ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77909	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club, I asked for a break to discuss the quality of life problem in Brod-Posavina County. Namely, you are witnessing these days of water pollution and the problems of 90,000 citizens of Brod-Posavina County. So not only the town of Slavonski Brod, but also the municipality of Podkkallje, Sibinj, Brod Column, Oriovac and Bebrin. A disaster to happen just before Easter, and a disaster that even today the inhabitants of our County of Brod-Posavina do not know what caused water pollution. In parallel, I also remind myself of the problem of air quality, namely the problem of polluted air in Slavonski Brod for nine years, it is known that the largest pollutant is the cross-Savia refinery in the Bosnian ship. A number of activities have been taken from our side, from the town of Slavonski Brod, from the county to determine the facts. Measurement stations have been set up, an inter-resor commission has been established, an intergovernmental body that is constantly meeting with BiH authorities. However, it has been over a year that the body has not met and there is no movement. It has been more than a year since President Crodux's promise to solve the gasification of the Bosnian Ship refinery and has been given the pipeline as a solution to the management and use of the private company Crodux, which is through the examination of the same, without having obtained prior consent or at least the public knowing whether they have been obtained and who has given prior consent to the use of this product pipeline and who is responsible for what happened because 90,000 people were left without drinking water. How is it possible that only 100, 200 liters or thousands of gallons [100, 200 litres] are poured out, it is not known how much is polluted within one day of the elastomeric wells that are nearly 900m away from the site of the incident, and how is it possible that within 2-3 days this pollution disappears from the system? And for this reason, the Croatian Peasant Club has asked for the thematic session of the Committee on Environmental Protection and on this speaker to be in the town of Slavonski Brod, to invite everyone interested in solving this problem in the boat and with air and with water, to discuss and to be responsible for telling citizens who caused this incident because it is in the domain of a terrorist incident, terrorist approach and performance, and there is no answer, and the citizens have the right to know why they were without drinking water at Easter Day and a few days after that. And it's not just citizens of Slavonski Brod, it's 90,000 citizens. Well, it is not the Mayor of Duspara, because of this, the enemy of this state and this government, on behalf of these same citizens alone, who is seeking answers to questions, and I will visit you that a month and a year ago I spoke about the water supply problem in Brod-Posavina County and asked for the regional water pipeline of Eastern Slavonia to become a strategic project of the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. For the reason that Brod-Posavina County, the town of Brod, citizens deserve drinking water. How is it possible to solve the problem towards Vukovar-Srijem County and not solve it towards the town of Slavonski Brod? And this same water line potentially has capacity and is foreseen in the project itself that the Osijek-Baranja County is partly covered with drinking water because there are enough quantities and quality water not to be processed. And as it is possible for Vukovar-Srijem County to be granted a license to manage Sikirevci, and I will remind Minister Ćorić and Director of Croatian Waters that the Sikirevci are located in Brod-Posavina County, and the law says that the buildings built in that area must be transferred to local self-government units or water suppliers from that territorial unit. How is it possible then that there is a water line Vinkovci, not a waterway boat or a municipality of the area of Brod-Posavina County? Why are we less valuable than Vukovar-Srijem County and do they have the right and the citizens of the Ship to drink water? And they're gonna run out of drinking water this summer because... hasn't changed the filters,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sufficient amounts and leaks over 50% through the net. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The water must not be collected to the citizens, and the citizens must have drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77910	Thank you. This is what we're done with today's free speech. So we pick up at 14 o'clock. Thank you very much. It's 13, 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77911	The club of representatives of HSS respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77912	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, on behalf of the HSS Club, I wanted to talk about the problems of the economy, as some say the unexpected decline in industrial production. It is not unexpected for us because this is the fourth time in a row industrial production in the Republic of Croatia is falling by 4.3%, and compared to March it fell in March 1.7% compared to the previous month. This is a weaker data than many economic analysts expected, and our government, or finance minister, who announced growth at an annual level of 2.8%. Will that trend continue? Does anyone here care about this information? The finance minister boasts of good budget filling and surplus in the budget and that we belong to 12 European countries that have achieved more, but why and what does it seem that industrial production does not fall rather than grow? Prime Minister Plenkovic says it is nothing unusual, the finance ministry will analyse the data. Maybe it's related to the situation in Petrokemia, Uljanik and other companies. And we have just warned from the HSS that we must protect domestic production, we must protect domestic jobs and invest a lot to preserve companies that are still largely or partly owned by the Republic of Croatia. And then I said that I was unclear why Djuro Djakovic's group was removed from the list of companies of special interest for the Republic of Croatia, without clear criteria and not respecting everything that Djuro Djakovic means for Slavonia and Brodo-Posavina County. And here they showed data in the first quarter where they made total revenues of 134.6 million kuna, which is about 9.6% less than in the quarter of the previous year. I repeat this question again, what about the restructuring and financial consolidation of this group that started in 2014 and should end this year? What about contracting jobs because we see that in public procurements where the state rules state-owned companies this company doesn't get jobs? What about the new employment promised in this company? Are we still going to have to fire workers and special vehicles from other companies? What about the growth of wages that also through this financial consolidation promised? How to ensure the long-term growth and development of this company that is important for the economy of the whole of Croatia and then for the Brod-Posavina County? And at the state level, we have an industrial strategy, but it is questionable whether we are carrying it out and how we see it, and this decline in industrial production says that we did not do what was expected of us, is meant by the government of the Republic of Croatia and the resolution ministries. Analysts expect drivers of GDP growth in trade and tourism activities. We at HSS say that we cannot and must not focus on tourism and service activities in the long term. We must all be concerned about the decline in industrial production, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, the economy expects us to do so, and especially the rapid reaction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And Mr. Juncker says that the continuity of funding should be secured from day one because our future cannot wait, thinks of Europe. Can we wait in Croatia? I don't think so, because priorities must be strengthening the market, the economy, helping to recruit and better educate young innovations and the development of digital society. How do you stop moving out of Slavonia without production, without jobs, without higher wages? How do you get young back to the Republic of Croatia? And to make a joke, they say in Slavonia only Klepetan returns to Croatia or Slavonski Brod to his nest. How are we going to get the young back to Slavonia without new jobs and without support from the economy and without investment? And this is because today is the day of the city of Vukovar, and the day of the city of Orahovica, I congratulate all the inhabitants of these cities their day. And I call on the government to congratulate them with new investments, new plants and new jobs and good wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77913	I thank my colleague Davor Vlaovic. With this, we've exhausted all applications for a representative club position. I would only ask you respected colleagues and colleagues to fill out the application form in front of the plenary hall so that they can apply for the presentation of the position.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77914	Next, on behalf of the HSS representative club, a respected representative, Mladen Madjer, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77915	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Although here is another shortfall in the Rules of Procedure that the Article 249 in which it says that Friday goes after the vote... Since there's no vote today, I asked for a break at 1:00, well it wasn't allowed, so that's the lack of this Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I asked for a break on behalf of the HSS Club to talk about the regional garbage dump Pishcorns. So Piškornica is a company that has recently become a synonym for money extraction, waste management, location in Koprivničko Ivanac in Koprivnica-Kristevnica County of Piškornica... It was supposed to be a regional waste management centre in northwestern Croatia, and unfortunately it became a mega dump and a hill to hold future ski races, we want slalom or giant slalom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So with greed there goes pollution and carelessness. The 2014 environmental permit provides for a maximum of 419 thousand tonnes of waste in order to increase that amount to 676 thousand tonnes only in the draft new environmental permit that is not yet in place. So far, 550,000 tonnes has been delayed more than allowed without an environmental license. Because it deals with waste management without obtaining a prescribed permit against Piškornica, the resolutional disposal of the indictment proposal, the division of inspection administrations, the affairs of the Ministry of Environmental and Nature and the competent authorities are aware that things do not apply in Piškornica. Now to relate to one big bust, which is the former head of the sanacija dump of Mladen Jozinovic, who founded the daughter of Piškornica's financial dump in 2014. The company is registered under another number and in another commercial court and is being deposited with waste and profits. In 2016 alone, the profits were 10 million kunas with another 6 million kunas asked for by his associates is enough for bonuses that Mr. Mladen Jozinović paid for. Piškornica, a recovery dump does not work according to the law, and from this payphone I have warned about it and asked for the shift of the former director, and here is the real deal, and there has been a shift from former director of Piškornica, but I wonder what about the legal process, fake diplomas, bonuses, where the money has been illegally drawn and will Mr. Jozinovic agree on it? What about the application against former Director of Piškornica Mladen Jozinovic, who continues to enjoy the fruits of allegedly hard work? Also, Mr. Jovanovic stated in his résumé that he was a dipl. ing. Faculty of Transport and Traffic Sciences in Zagreb. However, based on an insight into the archive, it was found that a person named Mladen Jozinović had not graduated from the Faculty of Transport Sciences of the University of Zagreb, also said in an official reply sent by the university to a journalistic inquiry. In addition to the bonus that I did pay myself, Jozinovic seemed to have been employed with medium professional equipment, and received a salary for someone with high professional training and had the use of an official car for 24 hours. Why do you close your eyes to corruption, crime? Why was Jozinovic removed if there were no irregularities in his work? At what stage is the legal process with Jovanovic, what about the indictment? Where's the money, as they say in the people, where are the money, illegally extracted from the Pisces? Is he in a private pocket or was he spent on someone's political campaign? Is Jozinovic's best man Darko Koren, the mayor of Koprivnica and Križevci County overseeing his work as president of the Piškornica Assembly? How is it possible that the presidents of Mr. Koren's Piškornica Assembly knew no irregularities about the work of Jozinovic and we all knew about them and the competent institutions knew the same about them? If Koren did not know, was he responsible and conscientiously acting in his office? Furthermore, why is the county HDZ not being declared around Pishkornica and why is it not in his interest to clear up the situation with Pishkornica? Probably also the mayor, County HDZ President Darko Saturday may be the same as Koren's best man, so he does not want to make a statement about it. There is enough abuse of Piškornica for the benefit of individuals and at the expense of the health of Podravci, and therefore from this place I call on the state attorney, I call on the MUP to have individuals end up in these ways, only to take action because it is known where such individuals belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77916	Thank you. This is what we came to the end of today's work, and we will continue to work next week, on Wednesday, May 9th. We will start with a vote and then the first item will be the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Emigrants Queen, first reading, P.Z. No. 330. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted 13.30 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77917	We continue on behalf of the Club of Representatives, colleague Davor Vlaović, HSS, presentation of the position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77918	Thank you, Vice President. We asked colleagues and colleagues for a break on behalf of the HSS Club to discuss problems related to the announced new health law or health reform. And here is the introduction of the debate by Mr. Radin that no one in the Republic should be reduced to rights and, in parallel, we must not reduce the rights or the possibility of patients to available health care. The announced law has already been in public debate for months, I have already talked about this topic from this speaker and warned about some of the provisions that go towards not being at the centre of the event of man, that he is not at the heart of the patient and available health care, but with the proposed changes of the law heading towards large capital, that he is the most important profit and that patients, the poor patients who are many in the Republic, will not have equal access to health care. For days we have had letters, e-mails to the club and from the association of patients and from the doctors themselves who say react, the proposed law is not good, it continues to create a conflict between the patient and the doctor and even between the doctors themselves. One question is whether privatization of public health is a reflection of the unresolved conflict. Health tourism how to become a double second patient in its own country and a number of other memos. In fact, we have now, when it comes to primary health care, quite a well-organized system since Dr. Andrija Printar's in the homes of health, through doctors of family medicine, and why are we going now to violate that system that was good? He brought conflict to the doctors themselves. We have already suggested that a tool in health be awarded to those doctors of family medicine who remain in the health care system because the director himself cannot reward those who work better, who work more and on the other hand have less income and wages than their colleagues who have gone to concessionaries. There's already been an injustice. We still have a private patient conflict because now, according to this new bill of law, every doctor of family medicine will be able to ask the minister and ministry to get private practice. But where's private practice? Not with his money, in his office, but on the public goods that we've all funded, which they've all equipped, here and now he's going to go about about 200 million kunas through medical medical care projects through the county, so he's going to get an ambulatory, he's going to get the equipment, he's going to get patients, and his only risk is that he's doing quality work. Of course no one, we at HSS are against entrepreneurship in health care, but not at the expense of the quality of availability of health care and not that it gathers the patient in the Republic of Croatia and will collect it because who will evaluate how many doctors of family medicine have performed in regular working hours and how many will leave them for out of working hours when they have the right to present the invoice, bill and immediately collect that service. Well, of course every doctor will go for a bigger one. And what is the additional problem, who will treat people in areas that are dislocated from the centre because all these doctors who will go into private practice will gravitate Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Slavonski Brod and who will treat people in Prnjavor, my Drežnik or any other settlement that is 15, 20 or 50 km away from the centre? He'll be out of medical care because there are already 14 teams of family medicine missing in Brod-Posavina County. What happens in a year or two or five? More or more doctors will leave the Republic of Croatia and will not be in these rural areas and will leave because they can't even get that clinic that will go into private practice because after retirement, this family medicine doctor can sell it. So we're making it impossible for poor families to educate their child to become a doctor to get an ambulance tomorrow and to be able to deal with providing health care for what he's been educated for rather than going outside of Croatia. The proposal is for the HSS to reduce the number of patients needed to 700 for these rural areas, now it's 1275. It's one of the models. The proposal is to be the same income as the one in the rural area and the one in Zagreb and Slavonski Brod. The proposal is to improve family medicine rather than reverse and keep the patient in the focus of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77919	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77920	Let's move on, now it's time for the House of Representatives Club of HSS, dear colleague Kresho Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77921	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. What's happened over the past few days can be characterized and marked with one single word, and that's a shame. I met a lady the other day or yesterday, specifically which I don't know, who came to me and told me you know all kinds of pigs we've seen in Croatia in the last 27 years, all kinds of affairs, but for the first time yesterday when those e-mails came out, so yesterday I was sad and on the edge of tears. I would like first of all to appeal to the MPs and MPs who are making up the majority at this point to read all these e-mails well again and try to see what really happened. And what happened in the HSS has been warned since the outbreak of the Agrokor affair, there has been an unprecedented robbery under the auspices and with the knowledge of the highest peak of the state or government of the Republic of Croatia, the prime minister himself. So he can't say anymore or he could never say I didn't know. He knew and he was basically the worst thing that's happened to HDZ in the last 27 years, and the competition was really big, ladies and gentlemen. If I didn't mention names now and didn't go back to the past, the great competition was to top all those who have damaged Croatia through HDZ I would dare say more than the Chetniks and Turks throughout history combined. That's what you did. That's what this party of yours did, which I will no longer call a party but a sect. And you HDZ MPs prove that you are not a sect that there are more crumbs and a speck of patriotism in you and you bring down this government, it wouldn't be the first time, call the election, because you no longer have the trust of your constituents or your constituents, let alone someone else. So give it up when you're so brave, when you think everything's okay, when the Prime Minister says there's nothing small, nothing happened, go to the election, and you'll see what your voters will tell you first, and then the entire public and all the citizens and citizens of the Republic. That's enough, it's really over now, it's election time, and I'm going to paraphrasing one of those parliamentary deputies he doesn't have and who said yesterday in the paper that he'd rather vote for HDZ than have a big coalition happen. Well, I'd rather vote against HDZ personally and against this government at the cost of never seeing the Parliament myself again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77922	On behalf of the Club of HSS Representatives, respected colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77923	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, on behalf of the HSS Club, we'll talk about young people, their future and ours. These days, however, the government shook over the Agrokor affair and advisers, dropped Martina, fell off Rumljak and everyone from the stress rulings. However, they should be even more stressed about young people, because of this moment fifty thousand young people who finish primary school and their parents because they too are under great stress, which school to choose, what interest to choose and how to acquire knowledge and skills that will tomorrow be possible to achieve a job in Croatia. In fact, every year about fifty thousand of our founders finishes primary school and is in a situation like this, and today we are talking about this because today the e- Consultation of the Ministry of Education ends on the subject of enrolment in high school. Unfortunately, this year there will be no 50,000 students but 47,647 students, which is 1,104 less compared to the previous year and 17 classes, respectively. It is a fact of silence, and at the same time it is said and announced the implementation of the reform of the education system that we all know is more fog and blurry to preserve the HNS coalition partner, and that is why they are in the government, and it is essentially political trade. Because education reform can only be carried out by satisfied teachers and teachers and teachers, only those in collaboration with other institutions and parents. And we know that for years they've been carrying the burden of the crisis, that their wages have been cut and that as such they couldn't be satisfied, and they're not today. On the other hand, the minister boasts the signing of a collective agreement with the trade unions by June 2022, they would say when it is signed so long that it is good for teachers, teachers and teachers, but unfortunately only symbolically increase the personal incomes of teachers and this extracurricular activity to work with children with greater needs, to travel on trips or to care for students for school work in difficult conditions. And watch out for us today we have 142 schools in Croatia that work under difficult conditions. The list included some schools closed a few years ago, so much for the up-to-date and good work of the ministry and ministry. And to make the absurd thing bigger, here's an example in Drnis where high school has conditions for increased income due to difficult working conditions, and a primary school that is 200 meters away. And what is even sadder is that we have 68 schools in Croatia that have closed their doors where there are no students. How do you change that? Well, only if we have one right approach to both young people and their families, but also to teachers. Because here I said that 47,000 will be enrolled this year in high school about 24% of high school, 41% in four-year vocational schools, 15.9% in three-year vocational schools, craftsmanship 10%, and medical schools about 2%. It's an enrollment structure since Stipa Shuvar. Has anything been changed in that enrollment structure? Now is the moment because the counties are waiting for the ministry and ministry's reply on the registration quotas and the registration structure to define. And our question is from the HSS and my question is whether parents, children, craftsmen, entrepreneurs are consulted at all. Is it even a climate that children know what occupations our entrepreneurs need today, how to acquire these knowledge, what schools, whether they have a future through these occupations? That's not what we're talking about, and we should talk about it. How can a teacher who has 5 or 6 thousand kunas pay be satisfied today and not be stressed, how to give that child the right education if he knows that someone makes 250 thousand kuna in a week because he's in the Borg group. And we expect schools, teachers and teachers to create from our children tomorrow workers who have the skills to stay alive in the Republic of Croatia because if we do not care about young people, Croatia will be extinct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77924	I thank my colleague Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77925	The next Club of Representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative, Željko Lenart, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77926	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I'd like to talk about the Sisak-Moslavina County I come from. The second poorest county, among the largest counties in which the largest migration occurs, is the capital of Mayor Ivo Žinić Croatian Democratic Union, together with the mayor Roman Rosavec Croatian Democratic Community, Ivan Celjak Croatian Democratic Community and Parliament Speaker Ivanka Roksandić Croatian Democratic Union. The esteemed mayor behaves in our county as if the county had left his dad in his inheritance and destroyed all the democratic principles he should stick to. In Sisak-Moslavina County, neither the county's meeting areas can be obtained by county councilors. Information on the county and county companies and financial flows and all other related works in the county's counties, information simply cannot be obtained. A group of councilmen requested a large cabinet of Sisak-Moslavina County to hold their meeting and the mayor replied, here is the document, that it cannot be issued to council members for the meeting because it is necessary to hold meetings of employees of the county, mayor and mayor. That cabinet isn't always full and it's always easy to get it for meetings. However, the head of HDZ election headquarters, Roman Rosavec, is calling in the cabinet ahead of the elections for all the heads, directors, directors of the county companies and institutions. Not the mayor, the chief of election headquarters. So he can win, and county councilmen can't win. The mayoral council has requested data on deposits that Sisak-Moslavina County has in the bank, as well as all data on them. They're also told that I can't get information about it. Then they asked for information about... Zrin management co-financed by Sisak-Moslavina County, in which it stands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They couldn't get the data either. Then they're looking for information related to Dr. Ivo Pedisic, who is on the budget of Sisak-Moslavina County, is also in the county hospital. The mayor also responds with a signed document that I simply cannot get the information about it. In addition, they are looking for information on the community of Sisak-Moslavina County producers who have 4 shops co-financed by the county with nearly a million kuna. The mayor also documented them that I can't get the information. I hereby appeal to the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia, the president of HDZ, Mr Plenkovic, to try to talk to his mayor to stick to democratic principles. I also appeal to the Minister of Administration, Mr. Lovr Kustević, whom I will send to answer the parliamentary question whether or not the mayor behaves in accordance with the Law, Statute and others. We believe that this is a harsh violation of democracy, that this is a harsh violation of the rights of the county council, and that this is all reflected in the situation in Sisak-Moslavina County. The county from which young people leave, where there is no future, is a large-scale county whose agriculture is a very important activity, and to this day, the mayor has not paid county support for last year. Since there are obviously no funds since the funds are spent on all kinds of nonsense and self-promotion, the mayor behind whom always goes a few people who deal with his PR into the county account, i.e. at the expense of taxpayers. Here, I appeal to HDZ to try to put his story on the ground a little bit, on local self-government units, especially here in Sisak-Moslavina County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77927	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS, in the name of which will be spoken by the respected representative Kresho Beljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77929	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, today I will talk about one thing that is just happening in our home country, in another city, the size of our Croatia, in Split, which deeply disturbs me as a man, as a politician, as a father, as someone who is sensitive to injustice and I am sorry for people who think like the great majority of people in Croatia, no longer in politics. Today, I am ashamed to be a politician, although I have nothing to do with it, I am ashamed of it, because none of my colleagues and colleagues, in other parties, especially those who are in power, are ashamed of the implementation in Split over a 9-year-old child. Not entering the grounds, not entering court decisions, not entering the law, I appeal this way, above all to the minister of police, that the interior minister, who sent 50 police officers, should complete a nine-year-old child, ladies and gentlemen. I appeal to the minister of justice, who allows these things to happen, regardless of the law, to appeal to the child's attorney, who said the laws must be respected in this case, when the child is separated from the mother and is forced to refer not only to another state, but to a person who does not know him at all and against it, the system, or the institutions of our country have nothing. I call this way, I appeal, first of all, to the police minister, and then to everyone else, to worry, to think as people, not as politicians, not as machines, not as system people, as sheriffs, but first, as people, as a person, we all have families and hope that we all have a family, so that we all feel that this is happening in our vicinity. After all, how does a nine-year-old feel, who, by our laws and institutions, no one asks a question. Can we all, wet our forces together, first of all, who are responsible, who have the responsibility to prevent this obvious injustice, so much as it was in accordance with the law or law or not, but human injustice, God's injustice, Christian injustice, if you want to prevent it, and that for the sake of the child, all of this is being extended together during a time when the possibility of a child will cease to suffer seriously. The last sentence, the judge asked for the opinion of a psychiatrist, so the nine-year-old had to go to a psychiatrist, the psychiatrist made it clear in his opinion that any stress could be fatal to the child's life. And when that opinion came, the whole system was deafened, simply deafened, so there is no link in that system, I repeat, by one minister, another minister, police as such, defenders for children, us here, knight of the Croatian Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So isn't there anyone who could prevent this in the interest of a young human life, I say, independently, about justice, about rights, regardless of anything, whether we can prevent the human tragedy of a human being who, at nine years of age, is thinking very hard, which system, thoughtlessly with thousands of links in this whole system, is just today how things are irretrievably destroyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77930	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77931	Let's move on, club representative of the HSS, respected colleague Mladen Mader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77932	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to talk on behalf of the HSS Club about the problems of kindergartens in rural areas. According to kindergarten standards, Croatia lags significantly behind the EU. The mangers go only 21% of children, well below 33% of the EU. In Croatia, 59% of children are included in kindergartens while in other countries it is well above 90%, but on one aunt comes from a 16-gauge and more than 20 kindergarten children. All the prescribed conditions have only unfortunately 17% of children. Unlike Zagreb, Istria, Primorje as many as 311 municipalities and towns, there are no mangers while kindergartens have no 146 local units in the most vulnerable demographic regions of Slavonia, Lika, Podravina, Zagorje, Dalmatia Zagora. Parents face major problems in how to take care of their preschool children. In the absence of institutional support, many families have decided unfortunately to go to major cities or abroad and leave rural areas, especially in view of the new regulations of amended standards for early and preschool activities, it is necessary to increase the number of breeders. An example specifically from my county from the small municipality of Djelekovec at the beginning of this year in kindergarten was an educational inspection, among other things there was a re-acceptation and it was ordered that the number of children in groups be in line with the state pedagogical standards. This resulted in a fine of 10 thousand kuna, article 22 of the children’s pedagogical standard prescribed by the number of children in educational institutions. Therefore, according to the current DPS, no deviations are allowed, no exceptions are mentioned, nor is the average starting point of children who are normally up to 20% lower than the number of children enrolled. In smaller areas, there is mostly one mixed kindergarten group from 3 years to school, and because of a small number of children, it is not possible to form another group. So today we have a situation that by order of inspection... only 20 children are allowed to enter, and unfortunately the municipality of Djelekovci has five children not enrolled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Knowing the situation throughout the country, which is very public and famous for all, it is rare that kindergartens strictly adhere to DPS, see only the annual plans of many kindergartens published on the Internet. We wonder if it's possible that it's always possible for a kid to train hardness, what if the inspection brings such a warrant for kindergartens to the Republic of Croatia? I want to make it clear that we're not in favour of crazy crowding and we really need to pursue the standard for both children and aunts, but the reality is that we're where we are, that we have limited resources. The time has come for us to have to fight for each child and, unfortunately, we will be in standard very quickly because of the increasing number of children. You have 25 children in the group, it's really not overcrowding, there were 23 to 25 children in kindergarten for years without any problems, especially when considering the average starting point which is also about 20% less than the number of children enrolled. What's gonna happen to these five extra kids? The hive is near Germany or Ireland even closer. Djelekovec will run out of 5 families with working budget loaders who may have a few more children. Unfortunately, the president has proposed a set of various measures that are all beautiful and wonderful, but I'm telling you, only this little change and addition in the DPS or the tolerance license to a maximum of 20% would mean more and make concrete and measurable benefits, and practically cost nothing. In rural areas, the challenge is to find a breeder, and soon it could become in all of Croatia, so it is unrealistic to expect that breeders will be hired, besides where to find him and who would pay him? Let’s not wait 2022 if five - year - old children are required to go to kindergarten and at the age of 6 to school. I repeat, we have over 4,000 unlisted children. The figure shows the kindergarten, and it must be much larger. In view of all this, and given the widespreadness of this problem in municipalities, it is necessary to introduce demographic measures to co-finance pre-school activity in rural areas, and we are not just thinking about building. Of course it's good to build kindergartens, but clearly it's a need for funding. Unfortunately, while there is no money for what is important and while saving on children, strictness is trained so that a million and 200,000 kunas are paid in the Koprivnica-Crysday County Mayor Koren is leaving for Kaliningrad, and the question of who financed.../The speaker has been turned off./... [[Intruder President: Comrade Major, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77933	The next presentation of the club's position has the Club of Representatives of HSS, i.e. Mr Davor Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77934	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, I will talk about current political topics and problems, one of them is right now in front of the Ministry of Education, the union protest, the rebirth of employees in Croatian education. Namely, employees at the Autism Centre, Goljak, Suvag protest the announced wage cuts. It's inadmissible and here's the HSS texting them that we're with them and that it's inadmissible to cut salaries to people who work in school, especially when they work with young people with special needs. Yesterday we were here and witnesses to the protests of doctors on Mark's square because they are dissatisfied with the proposed package of laws from the health area that we will probably get here in the debate next week, and from their loud, so to speak, the minister leaves the Croatian Parliament to adopt a final package of these health laws and transfers the ball to our assembly so that we can pass a fairer law both for doctors and for patients. We have talked here on behalf of the HSS several times about the poor and difficult state of health and have repeatedly stressed and stressed that it must be in the patient's focus of interest and that it must be in the focus of all of us and the interest of all of us equally available health care for all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, whether it is like this today, it is not. It is about the lack of a doctor, everyone knows about it, and I especially point out the lack of a doctor in rural areas, in areas where people are evicting and where the only way to keep them is to have available healthcare, with what we are constantly stressing, the job needed and adequate pay for their work. If there is no available health care, be assured that people in these areas will continue to move out. There are currently at least 14 doctors in primary medicine or family medicine missing in the area of the ship-Posavina County. What happened in the field? That largely grouped primary family medicine in cities and that care for health care in rural areas, in our municipalities and in our villages is mostly left to health homes. This bill further reduces the importance and role of health homes, something that was good and that worked relatively well in the Republic of Croatia. Most of these teams are in cities and we will find it difficult to get and attract a doctor of family medicine in the country because the fact that we already have too many patients who rely on one family medicine team and that simply a doctor does not have enough time to pay attention to each patient. And that is why it is necessary to get a doctor in the rural area to reduce the team, or the number of patients who must have the team. We've already said it's 750 patients and I think it's the only possible solution. It is not good that only health homes are left on them to ensure the functioning of health care and health care and holidays and Sundays, the holiday, and that the concessionaries will certainly not go to it voluntarily, but will continue to remain in their home health obligations. I have pointed out several times that the management of health homes must be given the opportunity to reward those who work, at this point neither these laws proposed by the package allow the director and the management to reward those who work well and to increase their wages, not only to doctors, but also to other medical staff. Health care homes are also mostly referred to as specialization. The ISO standard mainly introduces health homes. Private concessionaries still have the option with HZZO direct bargaining and feel free to decide whether to work on Sundays or holidays, holidays and the patient remains without worry, and we all pay those 15% out of personal income to the health fund and how to solve these problems? First of all, we've repeatedly pointed out from the HSS that we need to increase registration quotas to medical schools, it didn't happen. It should be possible for doctors to have higher salaries, to have equipped infirmarys, and what is most important is that each patient has available medical care and that it is focused on interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77935	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77936	And now we're going to continue with the agenda points planned for Friday. First wrong is: - Final proposal of the Cybersecurity Act of the operator of key services and digital service providers, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 320; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here's a five-minute break. Uh-huh, are there any interested in free speech? There is. They didn't tell me, they're here. We have two clubs, so I'd like a five-minute break to calm Parliament down. After that, we go with the free speech, when it's done, we go with this agenda point that I announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77937	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14:15 HOURS]] Now they're taking a stand on behalf of the club, the first to appear is the Club of Representatives of the HSS in the name of which they will speak the esteemed representative Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77938	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, all of you seven, as many of us as there are in this assembly, may not be as many of us, there are us, with the vice president, realistically 7. I'd like to talk today, Friday afternoon, about a big problem that's rolling behind the hill that's slowly passing through the shadows and St. Championships and some other spins, announced by the Prime Minister, about the collapse of the pension fund and Minister Pavić over a major robbery that will take place, i.e. Nationalisation of the second pension pillar. It means a very large amount of about 90 billion kn, which seems to have been spent long ago through the bonds of the Republic of Croatia, and which are now trying to take away the pensioners, who have been saving, i.e. employees, who have been saving for hard retirement days, because we know how our pensioners live today. This isn't the first time the pensioners have lost their money. Let's remember that the pensioner's debt returns, when they're offered opportunities, that if they take their debt immediately, that he's 50% reduced, and if he waits for a certain amount of time, and we know that the pensioners don't have a lot of time, and we don't have a lot of money to survive, so that they all take 50% of their debt. This way, where the second pension column is going to melt into the first pension column is for Agrokor and all the robberies, I mean one of the biggest robberies that are going on right now. I wonder if the HDZ gentlemen have any consciences, when these topics and things like this are happening, do they even think about having to do with their members, their voters, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are going to live far more miserable than they do today. Just because a large part of the population of the Republic of Croatia goes out of Croatia, because many have realized that they must probably go somewhere else to earn a pension, because it seems that in this way and in what is happening, the pensions in Croatia will soon be gone. We've got a new number of defense pensions coming up, honor to all the defenders, but I don't know who's gonna pay more, and we can see from what's right, that there won't be any pensions, which are earned through a variety of things. It's unfortunate that only 20% of pensions are earned in the real working life, i.e. that it was those retirement pensions, and the rest of the pensions were all according to some special regulations, for those who went into retirement. Too little attention about this problem that's very big, I can see that there aren't a lot of interested people talking about this, except some portals, who are trying to write about this and I don't know, I'm calling on the people of the Republic to finally trade, because if they miss it all out like this, then they didn't deserve it but to make it the way it is. For this reason, here is another appeal to those who drill into patriotism, who hold their hands on the heart, when the anthem plays, let the Croatian people remember, let those who dig in containers, let the people who should retire tomorrow, who will be either far smaller or may not be. It is clear to me that in this way it is trying to reduce the nominal public debt, so that the government can again borrow loans and that it can finance pre-election campaigns, social peace and buy votes. Well, all of you who agree to buy votes, shut up this problem, so be it in Croatia, and good luck to all those who have been saved in some countries outside of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77939	The next position on behalf of the club will be on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and will be spoken by the honourable representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u77940	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian nation, here last night we experienced a great, magnificent moment for the Croatian nation, that a small Croatia that produced a team made up of Croatian players, the victory of one England which composed its team with half the globe and all the former and present colonies. Why am I saying this? We all witnessed this last night, but this is a very important moment for Croatia because last night, who was driving through Zagreb, saw that the Croatian people were once again given hope and therefore should respect our team, should take off their hat and say "well done, you have shown how representing Croatia, how becoming the ambassador of the Republic of Croatia is best done". During these 27 years, this Croatian people have lived through the biggest robbery in Europe, in those 27 years this country has led HDZ and what I want to order from this pay phone that just colleagues from the HDZ sitting here, who on Friday are passing the laws proposed by the HDZ government headed by Andrej Plenkovic, look at these knights, who have shown how to defend Croatian dignity, how to defend the Croatian state and how to represent the Croatian people in the best possible way. During these 27 years in this country, we've made 100,000 arrests, we've made a state of religion, we owe it to everyone in the world, the people are digging through our cans and containers, and the other day we fell, according to the standard below Bulgaria, which was unimaginable for our spaces. So all those who have been through these 50 years or more than '45. Destroying these areas, which are still being destroyed today, should be asked what are these guys, what have the firemen told us through the entry into the Croatian finals. So they told us that if we did our best, and that's what they did, because that's what people, who have everything, and they pawned everything they make money with, they left their soul and body on the playground and they showed us that as a small nation, we can be winners, that we can lead the game too, that we can bring hope back to the Croatian people and that we can start this country. Unfortunately, however, there is one other part of the team, which has been thinking only about himself for 20 years, who did not mean the Croatian people, who passed laws against the will of the Croatian people. The team and the team, who thought they'd get rich, who, even today, came from this pay phone, to us from the HSS because we came in uniforms telling us what you've become Croats now. And the rest owe millions to the Republic of Croatia. Well, they're not ashamed. The honor of everyone in HDZ who fought for the Croatian people, I take off his hat and invite all of you who have the conscience, who have the will, to return to Croatia, where it was, where it deserves this people, to return its dignity, as the Croatian football players returned it last night. I call upon the diameter of Plenkovic, that with all these years that HDZ has worked only for its interests, i.e. Members, who only used themselves to their advantage, to play a mandate for the Croatian people. Only one mandate for the Croatian people, as our players did last night, as they did magnificently, headed by Zlatko Dalic and the professional team. Remember how they talked about that man, from the beginning, when he became a selector, and now everyone's licking and patting him on the back. Let's look at these people and make them our role model so we can. The same for you in HDZ to be a role model, so that you can, for one day, give up one term for the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78227	Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78228	Your Honor, Vice President. Here I am looking for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS to consult on how to conduct the session in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78229	Well, of course you'll get it. I'll see you at 16,29. It's 4:19 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78230	Here's your colleague, Whitey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS, we are looking for a 10-minute break to also consult on the new situation in connection with yesterday's affair. Although we talked about it yesterday, I was convinced that Prime Minister Plenkovic did not know what it was about, that it was a surprise for him, too, and we at HSS were convinced that Prime Minister Plenkovic would react and replace Mrs Dalic. Of course that didn't happen. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. In fact, Prime Minister Plenkovic stepped down with all his powers to defend the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Dalic, who designed this whole story about the Lex Agrokor and the 500m kuna robbery. So I think it's time to talk about it more strongly, and what my colleague Maras said, the electoral body, not only of HSS, of the SDP, but also of all the other parties, asks us for parliamentary representatives, we in the Assembly have been evaluated by very, very weak grades, and I think it's time to talk about it here, that it's time for certain things to light up to the end because apparently now after these e-mails that went public yesterday, that they've come up with a new robbery of companies that's been pumped by the state for many years, by various incentives, that concert has been created, and instead of being allowed to fail until the end, the state has re-interrupted. And this time it's more than clear to all of us why, she interfered with the fact that a handful of consultants could afford 500 million kuna benefits and I think it's a pigsty that hasn't been seen in Croatia for more than 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78232	Okay. We'll grant you a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78233	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78234	I would like to request a recess for the consultation of the HSS Representatives Club, given that the representatives of the HDZ who have come cannot refrain from speaking. We'd be consulting for 10 minutes and then we'd go to the vote, so we could discuss it afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78235	You got it. There you go. Just consult. I'll see you in 12 and 3 minutes. It's 11:00.53.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78236	Comrade Beljak, you have on behalf of the HSS Club the right to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of Assembly MPs of the HSS, I request a 10-minute break in order to carry out the security check of Mr Horvat's future minister who told the media yesterday or yesterday that he had a weapon, to be asked when the journalists asked him that the opposition was attacking him, he said he had a weapon, and I ask that we all withdraw together so that all parliamentary deputies would go through the metal detector, especially Mr Horvat, so that what is happening in New Zagreb where you have a shooting where Croatia under your authority became an extremely insecure state, where you have Split where every day the event of killing and beating up mob groups where you have a Cheetah group that can't possibly end, and apparently the shorts of all that water in this left or as you look, the right half of the Assembly where your parliamentary representatives sit. If you get in line one by one, the control through the metal detector will go very quickly, take off your watches, take off your belts, and the rest of us will wait for you at your clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78238	Now, a colleague from the HSS called, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78239	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm looking for a 10-minute break to consult at the HSS Club, on the question of LNG terminals, because we see that here we are with all this story and efforts by all of us to prove that the LNG terminal is not good for the Kvarner Bay or for the Republic of Croatia, because through the debate it has been seen that for many years it will not be profitable, and it will bring considerable damage to tourism in the Kvarner Bay. Recently, we had a show on one of the TVs where it was trying to bewitch the LNG terminal in Italy, all the piano it produces and ban access to that terminal, says that floating LNG terminal is not good for the sustainability of nature in the Kvarner Gulf, but it is also not good for Croatia, given that it is here and states, we are doing it for the sake of the northern countries of the EU that are supposed to invest some money in that LNG terminal. Since we have far cheaper Russian gas offered to us, if it may not be presented, but we are also offered a pipeline, we believe that this investment is not good for the Republic of Croatia and that we need our citizens as cheap as possible, and not this supply route that will ultimately be quite expensive, destroying nature. In Kvarner Bay is a cradle of tourism, it's Opatija, there's Lovran, it thinks we should give up this story and help these people live off tourism, because there are a large number of people living out of tourism, and this LNG terminal is obviously going to live on by some group. Is there a group of borgs or what it's called, that pushes this story, I don't know, but unfortunately, when time shows, then it's too late for all of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78240	Thank you. Stanka, we will proceed at 12.12 hours. It's 12.02 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78241	Here you go. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78242	Your Honor, Vice President. I'd like to request a recess for the club's consultation. I can, I can't. I raised my hand but you didn't see me. [[Attack Radin: But you can't before.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78243	I haven't seen your hand, but I allow myself to be shortsighted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78244	Your Honor, Vice President. I am looking on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club for a break of ten minutes to consult a little bit and on this subject, as here I am listening to the debates of the Clubs of Representatives, so here is my colleague Batinic, who said that there are positive demographic trends that people want to return from abroad to Croatia, but I am asking you, who today wants to return to a country where Judge Hrvoje Viskovic makes a verdict that frees Mr. Jakov Surać, although it is not a gentleman who beat up journalist Hrvoje Bajlu, not to mention that this Mr. Jacob, who was released, played football with our Prime Minister Plenkovic, did it affect...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78245	Wait a minute, you should limit yourself to the subject you're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78246	Dear Vice President, why are you interrupting me, I'm talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78247	I'm not interrupting, but I'd like to read the law we're discussing, can I? Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Housing Loan Subsidisation Act with the final proposal for a law. [[Intruder Lenart: You can.]] You can go on now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78248	Dear Vice President, in the end we'll end up with this, you've taken my time, and I hope you'll give it back to me. So, who wants to go back to the Republic of Croatia and I hear here debates that some say there are such trends in which these things happen, who wants to buy an apartment in the Republic, regardless of the 0% interest and maybe -1% because there is no legal certainty, there is no legal certainty, and that you will not be able to pay off apartments that buy and get loans, that someone will not remember tomorrow to break or change their law and change their terms. [[No, we're not.]] Here's the problem, and we're looking for a 10-minute break. Thank you very much. ... I think that's enough, but I don't think it was correct of you to interrupt me and that you killed the thought that I was about to say, maybe a little downplay that was supposed to be. [[- Intruder Radin, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78249	I'm sorry, but I won't stop you for 10 minutes, but I'll let you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78250	I know, Mr. Vice President, but there's no excuse when you're interrupting the hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78251	But look, we need to know about the subject. You're back on the subject later, and we have a 10 minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78252	But look, if things looked so tight, then the books wouldn't have 300 pages and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u78253	All right, all right. Ten minutes break, up to 12.52. It's 12.42 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79055	Honorable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. Good morning. We're going back to work. The first item on today's agenda is: - Proposal to launch the issue of trust Martini Dalic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Proposer: 37 MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament propose 37 representatives based on Article 125, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We will conduct the debate in accordance with article. 125th, 7th and 8. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The government was very clear about this proposal. I would ask the applicant's representative to further explain the proposal. On behalf of the promoter, a respected representative of Nikola Grmoje will speak and, as I understand it, my colleague Goran Aleksic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79056	The Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today's agenda is a matter of responsibility for the Vice-President and Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, Ms. Martine Dalic. However, two days ago, a full year was completed since the start of the extraordinary administration procedure in the Agrokor concert, so it seems necessary to remind what was going on to put Minister Dalic's role in the right context. So let's take the turn. Agrokor has been perceived for many years, almost since the very beginning in the Croatian public as a concert on whose success and survival depend directly on the prosperity of the Croatian economy and even Croatia as a whole. The Syntagma that Agrokor is too big to fail or that the state cannot allow Agrokor to disappear we have heard countless times. How did Ivica Todorovic stand out from the other tycoons? He chose a slightly different model of development than the common model in Croatian conversion and privatisation. In the construction of the concerts, he carefully chose the best quality Croatian companies, and he generally bought them outside or after the conversion or privatisation process. Of course, such a choice was not conditioned by its good taste, but by those who decided on conversion and privatisation. And even more to those who financed such acquisitions. No affair, like the one with the disappearance of large quantities of wheat from the state supply, has damaged the public image that Agrokor is doing a good and important job. In such an atmosphere, Todorovic enjoyed the reputation of the untouchable boss, and his influence extended beyond the economy and apparently spread over into politics. In addition, as the Parliamentary Investigation Commission for Agrokor, before the ruling extinguished it, Todorovic and Agrokor were from the very beginning intimately linked to the centres of political power in the Republic, and our politicians, government and ministers eventually danced as Todorovic played. Few were those public workers, politicians, economists or journalists who dared speak publicly of anything negative about Todorov or Agrokor, and write about him or contradict him. The authorities closed one, sometimes both eyes, and allowed Agrokor to exploit the three main levers of its growth and development, which are: the link between politics and politicians and their protection. Policy-related extensive financing from HBOR and commercial banks, sucking substance from suppliers' companies through a de facto monopoly position on the market. Along the way, one of the few measures the state took a few years ago to prevent the monopoly behaviour of Agrokora was to prescribe the longest payment deadlines for the goods delivered, which in practice, when Agrokor was simply not implemented. We all remember the enthusiasm with which we talked about the great success of Agrokor and the purchase from the second attempt by the Slovenian Mercator. How much agrocor’s hunger for liquidity also shows that Agrokor at one point crosses the exposure limits of all Croatian business banks. Excessive exposure of the entire Croatian banking system towards Agrokor and the CNB requires the suspension of the continued lending of Agrokor by business banks towards him. Then Agrokor draws from the oil exchange as one of the oldest financial instruments, once extremely popular in the former Yugoslavia, and in Croatia the factoring market is rapidly developing. Through the factoring of companies and through the famous regression bonds, with the help of the HBOR policy that continues to credit whenever it goes down, Todoric and Agrokor find a temporary solution to the seriously impaired liquidity of the concert. Of course, the situation described could not last forever. However, according to the current governor of the CNB, everyone knew everything. So there's no confusion, when I say everyone, I don't mean, of course, our finance minister. He does not know anything about the way Agrokor operates, as we are informed. When I say everyone, we don't think about Minister Dalic, because she's just been notified by Moody's agency. But let's let Minister Maric go back to Agrokor. During 2016, in particular 2017, doubts about the sustainability of Agrokor’s business have been raised. In particular, reports by international rating agencies have contributed to this, resulting in the downturning of agro-core rating and further growth of further borrowing abroad. Typical of the casino economy when it becomes increasingly clear that Agrokor is in serious trouble, Todorovic is turning to Russian banks. These banks in Agrokor poured loans totaling more than 1 billion euros. Thus, in May 2016, Sberbank, according to the published data, helped Agrokor to refinance the 350m-euro liabilities to grant a new loan and an additional 100m euros at the end of March 2017 to maintain the liquidity of Agrokor right in the days preceding the start of the extraordinary administration proceedings. Unfortunately, the matter is worse because of its dependence on a sick para-state system called Agrokor, the Croatian business community, even with all the hidden fears that this whole story will end up continuing to play by the rules that Agrokor's iron monopoly imposes, pulling a deeper and deeper part of Croatia's economy. And what was this government doing at the time? The government, like all those before it, has continued to ignore the elephant in the glass mill as a matter of principle, if we ignore it, it will pass by itself. In an interview with yesterday's, the edition of Ms. Dalic's Globus weekly said she first learned about the problems in Agrokor when it was too late. I quote: “First information that something unusual is happening in Agrokor has come to me as well as to everyone else. In January and early February, the agency MOODY'S reduced the rating and gave several warnings, it is not unusual that the rating of Agrokora was reduced at a time when the recession finally ended and the economy grew. It was a clear sign that something was wrong. And Mr. Todorovic himself talked about the scales of the crisis in the company in February and requested a meeting." What do you say to this quote? Economic doctor, experienced politician and state official, former employee of the International Monetary Fund, deputy negotiator of EU entry, experienced banker and president of the management of one of the Croatian banks knew nothing until January 2017. I will not say that this is not possible, nor will I say that Mrs. Dalic's statement is not true, only then she opens up other problems and raises other questions. So I ask, can Mrs. Dalic, along with all her professional, scientific and professional qualifications, be a minister of the economy if Agrokor is the largest business system in the country was not interested. If she was interested, and all that I had previously said in rough lines did not occur, the question is, what is the system of reporting in the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, or is an attempt to say that Ivica Todorovic and Agrokor were not close to this government. The fact is that MOST in its own way almost forced the government to deal with Agrokor in a way that was not usual until then, the engagement of MOST has provided financial injections that the state has been pumping up from time to time in Agrokor. Someone finally had to say enough throwing away taxpayers' money. If we want to be honest and open, we'll admit that throwing taxpayers' money into Agrokor stopped MOST. The government only accepted knowledge in the threatening collapse of Agrokor when Ivica Todorovic came to the government and admitted that he needed serious money, no longer for capital investments and unstoppable expansion, but for mere survival. From that moment on, the government could no longer continue with its old policy towards Todorovic and Agrokor, and even less could ignore the problem. The President of the Government's solution was left by Martini Dalic, a solution advocated by Minister Dalic, which meant the adoption of a special law of its own hybrid, insolvent law under the name of the Law on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in commercial societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. The law in the public became known for its short and striking name, lex Agrokor. As far as this law is concerned, there have been a number of doubts in the past year. For months, the public has been asking a very simple question about who the author of lex Agrokora is. For months, the media has been publishing the indications that authorship was prescribed to Mr Ramljak, later to an extraordinary commissioner, various law firms, unnamed consultants, etc. Let us remind Mrs. Dalic and the government consistently refused to answer this question. And then at a recent meeting of Mrs. Dalic's Committee on Economy as a gun, she fired that she, except for that author, Lex Agrokor. I will try to quote the words of Minister Dalic, who said that all the provisions of the law were written according to her words, by her order or controlled by her. I think we all have to confess to Mrs. Dalic for the courage she took over by law and credit for his effects. I hope he will also bravely accept responsibility for the failures in that law. I will remind you of respected colleagues and colleagues to applaud these merits of the last days, the Croatian public claps in enormous quantities. Strong amounts of time and media space have been spent telling us that the problem has been solved by this government's determination and knowledge, work and courage over the past year. Agrokora's creditors have agreed, just a little more boring administration and we're moving on. All of how countless times it stands out without any expense for Croatian citizens and state budgets. After all this noise, after sleepless nights and numerous PR experts and directly launched media messages, the question remains why some remain after a good and happy completion insists on the shift of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Here before further explanations, only one sentence on a subject that does not suffer any delays. The plan proposed by the government's stock commissioner of existing shareholders will wipe out those shares, a package of 19,000 and 500 shares of the White Government, and give to the military disabled and members of their families. It is unacceptable for the Republic of Croatia to get rid of these worthless shares in such a way as to assign them to the Croatian Military Disabilities of the Homeland War and the families of the deceased defenders as it was done at the end of March this year by the Centre for Restructuring and Sales. That is why I am asking the Prime Minister and the Ministers of Defence and State Property to immediately suspend such practice of transferring the loss of the state to the disabled and the families of the dead and that all those to whom such shares have been allocated after the Lex Agrokor are properly depreciated. But let's go back to the reasons for Vice President Dalic's impeachment. During the development of Lex Agrokor, Vice President Dalic and in a conversation with me in the government, everyone, so I think they remember both well and the prime minister and vice president of the conversation refused the constructive proposals offered by MOST at the time. For example, when we proposed that Agrocorom be managed by three commissioners, so collectively extraordinary administration. Minister Dalic didn't want to hear about it. And today, we're wondering why she turned down that proposal. From today's perspective when we know what Ante Ramljak was doing there, the answer is why such control mechanisms in the work of the extraordinary administration are being rejected. So a few months ago, colleagues from the SDP indicated that lex Agrokor was made missing. Although the law - making model was served by Italian law, so - called law. The law on parmalate author Dalic missed out on the Italian example to transpose provisions on preventing conflicts of interest that would prevent Ramljak's marifetluke. We could say it's about ignorance or accidental failure, but it's impossible for us personally to believe it. Such failures compromise the purpose and intended goal of lex Agrokor. As time went by and how time showed similar gaps in lex Agrokor there was more. For example, the provisions relating to new funding to us at the Most as the government's partner at the time were shown completely different from how they were applied in practice. While he was finishing up the Lex Agrokor, there was no talk about what happened. Roll up. The Croatian Parliament adopted lex Agrokor in early April 2017 and the extraordinary administration procedure began on 10 April. One of the first decisions made by the extraordinary commissioner was a decision on the selection of advisors of the extraordinary administration. According to available information, Commissioner Ramljak then announced an international invitation to tender, which has been reported by several respected companies with references to perform such complex advisory work. Some of these companies have had very serious references in international frameworks, but have been present and engaged in various jobs in Croatia for a long time. Some of them even had registered branches in Croatia, and were teamed by domestic experts who know Croatia's opportunities well and the Croatian legal and economic system. But Ramljak decided instead to hire AlixPartners, an advisory company that was not registered in Croatia at the time of the engagement. This indicates that it is a consulting firm that does not have experts who know the economic and legal framework in which Agrokor is created and in which it operates today. Given that, according to Lex Agrokor, President Dalic's consent is a condition for the appointment of the advisers of the extraordinary management decision on the engagement of the AlixPartnership, the extraordinary Commissioner Ramljak could not have made it, or could have made it only and exclusively with the prior approval of Vice-President Dalic. At the time of conclusion of the contract with AlixPartners Vice-President Dalic, she had to be aware that an advisory company that does not have a branch in the Republic of Croatia and which has not done similar jobs with us until then cannot do the job on its own and without the help of Croatian subcontractors. The comparisons for yesterday were made by the government on the engagement of INA advisers. From the session, or it was the day before yesterday, we could hear from the cabinet's session a relatively extensive explanation of how many advisory consortiums participated in the competition and especially that the basic condition for participation was to meet the conditions so-called. technical skills. So the competitors had to prove that they had references, personnel, knowledge and experience. How is this same technical ability evaluated when selecting a consultant from an extraordinary administration and is it even evaluated? Of course, of all possible subcontractors on the Croatian market, AlixPartners chose by chance the very Texo Management company in which Ante Ramljak was employed. According to the information available, the contract between AlixPartners and Texo Management was concluded on 25 April 2017. At the same time, Ramljak and Texo management did not pay attention to any elemental decency, so Ante Ramljak as an employee of Texo management was cancelled a few days after the contract for subcontracting advisory services was concluded. These events in the Croatian public have been relatively undetected. At the time, the public was occupied by the government crisis, then local elections, and the Croatian Parliament had not worked for more than a month. The government and Minister Dalic did not react at the time. Today they claim it's none of their business, and they'll probably say they didn't even know it at the time. So the government, Prime Minister as well as Minister Dalic, had a collective syncope that lasted until February 2018. In the meantime, they didn't even read the paper. For example, in November 2017, Special Commissioner Ramljak submitted a regular monthly report with a list of advisers, and Ante Ramljak conveniently censored this report by covering up the names and subcontractor companies. The unfortunate circumstance for him is that one of the media portals of those days published a full list of advisors uncensored with a list of subcontractors on which Texo management was clearly highlighted. But as I was saying, obviously in the government they don't follow the media, so they haven't even seen this news. But what was not a problem in April 2017 or in November of the same year became a problem in February 2018 when Ramljak's conflict of interest was learned. To repeat, Texo management based on the contract was to receive a total annual fee of around 12 million kuna, which is about 230 000 kuna per week and over 30,000 kuna per day. But as we were assured in the midst of an affair with advisory fees, it was a renowned consulting firm. So well-reputed that financial reports show that this reputed company in the market in one year can't make a million kunas regularly, but that's why its one-year job in Agrokor is worth 12 million kuna, smart enough. Here today, we must be precise and clear, the Prime Minister has left the responsibility of Minister Dalic to resolve the crisis in Agrokor. From the very beginning, even before the lex Agrokor Martina Dalic was brought to the government by Anta Ramljak as a person who was supposed to help the government solve this big problem, and Ante Ramljak was a person of her personal trust. She was his political sponsor, and he used his position as an extraordinary commissioner to hit a company where he had previously been employed. That Ramljak had scarred the Prime Minister when he sent a message that the extraordinary commissioner no longer enjoyed his trust, which is why Ramljak eventually resigned. And where is Martina Dalic in that whole story? It is her responsibility that she did not insist on preventing or at least removing conflicts of interest, allowing the text of management to be hired, she allowed the compromise of the entire extraordinary administration procedure in Agrokor. That is why it is now time for all of us MPs to show the public that such expensive mistakes cannot go unpunished. It's time to show that each of us has a part of the responsibility that needs to be taken over. The debate today as well as the vote of confidence, Minister Dalic, will also show how we treat the conflict of interest. Whether conflict of interest is something we want to spread, help, or encourage, or as a society, we have matured to deal with such harmful phenomena. In this context, we who have applied for the recall of Minister Dalic propose to accept it and thus send a message of zero tolerance towards conflict of interest, clientelism, political corruption and any other harmful phenomena that destroy our society and rejuvenate it. The responsibility for that is on all of us. In doing so, I would also like to add something that may be extremely unconventional and unusual to this High House. I will say it quite frankly, we are aware that the current relationship of power in the Croatian Parliament is what it is, we are aware that when a colleague Zekanovic came out of the ruling majority that he flew in from his colleague Hrelja. We are aware that Mrs. Dalic enjoys the protection of the parliamentary majority, but we do not think that what we do is in vain. On the contrary, we think that this is just one in a series of discussions that we have had so far and that we will have in the future on the topic of Agrokor. Let's just wait for the extraordinary administration procedure to be completed. We all hope in a positive way for all interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79057	Here you go, pal Alexic. Now it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79058	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Here in the impeachment proposal there are some other problems that Croatian citizens have with public figure Martin Dalic. I'll talk about the public person Martina Dalic, I won't talk about a private person because her private person is irrelevant. I even like her private person. I did until I knew her at a distance she wasn't nice to me, but in conversations with her she's a pretty affordable person to me and I really don't feel her the way I used to. However, the public figure of Martina Dalic who laughs at all of us, who laughs at all citizens, when she comes to work, I congratulated her and I told her Mrs. Dalic your history in relation to Croatian citizens is negative, especially the debtors of the banks look very negative, but I hope that your negativity will turn into something positive by working in the government. But it didn't happen. This cannot happen because Martina Dalic is an extended arm of the banking system, she is a banker who does not respect the rule of law and is not interested in the rule of law. And there is a protector for Prime Minister Plenkovic who is a lawyer, who also does not respect the rule of law. So it is sad that the government of the Republic of Croatia, which is supposed to protect the rule of law, is trampling the rule of law into the mud. That's very sad. What's this about? Last year, I proposed a law that would restore the debtors to the illegal conduct of Croatian banks by means of an out-of-court transfer. Since we have a collective judicial verdict, since we have a powerful private court practice, all of this is explained in the proposal, it could very simply have been carried out in action, very simply. The law was also proposed by the Ministry of Economy, which was responsible for this law, which were amendments to the Consumer Protection Act, rejected my proposal with reasons which are mostly bureaucratic in nature, and are not materially legal. So the public figure Martina Dalic continued to work for the banking system, and against Croatian citizens and against Croatian citizens for a complete Croatian democratic community, so they work for corporations, work for private interest, do not work for the interests of Croatian citizens. The second thing I resent for Minister Dalic is that, on the request of the Association of Franks to propose an association of francs as a legitimate representative of citizens for collective protection of their interests in the field of finance, she rejects this request, that application with reasons again of bureaucratic nature, with arguments that are not based on the law, on the Constitution, but are based on some opinion of her people with whom she cooperates with the Ministry of Economy. What is it about collective protection of the interests of consumers of Croatian citizens, what is it about? It is that there are legitimately authorised prosecutors who can file a collective suit on behalf of consumers for the protection of their interests in a commercial court. Whoever presses such charges, he's responsible for what he's filed, he's the one who's gonna pay if he loses the court's dispute, the state won't pay anything. So if I press charges, I answer, I'll pay, I'll go bankrupt, the state won't go bankrupt. Why is he defending one association that has already shown that he knows that a lawsuit has been filed that has achieved half-success, and we expect full success in the retrial at the High Court of Commerce. I expect that a collective lawsuit brought by the consumer on behalf of the Franak Association is fully adopted because the Franak Association is not legitimate. So why is one such association not allowed to be the legitimate protector of the rights of collective interests of Croatian consumers? Why are Croatian consumers not seen in the Republic of Croatia in the way they are seen in the EU? Consumers are the cornerstone of the economy, and they're not corporations because corporations could sell to anyone without consumers. It is therefore the EU court that is on the consumer's side and has already made a dozen judgments that are all in favour of consumers. I must once again say that Minister Dalic, because the extended arm of the banking system simply does not want to do what a sovereign official should do. We are not a sovereign state, we are not, because we do not show our sovereignty in the way that we should show it, as one Germany shows. In Germany, they found that the bank's entry fees were illegal, and Germany then solved it with automatic, we're going to the banks, pay the money back to the people. The banks still took Croatian citizens with illegal interest margins which did not agree with them, so the banks took Croatian citizens and took them to Croatian citizens thanks to the CNB, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, primarily to such people as Minister Dalic and thanks to the Croatian Parliament which does not accept solutions that are favourable to Croatian citizens, and are based solely on the rule of law. I don't ever say anything here, I'm only into arguments, I'm just interested in arguments. I'm just saying what I'm saying, I'm not talking about... I'm not talking about some conspiracy theory, I'm talking about a powerful case law. So, my people, is it possible that in the Republic of Croatia where it has been rightly ruled that banks have robbed 200 thousand people with illegal interest rates, is it possible that the Croatian state cannot pass a law that would allow citizens to get their money out of court? Because Minister Dalic prevents such a thing, I am for her impeachment and I appeal to all of you to call her off because she doesn't belong here. She doesn't belong in public life at all, she needs to deal with the private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79059	We have five replicas, four for a respected colleague of the bush and one for a colleague of Alexic's. First up, buddy Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79060	Thank you very much. We can see that there is talk of the successes of Agrokor and Mrs Dalic, and we remember that we have opposed the amendment of the concession law that concession law remains for those who, such as Agrokor, remain a concession law in the restructuring process. It just happened when it was a crucial phase in the restructuring of Agrokor. Do you think that was fair? We pointed out that springs like Jana water would go into the hands of a farmer who knows who. Gentlemen who voted, you made it possible for the Croatian national treasure and interest of this concession law to go into who knows whose hands. Water, springs, agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79061	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79062	Dear fellow Bull. It is clear that the state or government does not have any strategy in managing the huge surfaces of approximately 45,000 hectares of agricultural water source, it says enough that the government imposes in public space or prime minister of ideological wars. And when Agrokor is mentioned, it's just a deal. Screaming from the front pages of our daily papers that are also putting together some PR promotion jobs for certain ministries as Agrokor was saved. For whom is he saved, who will manage, whom will these agricultural surfaces belong, what will happen in the perspective? We don't know that, we'll just see it, but this is just one spin that was thrown before this recall by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Dalic as if something had been achieved. We all know that the goal was to restructure in a year, and of course we don't have any drafts, and that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79063	Thank you. Second replica of the esteemed colleague Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79064	Dear Mr. Grmoya. In the Parliament these days, we hear that the success of running the process in Agrokor is measured by Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic, also by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic as he is today in the account of Agrokor. So Maria Jelkovac from HDZ mentioned that in April 2017 there were 6 million, and today it costs a billion and a half million. Six kunas, even better. And today it's worth a billion and a half. So I'm interested in how you Mr. Grumoja interpret that the success of running a company is measured by how much credit you can get from a bank or funds, not by how much you earn, because I think the public needs to know that these billions and a half kuna on the account is the rest of the credit raised by the former commissioner in June 2017 that's not earned money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79065	We will welcome students and students of the Center for Education and Education Slavaj Raskaj, welcome... Here you go, now. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79066	A fellow Petrov, boasting that success is measured depending on how much you are in charge, is not a novelty if we look at the politics of the Croatian governments so far. So they just kept going the way they were. It's interesting how these certain papers write about this great success, I find it all very nice to look at, so here we could say, now, we can see, it's written about Ivica Todorovic, kissing the bull in the horns, picking beautiful apples, now just some other people bull in horns and picking beautiful apples. I'd just like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79067	3rd replica, dear fellow Boric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79068	Thank you very much. You have not brought Agrokor to bankruptcy, it is visible these days, how serious you are accessing this recall, 6 of the 37 signatories attend you in this assembly. And third, you did not mention in a single word the point 5 that was very important to you, the Vis Viva project, the expert opinion, 3 Ministers, Dobrović, Prlje, Romic, gave a positive opinion on the project, so I do not know what to say. We had a politician in the Primorian County who unfortunately is no longer with us, Mr. Bebic, who was called the Kvarner bomber. I, simply after your opening presentation, can call it free, another chore from Neretva, which many will be fenced during the day and say they were seduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79069	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79070	Dear colleague Bačić, I didn't even think that you would pull, or, Boric, well, you always, you two always build the patches, so I know how to mix you up. So as far as Peru goes, all the committees remember the reaction of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Dalic to his colleagues, Bulja, her advocate for the project. As far as you're concerned, the Justice Minister is giving an opinion on certain property legal relations. The project did not become strategic, the project did not become strategic, so while the Bridge was part of the government, it was pure untrue. The project advocated in public its statement by Minister Dalic means the Deputy Prime Minister so it is quite clear what it is, Mr Boris, and you can outwit yourself. And as for the Cork from Neretva, we'll see in perspective, so everything we've been saying in the end has proved true. You said from HDZ that Ivica Todoric was a great businessman, so now you've changed the story.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79071	Thank you. 4th replica of the esteemed colleague Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79072	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed counterpart of Grmoja, your 23 minutes of exposure, listing, dating, the history of Agrokor, represents the outpouring of the gap, envy and jealousy, which this government led with the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Ministers, has solved the biggest problem in the Croatian economy since the independence of the Republic of Croatia and in a way that this resolution does not cost a single government budget and taxpayers. However, in 23 minutes, you did not state a single reason, a serious argument, which is why the Croatian Parliament should resolve the Deputy Prime Minister. I expected, given the modesty of the article you sent to the procedure, that at least here you would give something more, you failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79073	Thank you. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79074	Dear colleague Bacic, I had no doubt that you would say something different, if I had said anything here, your answer would have been, exactly like that. So what I want to point out, everything that Most was saying proved true. About the responsibility of Ivica Todorovic, so you can't sell us the story you sell to the SDP, that SDP says what Ivica Todorovic writes on his blog. We were the first to question the responsibility of Ivica Todorovic, we opened the issue of Agrokor in the Croatian government, after leaving the Bridge from the Government we have advisory fees, we have a roll-up loan, we have all these affairs that have happened, which I have nicely emphasized in my speech, send people to me that the speech is very quality, I did not expect you to praise it. I think I'm well prepared for this debate, you didn't deny me, but you just said it was modest. Tell me what's not true, and then we'll discuss our colleague Bacic in an argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79075	Thank you. We are now going to a replica directed by our colleague Alexic, a respected colleague of Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79076	Comrade Alexic, you said in your debate that the Deputy Prime Minister does not work in the interest of Croatian citizens. Whether preserving jobs is thousands and thousands of jobs in the interest of Croatian citizens. That's probably what you forgot. With the preservation of economic and financial stability, the government's proposal, the legislative solution proposed by the government, also preserved social stability. I'm sorry you forgot that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79077	Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79078	Thank you. You see, because of Minister Dalic's policy, tens of thousands of Croatian citizens are leaving the country, because they cannot repay their debts because the banks have taken them away. So, on the one hand, something may have been preserved, but on the other hand, it favored the powers that had led Agrokor for decades, so that they would suddenly be enemies to those same people who had favored them before. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79079	Thank you. We are done with replicas, I will now ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Honored Andrej Plenkovic to further explain the government's testimony, according to the information I have, together with him and after him will also be spoken by Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79080	Good afternoon, thank you, beautiful President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Allow me in these 15 minutes, together with the Deputy Prime Minister, to make arguments on the subject of this motion for a no-confidence vote by Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic. First of all, a few opening remarks, Mr. Alexic, Your Honor, what you've been saying is not the subject of a non-confidential motion, so we won't even show ourselves because we can do it elsewhere and at some other time. As coordinated as you were on the occasion of your written request, it showed that that point of yours obviously fell off, so when it's inside, then we'll talk about it. As far as geography is concerned, it's a shame that you haven't asked Mr. Bulj here a little bit, he certainly wouldn't have made a mistake about what a river is and what isn't a river so we can see the difference between Peru and Cetina next time. As for the general remark, so I've already said in a debate that MOST has entered this topic in a way that connects Agrokor to HDZ. Not necessarily HDZ in these years and a half, but HDZ from the '90s to today. So, the basic framework because you have PR advisors who probably tell you and write is to connect HDZ to Agrokora and Ivica Todorovic. It's a frame, it's a frame of Mr. Grumoja, and we know it from the very beginning, and we see it every day, I think that that tactics was clear, but what's also clear, and you know it because you were in the government that this government and this HDZ can't connect with him or anyone else. You can laugh but you can't connect, you can smile. Just as the colleagues of the SDP last year were so eager to advocate against the law, they were eager to claim that we were protecting Ivica Todorovic, that as time drifted away from the cabbage and selfies, they were practically turning into speakers and literal copy-passes of his blogs, so it was your acquis in this topic. And now our acquis and our action since this is the fifth initiative in a year-and-a-half days to vote for mistrust with any of the ministers, which is why you're taking away both our hours and our energy and our elan and everything else, which is true, you can laugh, but that's the case. Surely Maras, your achievements have remained unsung as long as you left the good in the government during your term, but it's all good and it's all okay, laugh, laugh. All those suggestions have failed. You're going to ruin this one, too. So it was seen yesterday at the current afternoon when you can't say anything good out of madness because the process is going well, then you're also trying to find in something that's good at blaming the government or creating a general atmosphere of pessimism, negativity, niylism or anti-systemic actions, as individuals or individual parties are systematically doing here. And therefore this topic, it is good that it is on the agenda, that it is good that it is here, that we should discuss it and we must discuss as much as possible that the Croatian public sees exactly who has which agenda and who is who on the Croatian political scene, and that is why this week is very important. This is one of the most interesting I would say in a political sense, weeks we haven't had in a very long time. Now, why do I think we've responded to this crisis well? We have responded to extraordinary circumstances with extraordinary measures. We passed the law, there was Mr. Petrov, he participated in all talks until one on the making of the law, as well as his representatives who discussed how many others in the Most were familiar, knew colleagues here, were members of the government, so you were involved, you were involved and you were responsible for the legal framework. And there are no dilemmas here, you can say whatever you want today, you knew everything, you knew who would be an extraordinary commissioner, but you supported him, you thought he was the one and not someone else was supposed to be. And you know it very well, and it's important that the public knows it, that there's no subsequent reason to think that he's somehow imposed on you, on the contrary. We are now in a situation that the trade court has made a decision that the extended extraordinary administration is another three months, three months of time to perfect what is currently a principled agreed, principled framework of the settlement. And that's good and that's positive and that's how you should look at it. Everything we have done over the past year, and I will repeat this, has prevented a chain reaction to the collapse of the Croatian economy, our financial system, our system of supply in the tourist season, which was best in the history of Croatian tourism, saved jobs, 56 000 in Croatia and neighbouring countries, and we have prevented a parallel 70 bankruptcy only within the company and not to mention how many would be in all those companies that are leaning on the operations of Agrokor. So from today's optics, a year later none of these black hunches happened. It didn't happen because we set up a solid legal framework that allowed time to create new trust in the company's work, and this attracts new funds, so the new creditors gave money, time to restructure, time to adapt to all those who do business with Agrokora that they are also consolidated and to prevent the consequences of what would have occurred if we hadn't acted in this way. We kept the value. It's exactly what you were saying about the amount of funds in the account, from six kunas to a billion that are here today. This means that the company is liquid, that it can pay its obligations, pay taxes, pay within the legal time limit. The transformative effect of this Act on the business of the company itself, but on breaking up with bad business practices is more than obvious. And that's good and that's positive. And everyone who contributed to it should be happy. As far as this subject is concerned, which is obviously, in the end, the only issue in question and the only problem, which is the question of restructuring advisers, they were chosen on the basis of a public call, they were chosen in a way that they were in competition with several companies, all with certain references. A company dealing with such financial and business restructuring has been selected in situations similar to international ones with appropriate references. That company chose its subcontractors, those subcontractors had what she didn't have, and that's local expertise and they also helped make this job. In this process, if there have been certain irregularities, they are free to say, resolved at the time when the former deputy commissioner resigned. However, the process of restructuring, the process of reaching a settlement and the process of a solution was the key element we took care of. To consent suppliers, to pay small OPGs in full, and to achieve the result that the collection of suppliers in respect of old and border debt is in so many amounts that are practically incomparable in the comparative crisis situations of these scales at global level. It is difficult to find another example of restructuring where so many funds were received, I repeat 490m euros, plus 80 more years to come, in a way that not only did most of their claims manage to collect, but that what is most important from the government's point of view and the general interest have an economic future, have jobs, have jobs. That was the purpose of the Croatian state. There's no special purpose in protecting any person, any company. The goal was to keep the future, the economic future and jobs of people working in the Croatian economy. That was the goal, and that's what we did. Of course we're all going to have to learn some lessons together from this process. I agree with that. Perfect the legal framework, strengthen the role of supervisory institutions, prevent all possible legal and supervisory mechanisms of early warning systems of this systemic crisis. That's what we're missing. We talked, here's the former president of Parliament and I, so he came in with some information, and I asked him, "I'm sorry, how come you, how do you know that?" How do I not know that? I, as Prime Minister, had no information at the time under the normal reporting system. And I can't rely on towers. They can only rely on formal rights, clean checks, updated documents, institutions to which it is a task. And that's a fact. And we need to fix it. It's not a personal matter for anyone, let alone a matter of political volunteerism. So it seems to me that in this process now, since we have come to the situation that the whole process is before a successful conclusion, we have to say that we have succeeded in something that has been a major and risky and political operation and economic operation, however, we have succeeded in it. And what's most important and what would be very important is to understand people in the Republic of Croatia. The fact that in a company with so much debt, with so many problems, however, financial creditors were willing to give new money, they did not just send a message of confidence to the company. They sent a message to the Croatian state. They both sent a message to the government and vice-presidents of the government and economic and economic growth ministers and to raise degrees for credit ratings and reduce public debt and the general government surplus and reduce unemployment and increase employment. They gave a message to the direction we want the Republic of Croatia to take both politically and economically. And it's very important and it's all in the middle, he mentioned someone, campaigning for local elections, and the whole process afterwards. So it seems to me that today much less, with much less drama than it was a year ago, we can say that we have sent important messages, reacted responsibly, including you then as part of the ruling coalition, that we have implemented the way of restructuring and the way of stabilising the Croatian economy in the best possible way and that we will continue to do so, and that together we can fix what was less good. Given the circumstances, I think we have done all we can in good faith and that there is guaranteed both the future of Agrokor and the future of the Croatian economy and Croatian suppliers. And what's not good, we'll fix together in the walk and through the decisions of this High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79081	One minute and a few seconds, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79082	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has presented and reiterated all our objectives and all our tasks that we have set for ourselves and for which we have created a legal framework so that they can be realised and related to the crisis in Agrokor. Since this debate is about me personally, even though I'm not a friend, of personal training in public space. In light of the fact that a principled agreement was reached among the believers, yesterday afternoon at the Ministry of Economy, a meeting was held with representatives of union centres with union commissioners in Agrokor, to present the draft of this principle agreement. On this occasion, I received this T-shirt as a sign of attention and a sign of attention from the Belje workers for the preservation of workmen. places in the Agrokor system. [[Thank you, Vice President.]] I thank them for this opportunity and it is the greatest thanks for all these difficulties over the past year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79083	They'd say someone got a thong, that someone got a T-shirt. Now let's go to the replicas. The first is a mess, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79084	Dear Prime Minister, I read the article entitled “The State, instead of Todorovic, paid back the debts of Pic Vrbovac and Belje for 10 years. ” Namely, 2004. Todoric took over Pic Vrbovac for a total million kuna and that is the age of 100% of the shares. It should be said that at that time, Pic had 40 million kuna debts to the state and 207 million kuna on the basis of the loans the state provided guarantees. But what is it? At the end of that 207 million kuna loan he paid never, the state for the next 10 years actually returned all the loans to Pic Vrbovac and he actually took over for a total of about 41 million kuna, assuming that he paid back all debts to the state, which were not based on the loan. And now what's this about? After that farce with Pica, the state gives Todorov a loan again, that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79085	Thank you. It's over. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79086	And you see, Mr. Jandrokovic, this is your Rules of Procedure, where you give a minute for replication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79087	You'll have to adapt. The second is the honorary colleague Bernardic, please. Comrade Pernar, please, just turn the microphone off.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79088	He's an unfair Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79089	Dear Prime Minister, you have obviously forgotten that Todorovic was with you at secret meetings in the government. Obviously you forgot that Todorovic activated the law that you prepared for him, you obviously forgot that your advisor, a special adviser, was standing by Todorovic when he activated the law you prepared for him. And you forgot we were here four months ago. I personally warned 141 counselors and half a billion kuna fees to go to them. To put money in their pockets while the workers are out of a job. Then you closed, three months. After, for 15 days, you were gone, you studied the paperwork, and you pleaded guilty. You have replaced Ramljak, advisors and today receive compensations, workers are left out of work, and you are here today, protecting Maritna Dalić to cover their tracks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79090	The answer, to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79091	I don't know what my special advisor is, I haven't been able to identify who you think, meetings weren't secret, meetings were organised at Mr. Todorovic's request, here's Mr. Petorv, so let me confirm that you weren't in the middle of the night, they were in the office of the Prime Minister, I don't usually meet in the obscenities or in restaurants, I meet where my office is, because everything I do, I do in a way, that I can stand behind it today and tomorrow. And I'm defending the Deputy Prime Minister because she's doing a good job. Not just on this subject, but on other topics. The fact that you want to weaken the HDZ government, you see even Mr. Aleksic is a nice vice president of the government, it's one of the new ones on our scene, it's good, and I like business and professionally and with my work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79092	Thank you. Now it's your honorary colleague Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79093	Thank you very much, Mr. President, since it is a short period of time I will also use the pictures, because they say the painting is worth a few words and I will show you a few pictures for which Minister Dalic is responsible, which clearly connect HDZ and Agrokor and Texo Menagment and HDZ and Agrokor. So the first image 10.4. on the right is Prime Minister and HDZ Andrej Plenkovic, the picture is good, and on the left is the employee of the Texo Menagment. After that, a picture from the press conference, on the left, on the right, stands associate Borislava Skegra, on the left stands former employee of Agrokora, in the middle, up, look at you again. And in the end, what's most important, as many citizens believe in you, and as far as they trust us, the latest survey of cro-demoscopes doesn't support the country's movement, imagine.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79094	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Maras. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79095	I must admit you're the first man to show me so many pictures of me. It's never happened to me before in my life, and you're still saying it's a good picture. ... You can see how difficult it is to restructure Gordan. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, and it's good to adapt to the new rules of procedure, I like that, it's more dynamic, it's faster, it's better, it's more effective. The pictures are really good. As for this last one, unfortunately, it's your continuity. You think these polls were better in your day? We're gonna go back a little bit. Yes, they did, how much? 74. Since the atmosphere that is created and what I have said is the atmosphere of defitism, pessimism, niylism, it is also super Gordan. It's great. We're all in the same pot. And I don't feel it for myself, but for all of us. Think about what you're doing on that plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79096	Thank you. Now it's up to the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79097	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, not only does 77% of Croatian citizens not only support you, but you are also the most hated person in Croatian political life, your party no longer trusts you. Your political secretaries have turned their backs on you, so you're no longer able to lead your own party, so I'm really surprised where do you get the right to call on some legitimacy to lead the state? It is clear to you that not only do you no longer have the legitimacy, but you do not have the parliamentary majority, so it would be best to resign together with your vice president and a few other listeners together tomorrow and stop dragging your party and Croatian people into the corrupt mess you created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79098	Answer. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79099	You're always very truthful, Mr. Bunjac, and you can really enjoy your comments. It's obviously your main sport to read these same polls. As far as legitimacy is concerned, he's undeniable. Go back to September 11, 2016, and see the legitimacy there. As far as relations in HDZ are concerned, don't worry about the HDZ Living Wall. You worry about your concerns and you worry about what you look like and what your political goals and your political ambitions are. You are one of those who are defitists, niilists, anti-systemically-oriented, protesting, protesting, and there are people like you all over Europe today. I don't see you as my political ally, and that's why I understand your criticism, but in everything I do, I will always get much more support than you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79100	Thank you. Next is Goran Aleksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79101	Thank you. Unfortunately, Prime Minister Plenkovic, I have to agree with you, you're right. The opposition didn't prepare the material properly, I gave the Bianca signature and then after Bianca signed what we agreed didn't enter the file. Unfortunately, I can. But that doesn't stop me from talking about Minister Dalic what I was saying and I'll keep on saying and I'm aware that she'll remain a minister, there's no way to move her, but there's still that negative connotation. And soon followed by a new ruling from the High Court of Commerce, I will prepare the law again, but this time I will not turn to Minister Dalic, but I will turn to the Ministry of Justice, perhaps it is the right place for such a law, so I will re-propose what I have already proposed, but slightly expanded because I expect the high court of trade to rule that the CHF currency clause was also unfair and harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79102	Let's move on. Next up, dear colleague Nicole Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79103	Your Honor, Prime Minister. So as far as this outstretched hand is concerned, we're fixing the system you always have, and that's exactly what my speech was all about. That, thanks to the operation of MOST, there has been a repair of things in Croatia, but as always when it comes to a team that led a key role such as Boris Skegra, as it is now, there are always some tails left. We don't know yet what kind of work is being done around Agrokor and whether he'll be good, but what we certainly know is that we have tails. I don't know how you guys called those tails something, that they happened, you didn't even say irregularities, you used a milder word, I didn't catch it. But Commissioner Ramljak has been removed which shows responsibility, which shows tails around advisory salaries and everything that's been going on. And a fellow in the opposition said there's nothing I can do without some tails and that's what's wrong and what needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79104	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79105	Well, I'm glad you're ready to work with HDZ again, am I right? ... And in that sense, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But if something were to go better, then would it? ... Isn't that right? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So now you're denying yourself. Okay, as far as the reaction is concerned, I think she was clear, that she changed things and that it allowed the process to move on. And that's a fact. The only general interest of the Croatian state, Croatian economy, jobs in Croatia and their economic future is important to me all the time. All these goals in this process that we have with the extraordinary administration and restructuring of Agrokor we succeed despite everyone and everything, we succeed. Now, if that's what you're gonna be happy about, or if you're gonna be unhappy, that's different. We'll do anything to make sure there's no tails here as you call them, there's no tails.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79106	Thank you. Let's move on, next one's a colleague of the bush, please. Now it's my dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79107	Thank you very much. You told the Prime Minister there was no connection between the government and Agrokora and what was happening. Well, it's amazing that no one knows, here, Martina Dalic was the finance minister in the former governments, the banker, worked with Agrokor, so she doesn't know that 10 billion kunas without cover were in traffic, that it's allowed, she's working well with the CNB. So is it possible that he doesn't know that the incentives for the OPGs that were supposed to be the little OPGs went to Agrokor, that the full money was gone, so for agriculture and peasants he went to means Agrokor. And no one knew anything. So should happen to Bozo Petrov or someone third, come to you who were previously in the government and especially Martina Dalic, she knew everything, she shouldn't have said it, they knew the media, but it should have happened to MOST to come to you and someone said it was happening. Well, he knew everybody, keep quiet, they were your sponsors, that and that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79108	Thank you. The next replica is a respected colleague, Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79109	Thank you very much, dear Prime Minister, since you have stated that you are personally behind the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. I'd like one minute, if you can name the successes of the minister, the vice presidents who actually promise that bright future in Croatia, which are the successes related to agricultural production, industrial production, to prevent eviction, to create jobs that are not from contingents, these export permits. What are the successes that the vice president smiled on and that we can transmit as your message, here in one minute? Say, that's what the vice president did and that's better for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79110	The answer of the Honorable Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79111	Thank you very much, Mr. Panenic. And you were Minister of Economy, and I don't remember anyone singing your successes in a minute or an hour. What Deputy Prime Minister Dalic as well as the coordinator of our entire economic team and this is one of the stronger economic teams of any government so far in the history of the Republic of Croatia does, implements and participates in a policy that facilitates business for all in Croatia, relieves the economy and administration and taxes, participates in the way that it develops a quality national programme of structural reforms that is being implemented, participates in the way that the tax reform we have made has results on both citizens and on the economy, monitors global economic trends and enables with its expertise and knowledge everything I have said in the opening speech which is achieved by the government that is visible and that neither you nor anyone else can deny.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79112	Thank you. Before we go to the next line, let's welcome the students of Koprivnica High School, they've already been and gone but here, I think, are they still there? I can't see them. Let's say hello. We will now continue with the replicas and the next replica will be the respected representative of Ivica Misic, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79113	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. This is very interesting when I listen to attacks on this government that in no case could be blamed for everything that's been going on. Your first name as prime minister was that you were a Todoric player. The second thing, no one recognized what happened in Croatia last year that 3% of GDP, if the first surplus was in the country, I would like it to be slightly recognized what was good done. But if I look at what I'm looking at in this House, people aren't from the market, they haven't earned a salary on the market, of course they can't recognize any successes. These are people who attack people who are involved in a budget where they have never earned a salary in the field or in the market, not for all people, but for most. So, my lords, let's see what's been done, God forbid Agrokor went bankrupt, I'm asking a question as to what Croatia would look like today. I think with this law that a lot has been done and I think these attacks on the prime minister or Mrs. Dalic in a year don't make sense because Agrokor exists for 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79115	Here, is this the Rules of Procedure that you brought Mr. Rainer? Is this the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79116	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rechimer Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, in response to this request, we have already exhausted it. The ministry's impeachment, which does not exist, is also talked about for reasons of the Rijeka power plant that is not in the Republic of Croatia, but is also about Agrokor. As I understood the responsibility of Deputy Prime Minister, or Minister Dalic, and how I understand the proposal for a settlement was removed from the financial risk for the state, thousands of jobs were preserved, and then I don't see actually reasons for impeachment unless we are talking about the category of sympathy and antipathy. If you will, your smile, Mrs. Dalic, no matter what my wife thinks I like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79118	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79119	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, in your presentation, you said something that sounds kind of amazing to me in light of today's circumstances and the very discussion that we have witnessed here and in recent months, which is that those who have proposed this today and have had information that you didn't even have, was it some abuse or was it inconclusive and involved in all the decisions that have been made and preceded in the adoption of this law? In my opinion, I think it should be apostrophysed so that someone who was a shareholder now says he was trying something, and then when he had the chance to maybe change something clearly didn't. Is for what reason, I think it's clear to all of us, but I think it should be particularly pointed out, especially in terms of this information that I really didn't have so far that some of their representatives had even more information than the Prime Minister himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79120	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79121	Your Honor, Prime Minister. So unlike your PR, which advises you to impose topics of the Istanbul Convention, the Most Political Bridge does not run the PR. And the other thing is, when you say that our goal was to connect the HDZ 1990s to the HDZ in 2017, and to wrap it all up with Agrokor, so I'm just going to ask the opposite question, why connect something that is connected because the moment the Bridge came out of the government, your advisors became Škegro, Valentić, Greguric. Is that the HDZ of the 1990s, is that the HDZ of 2017, is that maybe the HDZ of the 1960s? It's only a shame when you say they don't check on information content, sources. It's an important source for you, and you haven't done anything, unfortunately, about the content of the information. But well, clearly what system it's from. But what matters at the end when you say about winnings, that's right. We will lose another win like this because the price you pay for this coalition [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] For this travesty of coalitions every day more expensive with every victory more expensive. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79122	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79123	I see that without the PR when we're working spontaneously, we're a little out of strings, Mr. Petrov. You've just said what you want all the time. I went to the coalition with you in good faith, I, HDZ, got you a respectable number of mandates, politically mainly trying to position the same part of spectrum where the HDZ and I thought we could have cooperation there. Then I realized that it was essentially your primary goal to connect HDZ to something that you think in the public opinion you acted negatively and on that you were working on, it was the whole agenda and it was clear as day and it was seen with or without your agency. As far as the price for the coalition is concerned, they are not available in the way you see them, only responsibility for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79124	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79125	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister. If you read the document a little bit, we didn't even ask Minister Dalic's recall because of a settlement he didn't even have, it's a framework agreement, as the minister said, so let's hope it comes to it. But me and my colleagues who asked for recall, we were looking for him because the minister was a walking conflict of interest. And what happens in Agrokor, so I'll tell you very vividly, even though I don't drink coffee with the commissioners, I don't give or receive privileged information, etc. The situation of a year ago, and if you're reading the balance sheets and financial reports that Agrokor owes more and that there are fewer people working in Agrokor, then I'm wondering how did you achieve that goal? All this smells to me and the timing of this debate on the rescue of Private Dalic, who I said was a walking conflict of interest and definitely the weight of your government he would call the government of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79126	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79127	Okay, as far as this segment is concerned, I think they clearly responded to you in writing to the government ten days ago. And as for Agrokor, so when the settlement process is over, when you see how much debt write-off you will see how much the amount of 56 billion is smaller, how many companies and new Agrokor will be able to carry on their backs, how much business they will have, how many suppliers will have a business relationship with Agrokor that they and the company will profit from and how stable for the Croatian economy and will have a perspective on all that will be part of the settlement. Then draw the line, then tell us if it's plus or minus what Mr. Todorovic handed us last April 10th, then draw the line. Not now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79128	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79129	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister. Yes, it is good to discuss this subject, but it is discussed after the public pressure and demands of the opposition as well as after the public pressure and demands of the opposition and went to the extraordinary Commissioner Ramljak because it has been found to be 141 advisers, that it is 500 and a few million kunas for their work and it has been found that Mr Ramljak's company has participated in this. And what I'm trying to ask you for is because there's no record of a meeting of the Interim Council that no one has made a decision to give them that kind of compensation, that's what they are. At that time over 300 million kunas were paid, the plan was over 500 million kuna. Is that what the Deputy Prime Minister Dalic needed to know about? Yeah, it's private company money, it's not taxpayers, but it's private companies that are going to get less money. She had to know and had to react, not when the public reacted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79130	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79131	Just for a little while. So the Temporarily Religious Council was discussing the involvement of a counselor, seeing the cost, giving support. As for the selection of subcontractors, they were the decision of those advisors, not me or the vice president's decision. The consequences later you saw, the situation is different now, we are going towards what is good for Croatian farmers, and I think it is important for the HSS as our sister's party and most important to you as a man who comes from Brod-Posavina County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79132	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, you're saying that Agrokor is in charge of a roll-up loan for about 8 billion kuna that's a good sign, it's a confirmation that the state's extraordinary administration was doing well, it's a message to the world that we're stable, responsible, safe, etc. My questions, why did you charge Agrokor for 8 billion, and Ivica Todoric asked you before Lex to maintain 2 and a half billion liquidity? If you're in charge of 3 billion Agrokor, 1.2 billion in accounts, 500 million in consultants, where's the other 3 billion kuna? You can clearly tell me why you're hiding, where you spent, where the rest of the money was spent? 77% of people don't trust you, so don't hide the information.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79134	The answer of the Honorable Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79135	Thank you very much, MP Lovrinović, I see that the main sport here is to read the polls, but you are already the third to quote it. Mr. Lovrinović, you seem to forget the framework of this law. I must repeat that once again because there is this thesis on nationalisation, on state interventionism, no, and you here in this institution and we in the government have created a legal framework. That's a big difference, a big difference. One thing was to create a legal framework, and the other was to nationalize something, and it never occurred to us. And that's why an extraordinary commissioner is appointed a Trade Court, not appointed by the Government, don't forget that. You're a professor of economics as I recall. And it's the extraordinary administration that got the new trust of the creditors and the new funding so that business and restructuring could go, and when you draw the line, the credentials were always the real owners of the company anyway. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79136	Thank you. Next. Let's not get off the bench, please. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79137	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Government of Replica has offered me your statement that you will not discuss... The stories. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Very interestingly, there is one document based on which all these actions have been carried out that have led to what today are more or less participants more or less satisfied with this, and this is a revised financial report. I have not heard a single word from all speakers that someone has called on a document based on a particular business event, among other things in that document, some things that I think should be said in this House. When the financial crisis in Agrokor began significantly, when there was a bond expansion, when there was an uncontrollable debt with the Russian banks, that the loan had raised a company in the Netherlands, not in Croatia, then they would see that the period was 2012. 2015 It's just a fact. At that time, the factoring law was amended, then the Act on the takeover of companies and other things was amended, but on that in an individual debate. I think that's what needs to be said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79138	Thank you. And the last replicas of the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79139	Your Honor, Prime Minister. Since today you've sweetly explained to the public everything that's happened on this subject, I have to admit that the debate is unequal since things have been going on behind closed doors, that people have been entering the government at a strange time, that the information about it doesn't even have HDZ representatives, it's just very difficult to discuss this subject by law. Since, here, I will be the fourth to quote these 77% that people do not believe in what direction this country and government are heading, since the institutions in this country have failed, that the system is not functioning, the DORH, the BOOK, if it is and any irregularities will never be resolved and as we know that mass court proceedings are being conducted and that everything that is wrong is being well-fated and whatever you are lying with your shoulders, and I see that you are today and quite pale and that you are not quite in the element of the debate, I hope that this will still end well one day.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79140	They'll respond to the replica of the Honorable Prime Minister, I don't see him pale, but this one may.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79141	Yes, Mr. Lenart, you're acting yellow, fresh, satisfied, carefree, nothing bothers you, you're not stressed as part of the European People's Party that your president is coming to three weeks ago for consultations on how to prepare for the European campaign, you're crying for co-operation with the SDP, so they say no, no, no. So you yell at the Amsterdam Coalition and they say no, no, no. I'm inviting you as our sister's party to sort out where you are. It would be a great time and it would be useful, it would be healthy for the HSS, I wish it, I root for you in this regard, and as far as your information is concerned when someone in some strange hours came to the government, it was simply incorrect. Meetings were early in the afternoon, early in the afternoon, better inform yourself and do not create a negativity towards institutions. It is our responsibility for all of us to strengthen Croatian institutions and thus to be yellow.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79142	Thank you. My colleague Lenart has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, which article has been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79143	Dear President, I think the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Article 23.8 that the prime minister did not answer my question, but discussed some other topics that are not important today, but yes, we are members of the European People's Party, and you said that Vukic is also a member of the European People's Party that we do not support. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79144	I estimate he's not hurt by the Rules of Procedure, so I'm asking him not to abuse himself. Look at your Rules of Procedure, you'll see that there are also sanctions for abuse. We're going to open a debate now. The first one will be shared by respected MPs Panenic and Bulj on behalf of the representatives of the Most Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79145	Thank you very much, so I'd like to start the show. Honorable Prime Minister on his way out, Your Honor. What I must show in the beginning is one dissatisfaction with the way the President of the Croatian Government speaks in this House. All the things he respected for certain parliamentary deputies he himself shows himself actually belong right in the benches and I hope he will quickly belong to the benches as an opposition, so he will be able to communicate and mock all of us in this way. It is absolutely and equally unacceptable for my colleagues to have two top people of the Croatian government sitting here smiling and I can say that this initiative will fail. What we are actually going to talk about is that in the way this government manages, Croatia is exactly leading in this direction, which is to fail. So let's talk a little bit about the data, about what's written in the recall proposal, everyone read it publicly, is a communicative colleague of Grumoja on behalf of the motionor. I would like to add a little bit of reason to see that our economy, run by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, is going in a bad direction. We've already discussed the decline in GDP, the reasons not only for the fall that happened now but also for the future time that only tax reform that was ad hoc will end. It had an effect, but without real structural reforms we continue to fall and since 2016 when growth was 3.2% now we have reached 2.8 and further announces not only that, but to 2.7 and 2.6. Are those the government's results?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79146	My colleagues and colleagues, please let's just keep it down a little bit so that my colleague Panenic can speak normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79147	Thank you very much. If we take into account that the decline in agricultural production is 5%, that investments have slowed down, that imports are growing nominally, that they follow what our tourism has turned not into our success, but actually the success of the import products we offer. Only comparisons of Slovenia that we often know in some statements to belittle 5% grew. Secondly, when we look at industrial production, it happened to us for the first time in three months in a row that industrial production has fallen, it has fallen at an annual level since 2013. In whose vault, whose jurisdiction is industrial production? In Minister Dalic's vault. If we follow the state of the labour market, what someone boasts about is actually devastating. It's a fall in unemployment. So, the European Commission has found statistically that the number of persons working in the Republic of Croatia has decreased since its entry to date by 160,000 kuna. We should be ashamed, we shouldn't communicate at all any small successes, let alone this kind of information. The minister has ambitiously announced that it will be abolished, reduce the number of imposes especially non-taxable givings so-called. parafiscal intrusions. What I only noticed was that one record that was very clear, clean at the Ministry of Finance passed from the Ministry of Finance's website to the Ministry of Economy where it was very difficult to determine more how much the total volume was. It was nine billion. After what happened? Has there been a fall in the reduction of these burdens? They're growing. The compensation for renewable energy sources has been raised by several hundred million kunas. Now I'd expect a comment. A new membership fee will be introduced to the family farms. Is that a fall in parafiscal loads? What's said is missing right in that domain. Efforts to eliminate any of it, reduce it like a compensation for editing, water protection, membership fee or mentioning it I don't know the fees for radio frequency spectrum and all that was standing where? In the Government document, the National Reform Programme 2017 I'm reading the data discharge for at least 20% of the excessive non-tax charges. How much did it go down? What amount did that decrease in 2017? Let us release more words, announcements, promises, years of reform. It's been years for us, almost two years of this government, and nothing since the reforms. And that's what you can see on all the competition reports, on the dooing business list we fell 8 places from 53 to 51 places. Of the countries in the environment ahead of us Macedonia, Kosovo, Montenegro, Serbia, Romania, Hungary. Where are we? At the beginning. Also when we look at each other, we also stagnate on the global competitiveness report. Recently, the Heritage Foundation placed 92 places on economic freedoms. Even Rwanda is ahead of us. What we're getting from the beginning is what we're hearing from the minister, it's an announcement of the privatisation of key state-owned companies that manage key goods, and it's all going to turn into tycoonisation, privatisation and everything called reform. The absence of such reforms ultimately damages not only citizens, not only those who expect progress, but also damages the state budget, is this charge provided by tax reform not to compensate for the lack of structural reforms, and in the long run will be a question to which we will pay all these obligations? What will be paid for the purchase of aircraft, which will pay for any obligations to health, pension insurance if there are no key changes? And what are the key changes that came out of the minister's portfolio? Amendments and additions to the Investment Encouragement Act, the Strategic Investment Act, shall be resolutely competent for the Forest Act. What is one of the greatest reforms mentioned inside? Golf, golf, golf how many times just golf. If golf will change the picture in Croatia let's make hundreds of golf courses so it'll certainly be better for all of our citizens or I'll use the words of the Deputy Prime Minister, someone needs to light a candle. I'm afraid that candle is already lit in Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, Lici, Banovina, Dalmatia. So you can't ignore that economic reforms, structural reforms haven't been taken and that we're the weakest ones. Perhaps in Zagreb you can get away with this story and you can see something, but Zagreb is also stagnating. No more moving to Zagreb, but also skipping Zagreb, going abroad. Actually I'd say when I look from Slavonia's position, the vice president actually that shirt was the red card you got, it's one warning that you need to change something. The easiest thing would be to change you, but also here's to what's been in Agror about all the events, about all the questions that are raised by who's not the author, the author you've said you are, but who's the co-authors of the lex, which they deserve by their engagement. I see the names appear. Why did you defend Texo Management if the Prime Minister intervened afterwards, so Commissioner Ramljak had to resign? Why did the Temporarily Religious Council stay all this time and adopt a draft settlement where we can see already resistance from Adris, the French? To whom did the payment of the debt go, has it ever been announced? We only know who Agrokor will belong to as such and so expect that you will receive the award, will surely be here in Croatia at least one person who will take the Order off his chest and hang you and say thank you, it was a strategic decision, you did well for Croatia, this attempt will be remembered because once again it will prove that opposition, Most, SDP, Live Wall, HSS and all others who supported this initiative was right. And if you stay, you will remain for the sake of the current created majority whose interest is only to hold the government without the right intention to create real structural reforms in the Croatian society, then those who support you will have to raise their hands from you. I'll leave my colleague to Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79148	Thank you very much. Now will be continued by the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79149	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Minister. Comrade Panenic, instead of Belja's T-shirts, may have been... may have already been awarded a medal from the Russian ambassador, but it didn't turn out to be the part he was wearing on Dalic's fingers because as they went through in this case you may have really forgotten the medal or will assign him. Here I would just at first say that in this story where you mentioned it, the prime minister went away because of it, and it's unserious of him, but it's an important topic, but he defended you, he defended you, and I think it's not that important to him, and the Rules of Procedure was made in a way that parliamentary representatives have no interest in clubs to replicate because it's impossible. So this is one monologue that will last this way and pro form will be done this day, but here we need to talk about very important things. Is it possible, here through the replica I tried to say now on behalf of the club asking, is it possible that Minister Dalic didn't know that 10 billion kunas of bianko bonds, so the currency without cover used by Agrokor? You were a minister, you knew the banking system, you were good with Todorovic, and here you are, and the former minister had just heard from Mr. Shuker, that no one knew that 10 billion kuna Agrokor was using the bond without cover. And I liked to file a criminal report for it. Well, you all knew, Mrs. Dalic, you knew about it. And you know that you knew if you were part of that system, but you shouldn't have said anything. That's why it's important that Most did this first step and what he pointed out. If 15 years ago any group had done this, Agrokor wouldn't have made such an economic collapse. That's funny to you. Is it funny for you that I, a high school man, to press criminal charges for using Agrokor without cover and endangering monetary policy, and you, Minister, were? Of course, you're laughing now, I expect we'll be smiling in the end that they won't... tribute protection as you've done in case there's been an unremembered case just on the question of TE Peruca. You've been preserved, you've defended this project, then 67 scientists signed, the ministry has refused, so the services have turned down this harmful project that you've been pushing and the vice president, the husband of your government's vice president. The last time I didn't ask my colleagues when it was about it, I didn't ask you at all, I asked the prime minister, but obviously you're the prime minister and I really hope that this imposed topic on the Istanbul Convention, that you'll really stay calm this time and you won't react in that way that I won't need protection because of course you don't know how you're going to react. When we talk about Agrokor, so is it possible that the entire system that was based on Agrokor, which was essentially the system was politically functioning and was the boss of everyone, is it possible for me to be the Deputy Prime Minister, Vice-President of the Government for the Economy, and her husband in a similar company in Ina in a company in Ina where the state is owned, is co-owner in administrative bodies. It's possible you know. And in the case of, it is a conflict of interest, and in the case of Karamark it was not a conflict of interest, regardless of what it proved itself that Karamarko in the conflict of interest considered this to be a greater conflict of interest, however obviously this case goes through his fingers. That's my attitude, I've reacted then, and here I am from this pay phone saying that an evasive example of conflict of interest is what happens in this case. What will the commission decide, politically not politically, but I speak here and my position And another one at the end, I'd just say... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Saved, you can come down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79150	The next club of representatives, before the club of representatives pardon, on behalf of the promoter the respected representative Siniša Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79151	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Ms. Martina Dalic is Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship of the Republic of Croatia and Vice-President of the Croatian Government, who is responsible for the entire Croatian economy, for its development, for improving competitiveness, for instruments and measures of economic policy, for the development of entrepreneurship, for industrial policy, for the application of innovation and new technologies, for improving industry, for facilitating and promoting export investments. That's what it says. What are her effects? 0. Economic 0. on various Hot Spot scales or competitiveness,... Instead of speeding up and working to speed up economic growth, of course because it is a fundamental postulate of the modern state, economic growth, reduction of unemployment rates, higher employment, economic growth slows down in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the average index, I say be careful, the average index EUROSTAT data, among the 28 countries in the EU, Croatia is in 3 places, but the devil, third place from below. Only Bulgaria and Romania are behind us. These are all the results of work and the Ministry of Economy. As I said, all countries tend to reduce unemployment and increase employment, but this does not go hand in hand, except in the part where young people go abroad and work there because there are no new jobs for them in Croatia. And this is again said by EUROSTAT data where the employment rate for people ranges from 15 to 64 years, so at the end of 2017, around 55.9% is in Croatia, so less than 56%, Romania has 61%, and in Estonia, which has 73%, I won't even talk about it. It's the same result of Mrs. Dalic's work. And instead of Mrs. Dalic solving these problems, she has focused on only one topic in the past year, Agrokor. She's involved in it, she makes the law, she deals with processes, and what happens a year after that? Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the very beginning. Let me remind you, Prime Minister Plenkovic, over a year ago, invited all the representatives' clubs with him to meet 5 to 12, as I have a draft. And it begins a mantra about the geostrategic danger of the Russians, listen to me from the Russians, him and his advisors. What happened after a year? Hey, there's the Russians in Agrokor. A year lost in a belt for what could have been done the same day, the same day they offered because Prime Minister Plenkovic says a real and global danger. A year later, what was done? Nothing. What did we earn? Nothing, except for some who went through that time through Agrokor. Hundreds of consultants, colleagues, former partners, current partners, pulled out some eus, kunas, dollars, depending on who came from. Who's supposed to answer for that? By order of Mrs. Martina Dalic. That's why we're looking for her shift. And because of one other thing, which Mrs. and colleague Dalic knows, hanfa, you have one notion called a person who is a person who has access to privileged information and who works in a company or otherwise performs tasks that allow her to access privileged information. And now you also have one such Croatian political trachea, Prime Minister Plenkovic, along with Martina Dalic, pompously announces Ina's return to Croatian hands. Ina is d.d. Who's a member of the INA administration? A husband who reports her as a direct person. And they say what? Well, we don't know about that. Hey, hanfa, institutions and more secret negotiations in Hungary. In Croatia, of course, since institutions do not work, there is absolutely nothing. And all of this, all of these are reasons for the recall of Minister of Economy Martina Dalic, and here I especially appeal to the members of the CNS to think about it well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79152	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of Nikola Grumoja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79153	Dear counterpart Hajdash-Doncic, it is clear and we see from the fact that the prime minister left the assembly, that he did not do this job very well today, Martina Dalic. So all those arguments that I made in my speech didn't be denied and, better yet, I don't know if you noticed that he praised my speech when my colleague Petrov replicated, he said you're not exactly convincing me like this when the PR agencies don't tell you. I prepared my speech myself, it was very well written, with arguments for the recall of Martina Dalic, with her involvement in the consultation salary affair and the prime minister said in his speech that there was some kind of minor irregularity, I don't know what word he used. It is clear that they were caught with their fingers in the jam this time, that because of this, the government's commissioner was removed and that Martin Dalic had responsibility for it and that this process was compromised. And the prime minister left the assembly because he couldn't defend her.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79154	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Hajdash-Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79155	I think Mr. Panenic mentioned it and in principle I don't think it's good for the prime minister himself, so I can just say my own court, but it's my very subjective court. So he underestimates the Parliament, this is his pressure, he's bored of coming to the Parliament, I think he says the man himself in his own words, so it's not good, they're elected representatives of us, so we represent someone here. And this is all you've said analytically, you've given one chronological representation of what's been going on with Agrocor in the last year and two months, that's true. And that's why we insist on it, so it's two key responsibilities. You're in the process and you're a person.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79156	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79157	Thank you very much. Comrade Hajdash-Doncic, I will replicate on the basis of facts, that is our communication in this House. And I answered the line because you mentioned it to HANFA. You know very well when the HANFA Act was changed, when the administration was transformed into an administrative council and when one great independence of HANFA was transformed into a small bureaucratic society. And what happened after that with factoring societies etc... It's just facts you can't get away from. And these are the facts found in the revised financial report. Let's talk about it, don't mess with some things that aren't like this. So amended, the HANFA Administrative Council annulled a very important decision made by former HANFA at the time I was Minister of Finance and concerning Agrokor. Just so that some things and facts can be known in this House when we talk about some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79158	The answer of Honorable Representative Hajdash-Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79159	I didn't talk about it, so with you agreeing with this part, I was talking about a radical situation, so when someone announces a ransom or a renationalization of a non-essential INA and a person who... is just connected, therefore connected, together with a person who is a member of the INA administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And after that, there's a statement coming to you, so check the INA administration that we don't know anything about it. We're just talking about it, so that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79160	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored Deputy Prime Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. When I first met with the proposal to launch a question of trust from the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts, Ms. Martini Dalic, I then said that it was a modest and unserious process, not because it was not mentioned in the proposal that Mrs. Dalic's exact duty in the government behaves, not because of the ignorance of geography and the indication of the non-existent river, but because I realized that after one year of implementation of the Law on Extra-Government in Commercial Companies from the systemic importance of the opposition could not be reconciled with the fact that this law really represented at that time and what we see today is impeccable intervention of the Government in the economy from independence to this day. Today a year after the law was passed and whose author, as Mrs Dalic said herself, forgets that it was a time from a year ago when he threatened Croatia with a breakdown of Agrokor, which would have become like a tsunami to the entire Croatian economy and the entire financial system in the Republic of Croatia. We forget that this company is the strongest private company in Croatia, a concert containing 70 companies whose system employs 60,000 people, of which 30 thousand in Croatia, that this company was blocked at that time, that it threatened to pay no pay, that the policies were empty, that the suppliers only delivered bread and milk and that it really threatened the breakdown of Agrokor and clearly, in that sense, over 150 thousand employees who are in the system of suppliers of the company itself. And that was an extremely big problem that the Croatian government should have solved. I remember that there was also a time when colleagues from the opposition disputed the law because in Croatian insolvency law according to their words it was possible to resolve the existing laws or the bankruptcy law or the Act on Pre-departure settlement. So I would remind today a year after the law was passed and having certain analyses that say that companies are being dealt with in Croatia by the basis of the bankruptcy law, that those who go into a pre-fashion agreement that in the bankruptcy law in which suppliers are jointly satisfied that it is also found in charge lines, that one analysis showed that 4% of suppliers are in the process, that in the other... A pre-profit settlement where suppliers are in proportion to, some of them and in time of 20 years, that analysis has shown that only 44% of suppliers' claims have been calmed down through that law, and some in the long term of 20 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the government has taken note of this, and the government has set itself up in a way to move towards a new law which, among other things, and what way to address problems in large system companies, the European Commission also proposes that, for specific cases in EU Member States, special laws are taken as solutions to further challenges at a certain point. And at that point, the government set out to solve the crisis in Agrokor with one legitimate goal, which is to save the debtor from the Croatian economy. And today, after a year of principle of this settlement and agreed, we can say that this law, the Law on Extraordinary Management in Commercial Companies, has made it possible to save the debtor through saving the debtors, which is through saving Agrokor, through making a deal and the Croatian economy. And I would like to point out in particular when I was talking about the bankruptcy law where suppliers find themselves somewhere around 4% under the bankruptcy law, according to a pre-fashion deal somewhere around 44% that in this Law on Extraordinary Administration, suppliers representing the spine of Croatian agriculture have settled from over 55% to now, and through a settlement that is agreed will be even bigger. That the settlement of the border debt was agreed. And what is particularly important is that the part that will not be settled will represent their share in the ownership of the future company. Therefore, I expected this to be said that the opposition would respect this, that instead of the request for impeachment, it would not congratulate the Vice-Presidents of the Government, but at least it would be said that she did so as to contribute to the adoption of a certain law for Croatia and for the Republic of Croatia, which allowed the further functioning of Agrokor, which allowed the employment of the Agrokor system, which allowed its suppliers to function, which enabled the most successful tourist season and which allowed today's creditors, the financial creditors of Agrokor to not lose everything that would have been lost if it hadn't been for that law, and not to say what case the drawing experience from other insolvency laws in the Republic of Croatia would have been all lost. Therefore, it was expected of the opposition and not this one I said a modest case. When the Deputy Prime Ministers are transferred by the MOST or by opposition that this law is her manipulation I would call and tell my colleagues that Croatian MPs in the Assembly have their integrity. And the moment the government proposes the law here in the Croatian Parliament and when the Croatian Parliament adopts it then it is the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament, regardless of who is its promoter and who is and how the law was written. Therefore, we parliamentarians cannot deny responsibility because we passed a law that we do not like at one point, and we ourselves participated as MOST was in its work and voted for it. I personally absolutely support this law today in the same way that I defended it when the law itself was passed. And what is particularly important is that our colleagues in the opposition want to point out, what they pointed out, which is that this law will implement, that this law will add to the state budget, that its realisation will fall on the burden and on the back of taxpayers I would remind you that there is nothing of it. That so far the state budget and not even the taxpayers had any damage, were not allocated funds from the state budget and on the burden of taxpayers, taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia, but that everything that happens, is happening in a system in which, apart from the extraordinary administration, the most responsible creditors manage the basis of this law with the company from which they seek their claims. Therefore, this attempt to deceive the Croatian public that the damage to this law will have exclusively and only a taxpayer and it is not true for you. No damage to the state budget has occurred to taxpayers either. However, this law is precisely because it is well-conceived and well-complicated will become part of the European... rights because the European Commission has proposed to the European Parliament to introduce in-laws in Europe this law which has, in a short time, been successful and expected by it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for this part concerning the launch of the question of the Deputy Prime Minister's responsibility in the section relating to the thermal gas van plant, the gas power plant on Lake Peru, I want to be there until the end precise, on the coast, as it says here in the very light of the government, I would agree with the proposal to recall the vice president when he was part of the strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we have already heard this, and it says in the very reason that this project, the opinion on the project has been given by the relevant ministries in accordance with the Law on Strategic Investment Projects, agreed with its inclusion in the list of strategic projects, namely the Ministry of Energy and Environment managed by counterpart Dobrović and the Ministry of Justice, which was managed by his colleague, the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, therefore, the restoring ministries who had something to say about the project agreed that he was going into realisation that the government would support him and be an integral part of strategic investment projects. If the Deputy Prime Minister hadn't acted on it, her responsibility would have been sought, and not to say that the project, most importantly, is one of the projects that is part of the spatial planning strategy in the Republic of Croatia, which is unanimous, which the strategy unanimously with 116 votes to adopt this Assembly, and I say, 22 of the 37 signatories of this proposal to raise the question of the responsibility of the Deputy Prime Minister. Therefore, all that the Prime Minister did in the process was legal. It was legal. Ask for responsibility from the Deputy Prime Minister because he acts in accordance with the Law, in accordance with strategic documents in the Republic of Croatia, according to the spatial plan of the Croatian municipality, according to the spatial plan of the County of Split-Dalmatia, it is bizarre. I say, just the other way around. If she had not acted and advocated in accordance with the powers of the Minister of Economy and the Deputy Prime Minister, it would have been possible in this way to ask the question of the movement of the Deputy Prime Minister's responsibilities. In this regard, the HDZ Club, esteeming everything the Deputy Prime Minister is doing, when it comes to the economy, especially when it comes to these points listed in this proposal for the launch of the responsibility issue, will support the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79162	Thank you. Yes, we do. He's the one who's done the injury to his colleague, Mr. Grmo. What's the point, and what's wrong with it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79163	This Regulation shall enter My colleague Bačić spoke about the fact that the representatives here are people with integrity, and in the last few days we have heard from him that by entering a particular party, representatives lose some of their sovereignty, or integrity. I would ask Mr. Bacic to make a deal with himself and then come out here as parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79164	Comrade Grmoy, I give you a warning because you have abused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next club of representatives is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak. ... Ah, well, you just have to pick up on time, right. [[You can't hear it.]] We're not really, uh... Where is it marked? ... [[You can't hear it.]] My colleagues and colleagues, let's get things straight, since we're not already reading the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear it.]] Of course, every time the proposer gets back to you, but he's got to get back to you. I can't read my mind to anyone right now, I'm trying in that sense, but I'm not doing it. Therefore, you must also contact when you report, of course, that you will receive your word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Agrokor is no longer a Croatian but an international company and it is good for Croatia. That's what Mrs. Dalic said the other day. It is good for the Republic of Croatia to deal with such key companies, a company that holds a quarter of the food production in the Republic of Croatia, handles about 33,000 hectares, etc. But at the beginning of this address, I will benefit from the indisputable facts that I will show and prove that Martin Dalic needs to be removed from the post of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy as soon as possible, and that is where all the ends of economic policy are held. It has lost weight, but it puts them in the hands of those who are pursuing their interests at the expense of the Croatian economy and the people, whether it's domestic or foreign centres of power. This isn't just a vote of confidence. It is in fact a revelation of all the actions that point to the responsibility of the Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Martina Dalic, who led to the Agrokor case, but also any further consequences that we have witnessed today. Mrs. Dalic, and this also showed by the latest move in the case of Agrokor, which is why we have been looking for her shift, for the past 20 years in politics has not brought any concrete measure positive, but Bahatos, and in the last current term of nepotism, supplication, conflict of interest, unjustly allowing the wealth of its closest associates, unethically and legally questionable their own, but also the behaviour of their closest associates and selectors. Mrs. Dalic must at the very least leave because of political responsibility because Ante Ramljak, whom she has resigned as an extraordinary commissioner in Agrokor before accusing her of conflicting interest, has been charged with conflicting interest. If Mr. Ramljak confessed to the guilt, and at least for it, Mrs. Dalic had to do the same. Deputy Prime Minister Dalic did not deal with the Agrokor problem in a responsible way, just the opposite. It has often proved to be the main culprit for the problems that have arisen, it has created since the Agrokor affair one an affair of Agrokor two and that secret meetings, hiding information about the situation in Agrokor and the author of the special law lex Agrokor as well as the fact that the Special Law on Agrokor is full of holes and indeterminates, and that at least the disastrous conflict of interest of her staff Mr Ramljak, who has filled the pockets of millions of kunas from new creditors and especially from workers and suppliers of Agrokor. Therefore, Martina Dalic was undoubtedly proven and proved, as she herself said, by the law "on the rescue of Agrokora" to the extent of the company and to allow for the wealth of banks, several consultants and other voters, and all by means of her political influence to enable its unethical and possibly criminal behaviour that has yet to be proved. And unfortunately, it's only the tip of the iceberg, which is why, because of some of the above mentioned parts, she should have resigned a long time ago. In a broader context, it is very important for the entire situation to be seen and therefore it is necessary to change it because the same pattern of behaviour as it showed in the case of Agrokor has shown in the case of INA and further questionable rounding of the banking system. After leaving a large part of the Croatian energy and banking sector to the Hungarians because Hungarian minority owners in the INA are doing whatever they want, destroying the remaining value, closing the refinery and preparing for the inaccessible export of domestic oil and gas, Agrokor is left behind and the most important part of Croatian agricultural production on the part of the Russian hands and all this to the detriment of Croatian citizens, villages and entrepreneurs. I'll remind Mrs. Dalic is the same person who wants to sell HEP and, as such, buy INA. This is the only remaining Croatian gold hep, in fact wants to leave in foreign hands, most likely again to the Hungarians or the Russians. Any problem in the economy whether it is Petrokemija, Đuri Djakovic, the shipbuilding it corresponds to finding a strategic partner. When we see today the results of these strategic partnerships, we see that we've been since '93. and further... the most expensive phone pulse tariffs, the most interest rates on loans, the most expensive drugs, etc. I can't make it in these five minutes to present everything later in an individual debate, but I think the fact has escaped the prime minister and that he doesn't want to defend his vice president speaking enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79166	Thank you. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79167	Dear colleague Lovrinović. Of course we have nothing against international companies, especially those who want to invest in Croatia. But what is the case here and what was said by Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic? How much money, through HBOR loans, through various deals between Agrokor and Ivica Todorovic in the past 20 years, have we beaten into this concert so that he can now, with the help of Martina Dalic and click on the business of the international company? That's the real question. How much state money, taxpayers' money, we beat up Agrokor and then hand him over to the Russians? And I don't know how much the media and the press have caught in the first place? My colleague Bulj said the ultimate thing, instead of this T-shirt you got from the workers of Belje, it would be best if Azimov gave you half his medal. That would be best.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79168	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79169	Dear colleague of the Grmoys. Of course no one here is against international companies. Croatia must not be fenced with wire, but that is not what I meant. What I asked the Prime Minister why you owed Agrokor during the extraordinary administration for 8 billion kuna if you paid the suppliers 3 billion, if you paid the consultants half a billion, if there's a billion, and where are the other 3 billion kunas? Where's the money? Look how the vice president laughs. She doesn't care. Let others worry about how it'll work out, right? But it's good that he feels so happy in the Croatian Parliament. Enough of these scams you've been talking about for 20 years about, Croatian citizens must understand that they open their eyes. The sooner they open their eyes, the sooner we get out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79170	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79171	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lovrinović, can you tell me as a professor of economics whose company, or who owns the company whose debts have far exceeded the value of the underlying capital? Are these the owners, the imaginary owners that a single parliamentary representative would like, or are they the actual creditors of the company who seek their claim to the debtor, according to the company that went bankrupt? So this is what I'm asking you to tell me, or can it be the owners of this company who would want us to or who are true believers and who are looking for their assets that they've invested in this company?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79172	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MP Bačić. Of course, the believer is asking for his money. It will only show how accurate the assessment of the value of the Agrokor is. This will likely show judicial proceedings that will be conducted on the one hand as assets are valued, and on the other hand, obligations are as they are. But asset valuation will be... But I'm asking you, these same Russian banks offered the same offer before Lex Agrocora, that arrangement would be cheaper, it shouldn't take 8 billion kuna. Why did you get involved in all these problems when these same banks offered liquid loans at the time? However, there were obviously other games in the case of geopolitical, geostrategic, and what is worst, Agrokor's concert and agricultural production has not been preserved from everything has been destroyed as regards the relationship between the OPG and Agrokor systems, this is the real issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79174	The last replica of Stjepan Curaj's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79175	Thank you, Vice President. So I just want to say here, it's a little bit slow going through and in public this international aspect now that Agrokor's got and actually de facto he's had all the time because by definition, it's an international corporation that produces goods and provides services in more than one country, it's been going on for a long time and according to another corporation or company whose headquarters is in one and other different units in the other, and even this is not, here the word that the owners and owners will be united around the company that will not be in Croatia but Agrokor remains a Croatian company based in Croatia. So let's get that part straight about whether Agrokor has suddenly become international, he hasn't, he's done it before. And as far as he is concerned, the Croatian company is still the sole owner of those who are not this law are foreseen these are the creditors whom someone else has chosen have become owners who are de facto in the party and that is what it is but it is unfortunately such a situation where we are here today and with this... where they are because of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79176	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79177	Thank you. Dear counterpart Curaj, what is the strategic interest of the Croatian state in agricultural production in Agrokor? It's Slavonia and Baranja, they're picks. The idea must also be a strategic interest in the fact that the peaks are connected to the OPGs that are thousands, to place over the Consume of their products. Since this concept has not been achieved, it is not in this settlement, Mrs. Dalic's strategic plan is not there. So, about the OPGs, small agricultural production nobody cares about. So who else will worry than the Minister of Economy and the Deputy Prime Minister? Let's not wonder why people run from Slavonia and Baranja, why they left her, why? Because all they did was protect the interests of big combinations, a few big bosses, and everything else is left to itself and go abroad, that's the real story.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79178	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that of HDS, HSLS, HDSSB, on behalf of whom the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In principle, it is very difficult to talk about the request for the recall of Vice-President and Minister Dalic because it is not a serious document at all. I am not sure that it has happened to turn out dilettaneically but simply in the statements that the callers have made in this time since the request was submitted, it has been evident that it is not at all the purpose of the recall, that it is not at all a serious matter to talk about it, but to make another day of theatre in the Croatian Parliament, let's spend another day spending time, spend the money of Croatian citizens to look at ourselves in the camera, to observe ourselves a little self-in love. The government's response to this non-serious article that was given for impeachment is very serious for that reason, of course, but also for some other reasons that I'm going to say a few sentences about. The HDS club, HSLS and HDSSB, of course, does not accept the request of those who are proposing the impeachment and the absolute vice president and minister has our support. I'm surprised by the Most, I'm really surprised. After April 10th this year, I'm surprised by the Most. It would be very serious and responsible that the representatives of MOST who voted for the law we're talking about here again, if you said ok, it seems we did a good job, we took part in this business, we raised our hand for this law, we're going to save tens of thousands of jobs, we're going to save the OPGs that have a lot of talk here, Croatian domestic producers will be saved who say this law and procedure is okay and the companies are being saved. It would be the right move of a constructive opposition, it would be one responsibility in any case, and that would be taking positive points in principle because at some point since someone was in another situation, position, they have passed such a law. Unfortunately, we haven't experienced it, and yet we're witnessing one destruction, one bringing up riots, one bad picture, one bad climate as if we're already in our own right. We've been listening to charges here since the '90s and here around Agrokor. I said that in some previous discussions. There has been no government since the 1990s until the government led by Prime Minister Plenkovic, who has not been involved in any way in creating or preserving Agrokor, each in its own way. Perhaps there were good intentions, perhaps he was afraid of losing jobs, of destroying the Croatian economy. Whatever it was, it was just like that. There have been various laws and various decisions made, donations of a variety of money, incentives, I don't know what everything's not like, but it's all been the way it was, it's been over. Today to accuse the government of the local government, now headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic that it is she who is responsible for Agrokor, it is really at least not correct, it is not fair and it is not fair. The fact is that Prime Minister Plenkovic and this government have been torn down by everything that has been pushed under the carpet for years and for which everyone who has followed the scene so much in Croatia knows that one day it will happen. We were all aware that Agrokor was one big balloon and that at some point he was going to crack and that there was going to be a problem. The program that was made, the law that was passed, was obviously good. Owners, so this government or vice president Dalic or Prime Minister Plenkovic did not determine the ownership structure. The ownership structure has been determined all these years. The ownership structure was determined by the former owner. He owed the company, he owed Agrokor, and thus the people who were also institutions that gave money or were suppliers became the co-owners of Agrokor. But we set ourselves up for the capitalist system or we didn't. As a state we are, officially, it's a fact and as long as it's so property is property. Property is property. Today, I am particularly interested in the fact that people are working, getting regular salaries, getting higher wages, making salaries, the OPGs having their products paid, supplying further trades that are in the Agrodor system so that domestic producers can continue to produce and supply the system, that there may be some potential for stronger export capacity and potentials and that the Croatian economy is developing. Well, I don't believe anyone is seriously thinking in the Croatian state, in the Croatian Parliament, that it would be good if Agrokor had gone bankrupt. So let us remember the tens and dozens of bankruptcys that were in Croatia. Do we have any examples that this has ended so perfectly and beautifully? I don't remember such examples. Some day someone commented on the example of the singer, yes, yes, we just can't compare the size of Pevec and Agrokor, and on the other hand, Pevec was saved in bankruptcy in a way that the believers entered the co-ownership structure in one piece and that they continued to supply that trade chain. It was also said and done, and that is why here today we talk about changing, recalling the Deputy Prime Minister because Agrokor was reportedly saved, because exactly in the year that the law predicted it was successful to get to the point when it began, to say formal things happen, when contracts were beginning to be signed, when the principle agreement was reached, at least it was incorrectly and unfairly both for the Government and for those involved. Was there nebulosis, was there immorality, was there too much separation for some services? I personally can't claim it. I don't know what the price of such services on the world market is. We should check that out. In any case, the bombing bells you big amounts, they're big definitely, but I don't know what they're like on the market for such services. Shall we check that out a little bit? If anyone was connected, if anyone was working somewhere, have them investigate those who need to investigate. Let it be sanctioned, but today here after this process continue to say the same thing, it's not right. I expected, here, just before my colleague Panenic said the same thing, I expected it to be added to this request for the recall of Vice-President and Minister Dalic, because they had collected bananas perhaps in Konzum, for example, it would be a valid reason for me to ask, to put it in that request as a reason, too, so that it would be called to Minister and Vice-President Dalic. Well, you were talking about it, I wasn't talking about it. It was yours, my colleague Grumoja, you don't have to throw me here now, I didn't mention bananas, but our colleague, your party colleague Panenic, that's what we're talking about. Then there was the talk of the gathering, and I was seriously worried about it the same way. I expected it to be in your request for recall. That would be a lot more serious than what you wrote, believe me, it would be a lot more serious than what you wrote. In any case, respected vice presidents and ministers our club supports you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79180	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79181	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the promoter in these five minutes, I will look back on something which is both formal and contentally very controversial, and directly responsible is Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic, but also Andrej Plenkovic himself as prime minister, i.e. as Prime Minister. We all know that this report was presented to the Croatian public on 5 October 2017, nicely packaged by Mr Ramljak. The report was made by Price Waterhouse Coopers Croatia, Mr Ramljak, if I remember correctly somewhere on 2 May 2017, signed an agreement with them to make a legal audit of the company, concluded on 31.12.2016, so we are talking about the revision that was ordered in 2017 for 2016. However, let us remember the revision before that, Baker Tilly will no longer work in Croatia because she forged the report for Agrokor, apparently Todorovic was giving them some kind of bribe to write what suits him, but this review of Price Waterhouse Coopers is not undeniable, or it is controversial. Well, here's a document. The document was specifically commissioned by the lawyer office Olujic Željko, Pezić Iva and Olujic Fran. You probably know, they're Todoric's lawyers. In this document is the report of Sigma Business Consulting, another I would say the auditory house that went a little bit through everything Mr. Ramljak presented. And she found a series of controversial things, and there's a series of fences, so the auditors fenced themselves from stock to day 31.12. They refused to confirm minority interests, loan claims, long-term liabilities, accumulated loss, notes, and there was a whole series of things they refused to confirm. And why am I saying that? Because today a year after we've been voted lex Agrokor, which is what it is, and since we've already got some sort of settlement draft, we don't really know the real balance sheet of Agrokor. This balance Mr. Ramljak presented here is a false balance and Mr. Ivica Todorić and his family will tear down that balance and destroy everything that happens. And you see they've already started through the law firm they've already invested funds to run an audit analysis... Mr. Ramljak is as a commissioner and responsible person and now Mr. Fabris Peruško is responsible for the situation in the company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He hired PVC, took over the report, paid for the report. He is responsible for determining the state of supply and for determining the debt to the believers. Mr. Ramljak also paid for his advisors, both fat, expensive and long, and among other things his own company that he should not have taken even the last in the world because it was a conflict of interest. So he definitely had one of the advisors more than they had America, Putin and Trump together. He had, he had the ability to determine the value of supplies and debt, but it wasn't done until today, and it had to be done. And on that map tower, the counterfeit report is doing this draft. And Todoric will slow it down. And that is a threat for you who voted for it, who are government and for all of us because the Croatian state will also plant its back there. We can also discuss the criminal section referred to in Article 246. Unwitting business or a verification of the wrong content document referred to in Article 281. responsibility shall be borne by who? Mr Ramljak and Peruško, but also those who were to oversee his work, which is colleagues and colleagues of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, present here if I am not mistaken, Minister Dalic, Mr Andrej Plenkovic, whose signature on these documents is Lex Agror and all those letters, the court and what has not already been done. If Todorovic had already paid for a private audit to forge documents... is not impossible especially since it is a complex job that not everyone can do, since the job is more complex always somewhere easier to make mistakes is not impossible and that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia will be expelled from its world network for counterfeiting, but this time by Mr. Ramljak. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I'm so, I'd like to call the Ministry of Finance that out of a few thousand if I don't cheat on my tax spectrum, send a team of hundred, two hundred inspectors to Agrokor to comb a small company and we have a real state of something we can trust, although the IRS has its sins. It's just one little cut through these reports. I sent a parliamentary question just yesterday to Minister Dalic to show up on this apocryphal report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79182	Thank you. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Sincic. You said that these days the government boasts that taxpayers will not pay anything for Agrokor, and you mentioned that the lawsuits and the Todoric families and private creditors will surely follow, etc. We don't know what's gonna happen in the end. So why is it spreading like this, why is it being manipulated in this way that people are told that they will not pay anything, and then essentially there will be something else, that is why the prime minister and HDZ coalition are so fiercely defending the Deputy Prime Minister who not only is destructive to Agrokor but the entire Croatian economy with its economic policy model, not hers, but who implements them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79184	The answer of the respected representative, Willibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79185	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Lovrinović, you have asked a series of very interesting questions here that I cannot answer, nor do I arrive because we have been reduced by the Rules of Procedure, so I have only one minute. Those questions were to be answered by the Commission, the Agrokor Investigation Commission. All documents were to be presented publicly, the witnesses should be examined publicly because the Croatian public has too, and we are not confident in Croatian institutions, so we should do a public investigation and actually present everything in direct transmission. So this is how we have a whole series of manipulations that could happen and happen. In the end, the courts will unfortunately tell their courts in Croatia, which the courts are outside. Here I would just remind why, these days, Agrokor's directors are being forced to book guarantees, i.e. that books tighten interest by trying to show the biggest losers in this process of converting, i.e. setting up mirror companies to one all the bad, to the other all the good. Why have some already quit the process? Are they afraid of prosecution? Let's say... Fabis Perusko answered, avoided answering those questions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79186	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79187	Dear colleague, it is actually amazing that you are now prejudged that Mr. Ramljak, who was then authorised by the court to do illegal acts. And everything he's done and controlled and hired all those people in such short time to comb the complete paperwork, so for a few years, three years back that these reports are falsified, incorrect. And all that until then, so he found himself you said was already forged and unworthy then let's just say the truth, we can't talk like that. Then what the public can believe. I believe this administration with the Commissioner was doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79188	The reply of the esteemed representative, Ivan Willibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79189	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, first of all, I'm interested in the truth, whatever the truth is. Here, I have here from the media. ... He will no longer do business in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Will investors sue the company that worked earlier audit reports for Agrokor? I have spoken from this pay phone many times that Mr. Ivica Todorovic is absolutely nothing to believe and must have violated a whole series of laws. The fact that no one has come to his end, no institution for 20-30 years, that's a story for myself that I can't tell here. The truth is likely to occur, if not in the process of restructuring, through lex-Agrocor, it will occur in courts. This is big money and all the arguments from all the guns will be shot to get to the truth. If the report... It's also unbeliefable and counterfeiting, that's what the profession said first of all, which I'm quoting here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's gonna be there for sure and it's not gonna be good for all of us. So we're building a settlement on the truth, not on manipulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79190	Thank you. The following is the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Branimir Buljac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79191	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister, the Parliament, I apologize. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. The story of Agrokor began in 2006. So 12 years ago, when the boss started setting up the balance sheet so that he could borrow as much as possible, that is, to artificially maintain the price of his own shares. As early as 2009, the audit report found that Agrokor was using the wrong methodology of calculation, a short time-stamp with accounting. Even the application was filed, but it did not bear fruit. Since there was no response from the responsible bodies, the boss inquired so he continued with an even greater expansion of the illegality that was reflected in the introduction of bonuses as means of payment, exchanges, tax evasion through a poor system of transferable whole, all the way to a more or less open money laundering in collaboration with murky types in the Republic of Croatia and beyond its borders. All of this was followed by the increasing cost of a family that had drawn from the company 1.5 billion kuna for a life on a high foot. In moments when the same workers of the company were working for a minimumer, which already shows in itself the deep immorality of the Agrokora administration. Two hundred thousand euros were spent, at least according to data published by DORH for Brijuni suits, castles were bought, islands were bought, all of this was known by our government, or our government, all of it knew by the IRS, but it did not lift its finger to check the state of the company. Not only did she not check, not only did she not react, although it was very easy to sum up 2 and 2, but these governments and this government that we are discussing today practically supported the boss in the act of illegality by the last day. They gave him subsidies and loans through state banks, through the fallen Adriatic banks located on the very threshold of the bankruptcy controlled by the Government, whose supervisory board was Minister Maric and Mrs Peric, gave twice as much credit under extremely poor conditions, amounting to more than the core capital of the bank, which is illegal, all with the help of its puppet lady from the State Agency for Rehabilitation of Banks and Savings, which has been completely illegally managing the state-owned company there for a year and a half. Credits were granted through the HBOR, which is the direct responsibility of Vice President Dalic, whose shift we are talking about today. She's an example. more about Christmas 2016, meaning just before the credit breakdown of Agrokor and the outbreak of the crisis itself, participated in the lending of so-called credits. A Christmas loan of 287 million kuna for which she received a guarantee that the equivalent of PIK Vrbovac property, although it is clear to all that the PIK Vrbovac real estate, even if we have never seen them, can't be worth so much because no real estate in the Republic of Croatia is worth so much, and this is best seen right now when it is necessary to charge the creditors and suppliers that Agrokor actually doesn't have valuable property. You could have checked it all out, you could have known it all. The government has damaged the budget by hundreds and hundreds of millions and billions of them have done damage, they say, we are completely innocent, give us still confidence that we are doing what we did. And that reminds me of that saying, which says, when a man kills another man, that's what the police do. And when a man kills millions, he does statistics. That's how justice and justice work in the Republic of Croatia. And now watch out, so the situation is escalating for 12 years so that suddenly the government will find out overnight. So they found out, on Tuesday Wednesday, that there was something wrong in Agrokor, before that they didn't know, it suddenly fell to them as a paratrooper from the sky, now they find out and immediately go to meetings in the government, some say they were in the night, however, whether they were in the night, in the morning, etc., but it is certain that Mrs. Dalic participated in those meetings. And then it's a roll-up loan for which there's never been a public call, if, I ask you to show me and on that roll-up loan there are vulture funds that have now entered into the ownership of 20% of Agrocora, 20% of Agrocora for a single loan that they've already earned by themselves huge funds. However, one part of Agrokor is now being extradited to the Russians, so the government is shaking, may survive tomorrow, perhaps not, but in any case, it has lost every legitimacy, since we see that there is no more parliamentary majority. At least not really. And so the government finally succeeded in what Joseph Broz Tito failed, namely, implemented an agreement from Yalta in 1945 saying that Croatia must be divided half to the Russians, half to the Americans, and the Croats nothing. Well, I congratulate you, that you have finally accomplished at least that task when you have failed this which is given to you. It is also important to point out, the Alex Partners and Texo Management case, there was a classical case of corruption, classics. Anywhere in the world except of course in Croatia. Even a complete... In legal matters, he knows that at the very least he's committed a violation, at the very least. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Mr. Ramljak didn't even misrepresent himself, because he worked in the extraordinary administration and at the same time was an employee of Texo Management, with whom he signed a consulting agreement for 100 million kuna, a pardon for 100,000 kuna, a total of 100 million with all those advisors, which is a classic conflict of interest. Do you know how long he worked at Texo Management before he became an extraordinary commissioner? For 4200 kn. So what kind of reference does a man have to work for 4200 kuna, that now all of a sudden he needs to get 100,000 kunas a week or 250,000 I think is 250,000 kuna a week. On that same committee, on which Vice President Dalic and Ramljak allegedly brillianted, just a few days after that, Mr. Ramljak resigned. So why if he's so successful? Why he resigned, a brilliant man, doesn't make sense, it's one with the other in contradiction, at least to me. Generally, why is no one punished, ever? Why the administration was released from custody. Who allowed Mr. Todorovic to go to London and now he's laughing at all of us? Why did the government give 5 million kunas to the attorney general, and what was the use of these funds? Why are you blocking the arrival of the main state attorney in the Croatian Parliament, why are you blocking his election? Here come all kinds of reports, be careful coming reports of HERA, HANFA, HINA, state defenders, these, those for children, for disability, for women, and not coming the main state attorney who is a pillar of state government. And it hasn't come since 2015. What are you hiding? So you're hiding crime, that's what you're hiding, I don't know another reason. The only reason why the chief state attorney isn't brought to the Croatian Parliament is to hide the crime, period. If you didn't bring him in. At least until 23.4. until his term, but you're wise as well with Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, let it pass, let her run out of mandate, we'll figure something out, there'll be someone, there'll be one candidate as usual, and let this all pass, let Lex Agrokor be extended, right, we'll deal with ideological costumes, a little later there'll be greetings, there'll be records, the robbery itself let's go on. Mrs. Dalic, among other things, deceives the public, in a way that says that jobs are saved, they are not. In 2017 alone, 2300 jobs in Agrokor were lost. That's the information you gave us on our representative's question. The financial damage is huge, Crobex, the index of the Zagreb Stock Exchange fell from 2200 points to 1800 in a year. He lost almost 20% of the value. You say we saved the Croatian economy. Then why isn't this Crobex index growing? When a result is achieved in the economy or in politics, the stock index has grown. The stock indices are falling today, Mrs Dalic, therefore your stories about the rescue of the Croatian economy are not realistic because they are not followed by independent indicators. Who's going to compensate the pensioners? How is it possible that the pension funds bought the shares of Ledo at £11,000, while that same Ledo betrayed it, now watch out, please this, 19 billion kuna guarantees, 19 billion. Who approved these insidious guarantees to a relatively small company? Who's gonna pay that money back to the pensioners? With what right do you, Mrs. Dalic, have my pension in such a non-transparent bad way? Who gave you that right? So you're completely acting irresponsiblely and politically and economically and simply don't deserve our trust any further than your entire government. That this model is not a coincidence we see in between, we see in the example of the new Agrokor and this new Agrokor is Croatia's shipbuilding which is also personally monitored and led by Vice President Dalic. She has now decided to hand over Uljanik, one of the tycoon Doljević, who has been running a shipyard in Trogir for 5 years and has failed to restructure, where there are huge problems, where she plans 40% of the cancellations to workers, where she is unable to pay any other material rights and therefore to restructure such incompetent man who has no idea of shipbuilding, at least she does not know enough, she now extradites a much larger shipbuilding site in the hope that he will restructure the Oiler with some of his private money and train him to live on the world market. At the same time, Mr. Končar has no restructuring plan, no idea how much money he's going to invest in the Uljannik, no idea how many cancellations he's going to have, no idea how much he's going to do and what he's going to do. So what's this all about? This is simply about mixing, it's about withdrawing money from the state budget, forwarding that to some stakeholders, probably with commissions like this or like, all without responsibility, all without strategy and all without perspective. It's sad that it's done in collaboration with IDS and HSU, but it's another topic that I wouldn't like to further elaborate on, among other things, because I don't have time. Therefore, I call on those MPs who vote for conscience and lately there has been a lot of talk about it here that they do not exercise confidence in the vice-presidents of the government, to bring down that government just as they have brought down Tim Oreshkovic's government because it was very good for Croatia and very good for those parties who participated in it. Do not take responsibility for government moves no longer supported by the public, which in just 14 months lost 30% of its voters inconsistencies and inconsistencies, by public fraud. Don't support that government that can't even manage itself. Therefore, the Live Wall and SNAGA Club will vote in favour of Vice President Dalic's impeachment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79192	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Pupovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79193	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, the Minister, the Vice President, the Honorable colleagues and colleagues. When we discussed here a year ago about the adoption of a law known as the Lex Agrokor Club of Representatives of the SDSS then said and I will repeat today after a year that this operation is very risky for Croatia. And on the other hand, Agrokor is a picture of Croatia. A picture of a model, an economy, an economy model that had been developing for decades, and that economic model had come to its end, exhausted everything and collapsed. It could have happened a year earlier, two years earlier, three years earlier, there were indications in that period. Those who evaluated could have estimated that this would have happened before. However, as several speakers here have said, many key actors whose job was to warn about the risks, to highlight these risks, and above all, the banks did not want to share that risk-revealing responsibility. And many suppliers and many believers, above all suppliers were actually some sort of hostage of these circumstances. As if such a law had not been passed with all its inadequacies paid the high price of that hostage position, precisely suppliers. If the suppliers paid, the Croatian economy would pay, Croatian workers would pay. What we can regret today after a year is the fact that we were brought into a situation that everything had to be done in a hurry and everything that was done urgently with it and mistakes. Some of the speakers, including counterpart Grmoy, warned of a series of mistakes made in this regard. But by objectively looking at all of us in time pressure, that time pressure also caused a coalition to break down because of it and that, in addition to the serious and deep economic crisis that could have erupted because of the Agrocora, a political crisis broke out. This would be fatal for Croatia if it had been given to the verse. And that risk exists to this day. And regardless of all the criticisms we heard today, of which there are fully justified and we are aware of them in the ruling coalition, we must not allow things to go in the direction of the verse. And the prime minister is right, we have fragile institutions of colleagues and colleagues, we have the mistrust of our citizens in the institutions and our citizens in the state. But if we continue to contribute to the deepening of this mistrust it will not be a problem only of this government, it will be a problem for anyone who comes after this government. To restore that trust, in the elements of weak institutions, a colleague of Bunjac asked why we don't have a report from the State's Attorney's Office? Well, we don't have it because we haven't had any basic political stability since 2015, so basically until today. On a committee in the Parliament he was a state lawyer and filed a comprehensive report, for over two hours he spoke and could be heard. It's the board I'm chairing. But it certainly wouldn't respond to all the elements of the crisis that we have here. So the SDSS club as it was a year ago will take the position of a cautious, skeptical realist. But they won't get in their decisions. It will retain the right, retain the right to keep what it has kept in the coalition, which is to point out and warn about what it considers to be risky places or risky phenomena. And now that we're talking about it, I'd like to say what's most important. Thanks to the various actors in the public space, from the media to party representatives, parliamentary representatives, some of the things that began to happen in Agrokor have seriously contaminated law enforcement. And they have seriously compromised the credibility of all of us who have put our trust in the realisation of the law. Fortunately, the key site and key cause of this contamination has been resolved and removed. A new extraordinary administration headed by the new head of the extraordinary administration, for those of us who are part of the ruling coalition, restored confidence after the contamination, in several talks and several meetings. With different aspects of what a man comes up to when he comes up with a renewed trust, Mr. Peru and his associates have regained the trust we lost at one point. This was also confirmed by the fact that, together with the Deputy Prime Minister, in a relatively short period of time, the draft draft agreed on and the draft guaranteeing a very high degree of likelihood that the agreement would be reached within the legal deadline. Because the key actors are there, regardless of what they were called and no matter how we were baptized. But all those who, like some yesterday, try to run a story about restoring value sovereignty, and today we're trying to talk about restoring economic sovereignty, I'm going to say this, that we took care of it in '91. We could have had a different position, but we didn't. That we took care of it all the years after '91. Maybe we could have had a different position, but we didn't. We cheaply broke what we had in our hands, and we had a lot and I understand those who defend today what little is left. As little chance of defending it, but I understand it because it's a guarantee of what generations who come after us need to do in a long long fight for reconstruction. The circumstances of the global and brutal world capitalist order, including European ones. Therefore, the idea of a national state only as an idea without a leading element on all elements of what makes it sovereign, and above all economic, legal and other elements is the idea if we continue to lead it again it will destroy us. For this reason, I would like to say that it is extremely important that the key creditors agreed on the draft and that they were all at the table and that they all gave their consent except for one or two others that I believe they would give their consent and find their place in the settlement. At one point, it seemed as if geopolitical games were so intensely spilling over the issue of Agrokor as places of the crisis of the Croatian economy that it would break the possibility of reaching a settlement. Today, thanks to the extraordinary administration's skills and vice presidents, that's not what happened. That breakdown didn't happen. And I'll say one more thing, if we've shown that we've exhausted the way we see our economy, which means state plus private interests, we'll have to go, obviously we'll have to go through a period in which we'll have to let people who come with their money, with their interests manage part of our wealth, and we'll stay here to defend the rights of our employees, to defend rights that are related to national interests such as water, forests, land and decision-making systems. The thing you'd like to say in the end. If at any point on behalf of the SDSS Club, any action by members of the government, prime minister or any government member who could be associated with corrupt behaviour was recognised at any time, the SDSS Club would be with the opposition today. But it's not recognized. Mistakes have been identified from which she has been brutally removed. Is there room for any other adjustments when they're due to some consulting company? Let it be decided by the extraordinary administration in which this club and I as its member and as party president, I trust. And I wouldn't want us to do these people any bad favors with any kind of procedure. I understand the people in the Parliament who launched this initiative at a time when all things were unclear. But today is actually much clearer. For this reason, we will not be able to support an initiative that has come from part of the opposition's representative on the impeachment of the Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79194	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which they will speak respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please. Here you go, buddy. ... Yeah, then after my colleague, we're, uh, no, I've called and then we're behind a co-worker. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here we are and before our colleague Mrak-Taritash arrives, let's welcome all students of the construction and technical school from Zagreb who are at the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79195	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is today's agenda item on the subject, the subject is the impeachment of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Ms. Martine Dalic. We in GLAS or the Civil Liberal Alliance are absolutely clear, unmistakable and loud enough to have something called continuity and something called one word used by another party, which is credibility. We have not voted in favour of this government, not once, nor have we voted in favour of the law that Lex Agrokor, therefore as a serious and consistent party, we were also signatories of the opposition initiative Minister Dalic and we will vote in favour of Mrs Dalic's impeachment for the simple reason why we think that some things should be said that the time has come and give an opportunity for some other options or other variants. In my presentation on behalf of the club I'll talk about a few things. The first thing I'm going to talk about is what a single government means. When Mr Plenkovic received the trust to manage this country, he also received the trust that he also suggested who his closest associates would be, who would be ministers and equally fit him primarily and basically he for the work of this government and for individual cabinets, individual ministers. For an economy that is extremely important, which we in our party consider equally important, the possibility is given to Mrs Dalic. I do not want to evaluate through this exhibition at all what my colleagues have done whether Mrs. Dalic is someone dear, not sweet, not likable, not likable, it is not important at this time, but I want to say a few things that are related to Mrs. Dalic's work. Otherwise, when someone in the government doesn't work, when someone in the government sits down and somehow runs their portfolio without wanting to make any move, I haven't noticed that any of us have told my people, they should come to this Parliament and they should be responsible for their troubles. It's the same in your life. When you say I don't know, I can't, I'm not competent enough or anything else, there's no sanctions, but if someone works then for that work they have to answer and it might be the wrong message but it's just that. Mrs. Dalic began to implement very seriously some policies she advocates and I also have to remind you there Christmas, some years ago in 2015 when Mr. Plenkovic came out and talked about INA. And what happened behind that? Big nothing. It was something that was supposed to be some Christmas gift to the citizens of Croatia but that Christmas gift did not come to the citizens of Croatia because behind that, nothing, the owner who owns most of the shares will sell to the moment he decides which one he decides, under the conditions he will decide. Likewise, regarding Agrokor, it began to turn into a story that we doubted at the beginning, and now we're in doubt. The first results of all of this cannot be appreciated or appreciated today. The first results that this law has, what has happened, will be able to evaluate and therefore need to make a time-out. Agrokor hasn't been the story since yesterday. Agrokor is a long story. Agrokor has created something that can be an example in textbooks and can be a diameter in discussions such as roof capitalism or so on. cousin capitalism and let's be honest and say helped by everyone. When the disaster occurred and Mr. Todorovic couldn't go any further, then he went to London and out of the safety of his London apartment where he explained why he was changing his apartment, who rents him an apartment, so under what conditions, as he always did high as he did, don't forget that he bought Kulmer's palaces and that when you look at the night visions of the city of Zagreb, then you see up there is something bright and that someone who showed it, my people I control you, looked down and watched what happens in some other system, today he does it from London and there's not a single excuse for Mr. Todorovic and for what he does. However, the history of one Agrokor ended with Mr. Todorovic. Behind that came one another Agrokor, one another Agrokor Mr. Ramljak. I must admit, I was convinced that this Agrokor Mr. Ramljak will end up with Ramljak and we will see what is happening here, but he is at one point regardless of what is unreservedly standing by him. Let's remember those pictures from the Committee on Economy when it was and subfling what to do, how to do, what to say, talked about how well it works, even at one point remember there was a word only can help us St. Ante, so it was Mr. Ramljak that realized that he was the Holy Ante who could help and then he was at one point after he was playing, after he thought he was new Todorovic so he could do it all together, said the girls and the boys I wouldn't play with you anymore, I played a lot, I didn't like it there what was going on and I'll go away. No one has questioned whether Mr. Ramljak does or does what he does, no one has come into a position to tell Mr. Ramljak he needs to leave. He is the one who said I will not play with you after he has been defended, after behind him and his decisions undoubtedly without questioning them, I will not play with you and there he has brought to position and Mr Plenkovic that Mr Plenkovic has been thinking for two weeks about what he will do and everything else. After that comes Mr. Fabris Peruscoe and the question now is whether it's the other Agrokor who started Mr. Ramljak, so this gentleman will finish or maybe this is some third Agrokor. For the first Agrokor Mr. Todorovic, let's be fair to the end it's wrong all what happened in Croatia and there's no excuse for a series of governments that are lurking in this way, covered over their heads thought things would happen well. But for this other Agrokor or Agrokor 2A, 2B or for this second or third Agrokor is the responsibility and guilt of this government and the responsibility and guilt of Mrs. Dalic is she who clearly and unequivocally said after a long time that, I am the author of Lex Agrokora, I know what it says in that law. Not only do I know, but I participated, and no provision of that law was out there without being under my patronage or knowing what it was about. Likewise, we remember that behind Mr. Ramljak, he clearly cares. Let us in the Civil Liberal Alliance or in GLAS have doubts about it, let us think that it is not going in the right direction together, let us think that it is not going in the right way, and there we have no doubt that we will not support Mrs. Dalic's stay. I have to remind you, about a little less than a year ago, there was a Lex Agrokor a year ago, and a little less than a year ago out there in June last year, we came up on the option because we didn't want to participate in some things. We have such a one comedy that not only do we say we're not going to play in that story right now, but we're going to say exactly as we came to do, exactly as we're doing, we're going to keep doing it. And to say we haven't supported this government since the beginning, we've been saying why we think lex Agrokor isn't good, we've been saying why we think we should go some things differently and we'll keep doing it. We had a very interesting debate in the Parliament yesterday, then someone participated a little more, someone participated a little less. The HDZ colleagues, who were in a slightly larger number than they were now in the late evening, told us that here in HDZ they are one party showing their democracy, which shows the possibility to vote and otherwise on the subject of the Istanbul Convention or on the subject of the abuse of women and abuse in the families of those most sensitive, will vote on their conscience, show their democracy and vote for democracy. So I'm just wondering if this model is only valid in one case or in selected cases? And believe it or not, these selected cases will obviously be there when some rights, the rights of women, the rights of the most sensitive, or in some other cases. So when it comes to the remainder of Deputy Prime Minister or Minister Dalic, we also have doubts, we suspect, we think it is not good, so we will use our right and vote differently, so we will see if democracy is understood exactly the same that when we talk about a democracy in the party, and when we have some other things we don't. But it's on the conscience of each of us who's going to have a chance tomorrow to press this key that we have and we have these three options so each one of these options is saying something. This government is under cover of taking responsibility for lex Agrokor and has tied its fate to lex Agrokor. Once in one case, there was already an overstatement and there was another coalition. The question is, is it a different story and some other overstatement because, of course, the majority is 76. 77 is the thin majority we hold, but let's not go back, let's see what happens tomorrow. No one should doubt at all how we in the Civil-Liberal Alliance or in GLAS, which we will press. We're going to squeeze exactly as we've done so far and exactly as we have comedity, we have a clear attitude and a clear story about how we're going to keep doing it. Absolutely everyone has the right to boast about this project at any time and at any stage of any project. We have a chance to see today's newspaper, and let's see today's portals where we boast. However, it does not need to be done prematurely. I've learned a few things in my life. I've learned that often a step is too much of a step in the break-in, so maybe you shouldn't take a step too much and maybe at the end of this exposure, as I always try to show some of the things that it is in real life. I have two kids, I have a younger son who's pretty interesting, and when he was about 15 or 16 years old, so, at a time when guys start doing all kinds of crazy things, I came to him and I said, "Look, it doesn't go on like that anymore, you're rude, blasphemy and spoiled. He said that, all that you said was absolutely true. That's exactly who I am, but that's not my fault. It's someone else's fault, and now I don't know otherwise. So I'd like to finish this story on Vice President Dalic, on the subject of Agrokor. Maybe the time has come to think that some things need a little bit different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79196	Thank you. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS]] He's gone, so he loses his right to speak, so it's time for party representatives Rada and solidarity, Reformists and independent MPs, colleague Robert Jankovics. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79198	Mr. President, fellow MPs. Of course, when we applied for this debate today, first of all, we applied for a debate on documents signed by 37 representatives of the Croatian Parliament and asked for, therefore, to raise the issue of trust by Martini Dalic, deputy prime minister of the government. I'm one of those agents who's been listening from this morning to what colleagues, as clubs, have been saying. Little has been said so far regarding this document that many have called different names of the 3rd party. However, the document signed by 37 representatives of the Croatian Parliament deserves enough respect to analyze it and explain the position our club has taken. So, 6 points of which 4 relate to the metrics, i.e. the Law on the procedure of the extraordinary administration in commercial societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia and I am one of those representatives who voted in favour of the Emergency Administration Procedure Act a year ago in the relatively dramatic circumstances of April 2017, our Club voted, and that this Law, as such and its contents, puts on the burden of Deputy Prime Minister Dalic, is, first of all, not fair because we voted in the Croatian Parliament. Minister Dalic wrote it, but we could change it, we could not adopt it, but we adopted it and we stand behind it. What is subjective may say that this Law was the only way out. We had no other way out in April 2017. We played the finals of the Champions League right at the beginning of the term of office, after 5 months we had the stake of the Croatian economy, we had Agrokor's role, we had the role of financial stability of this country and we made it as possible, and this is the vote of the Law on the procedure of the extraordinary administration in commercial societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. What is still in this proposal is Commissioner Ramljak. All the news we've heard since April on this site says that it knew about him and that he was supported by the full political leadership of the then government of the Republic of Croatia. Accordingly, he was also proposed to the Trade Court for the appointment, which was confirmed by one of the stones that was placed on the wheel by Minister Dalic. 3rd and 4th was the fact that there were 5 days of overlapping, in a way that he was an employee of the company by 30 April, and that the consultation agreement between AlixPartners and Texo Management was concluded on 25 April 2017. So, on April 25, 2017, it was Tuesday. April 30th was Monday. We're talking about three working days, so Wednesday, Thursday and Friday where this conflict could have been. We find that conflict unnecessary. However, it is certainly not big enough to support such an initiative, especially the circumstances of the Deputy Prime Minister. As for the price my predecessors, the prices, the advisors mentioned, our view is that above all in our club we don't have such a good financial expert who could explain whether something expensive or not, common sense says it is. However, those who are experts claim that the amount of counselling is up to 1% of the total demand that the creditors are looking for is realistic. All we've paid according to current media information is up to 1%. It is not cheap, however, there is an extremely narrow circle of people and advisers who could have done the job at all. In the second part and in our club, we support the view that the results are relevant. So one is the story, the other are the results. The passing of this Law, signed in this proposal by 37 representatives from 8 clubs, mentions, therefore, one of the results of the Law's adoption is that the collapse of the Croatian economy was primarily prevented. That hell that could follow, we could see a tab from that hell in those 48 hours when the most important companies in the Republic of Croatia were blocked. That hell is stopped. We have succeeded, i.e. the company with the help of this Act and Commissioners, to build a tourist season in 2017, which has been the best in many indicators so far and just so that we can ignore all this and that we do not trust politicians, nor the special Commissioner, nor the Prime Minister, we can trust small OPGs, we can trust suppliers, domestic industry, we can trust the workers, we can trust the believers who have found the way this law wall has given enough time and created the conditions to sit down and that most likely by the end, or by mid-July of 2017, we will agree, that they will all have an interest that something we have so far called Agrokor 1, 2 or 3, will now be called Agrokor, that it will continue to work and that the most important criterion we have if you look at the cover from April 2017 is that it will not cost anything from the Croatian budget. It was a criterion then, and if we respect it now, we will be in a position to make this a success. Let's wait for the end, but if this is a passing time, it is in our opinion that it does not support the opposition of Minister Dalic. In addition to the club's position, I can express my personal opinion, because as the only representative of Baranja in this House, of course, that the company Belje as part of Agrokor is extremely important for us Baranjce. I had in dramatic circumstances last year a meeting with the Deputy Prime Minister on the subject and with Special Commissioner Ramljak on the subject. We talked constructively. I had the impression that the arguments were being heard. The fact that the White Unions were also with the Deputy Prime Minister yesterday. I think they confirm that the direction is good, this is not the end, this is the passing time, but the passing time is good enough and more than good enough for this opposition initiative to be rejected. And the last thing I'm saying is a fundamental question, a question of trust in the Croatian government, a question of trust in Andrej Plenkovic, which he certainly has by our club, he's had from the very beginning, he has it now. And all of us who look maybe a little wider that we have the privilege of understanding other languages so we see what's going on beyond our borders, the circumstances in which our country is today where we have government. She's with the tight majority, but we've got her and she's stable. I believe we'll confirm that tomorrow. In circumstances where the whole environment is, where we are waiting for this year's elections in Slovenia, where we have elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where we have problems in the European Union, we need a government that is leading, which is negotiating, which represents our interests and I think that all that I have said about both the circumstances of this memo and the circumstances of possible results as we see them present and future ones, given the picture and the wider picture, I think it is the country's interest to reject both the party and the club of representatives of the party of labour and solidarity, reformists and independent representatives tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79199	Thank you. Now again, on behalf of the promoter, it would be five minutes' exposure to his colleagues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79200	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm saddened that the prime minister here is not in the assembly. He probably realized that he was defending the indefensible, or that his first opening speech failed to answer the questions raised here, and they are very specific. He caught a field where he thought something better stood when it came to impeachment, so he talked about geographical concepts, he talked about how the opposition didn't put all the points, but I think that's good. Although the issue that counterpart Alexic was talking about is important and we can start an impelation on the work of Minister Dalic and Deputy Prime Minister of Relations of the Croatian Government towards banks. I think it was a much happier solution to go with just what's controversial about Agrocora. And that's exactly what my exposure was. The prime minister even listened and commended him, so but I would say so, he said there was a PR agency behind the speech that works for the MOST, which should not necessarily be bad. It means we can pick a good PR agency, but joke aside. So this is a serious speech I've been preparing. There was no answer on the charges brought here, which compromised Martin Dalic and the entire extraordinary administration and everything that was going on. We can't hide behind it now, now that we have some sort of settlement plan, it doesn't mean anything. We'll see what happens in perspective. The fact is also what I was saying in the opening speech that the Croatian government, that is, all Croatian governments, is ahead of the HDZ government, because the SDP managed Croatia somewhat shorter. To a large extent, it's helpful to spread the Agrokor like this. I spoke in the replica of my colleague Lovrinovic that the state institutions, that HBOR, that HBOR was giving meaning to the credits to Agrokor, that one good part of the incentives that my colleague Bulj was talking about were going to go to the OPGs, that they ended up in Agrokor, and the question now is who will become, or who will become, the majority owner of the concert. So no one here on HDZ's side has answered those charges. No one responded to the fact that AlixPartners hired by a subcontractor who was Texo Management, that this company, formerly and now Commissioner and employee of Texo Management, has earned about 12 million kunas, per week 230000 kuna, a day to earn 30,000 kuna. No one gave any answers to that, and here my colleague Matic warned me, I said the prime minister was talking about irregularities. You know what he called this whole affair, Prime Minister Plenkovic? If it were indiscretions, I think that's how it was, indiscretions. Imagine the affair that left the Commissioner of Agrokor on advisory salaries, the prime minister says these are indeterminates. And that's the answer to everything that's been going on, to this compromised process that someone needs to answer for. When it came down to how the opposition made a mistake in impeachment, you all know, he talked about a colleague of Tudjman on a number of occasions that we as parliamentary representatives don't have here at our disposal an army that works for us. So a couple of us MPs were just doing it, there was a mistake. But I'm right on the same day that that came out said I'm taking responsibility, it's my fault. He can't bear the whole opposition and share that responsibility with me. Who took responsibility for what's going on in Agrokor? Says the Prime Minister, we've replaced the commissioner and solved the matter, it's taking responsibility. When someone screws up, we replace that man and put a new one on, and now everything's fine. And behind that man was Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic, and she should be held accountable. And believe me, if we were a serious country after such a conflict of interest, the Deputy Prime Minister would resign himself, if he had any responsibility in Croatian politics and awareness of what a conflict of interest is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79201	Thank you. We are now going to discuss the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the esteemed colleague of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79202	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear vice presidents, ministers, ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. At first, of course, the HNS Club will not support this initiative or a proposal for a shift. First of all, I think that over the past months and since our decision to enter this government, we have made it clear what our role, our goal, is to provide a certain political stability, a political framework in order to bring about the biggest potential crisis and economic crisis, we can say every other one. And I think we're here and time has shown you did a good job. What happened here throughout history was said where we were a year ago, I think we got far away from it and came close to a solution which and what we have repeatedly mentioned will keep as many jobs, agricultural production, general production and ensure the smooth work of almost all companies in the Agrokor concert. That's what has to be the goal and what's finally the solution. All along, we have been communicating that for these and other initiatives that, as far as ministers and ministers are concerned, they fall primarily within the authority of the Prime Minister himself, that the role and work of Minister Dalic is closely linked to this project where she clearly said that they are behind it and bear all responsibility. Today we see that against those ominous ones, so I can't really believe that someone was saying that malts not and wanting it to happen with such intonation, so maybe there's a government downfall and new choices so that people come to what they want, not to save this company. They took all the political responsibility and they wear it and as we see the results for sure and I am convinced that it will end.... What was the goal of the Lex Agrokor itself and what I said here today and in replicas, we were then against it even though we gave five or six amendments to improve the awareness that something had to be done. Perhaps we could go to changes to the bankruptcy law and ensure that, perhaps this is the best way time is moving away and showing this and as we heard and the court in London has confirmed and the European Commission has therefore confirmed this one form of intervention in insolvency laws that deal with insolvencies is good and will, of course, be the most judged by the ultimate goal, the most will be talked about. We were constructive then, we knew something had to be done. A little bit more we wanted to maybe go to the suppliers' hands because they put them first, so production, jobs, suppliers, it's a set of connected vessels that were created around Agrokor because we think it's crucial for our economy, especially with us when we talk about agriculture in Slavonia and Baranja where there are a lot of addicts and cooperatives both Belje and Vupik and other companies from the Agrokor concert, of course they depend and work and they're their life benefits, and of course we had that in mind. And looking at these past year with all this new information and news, I think our decision to join the government has provided this political stability, this framework to avoid what I think is unimaginable. And any other destabilising way that would put it at risk is primarily irresponsible. Unresponsible to those people who work, irresponsible to the future of the company and these small speculations, saying it is now a foreign owned company, that it is a betrayal of Croatian interests, and I don't know what doesn't want to point at it. Agrokor has been an international company for many years and decades. It did not become now and will not become an international company after the deal, it will remain a Croatian-based company in Croatia. But those who have decided to take money from foreigners have unfortunately conditioned that the believers, and thus tomorrow's owners are foreigners who are their own form of ownership who will react to the best protection and that's what we've been saying all along, to protect their money. We don't have to be smart, we don't have to show ourselves to the best lawyers how we protect other people's money, our goal all the time was to be to protect our citizens, our employees and to preserve agricultural production and our own companies, not how anyone spends their private money. And that's what we used to say all the time when there was and only a commission, a private company is funded by private money, and no swear can be financed by taxpayers. This law has made it possible and in this direction it is going. All the costs that come to me as ugly as they sound to a normal person and to anyone in Croatia, they're a fabulous amount, I agree, but all that it takes to bring it to an end, to be quality, to be long-term because it's not just a matter of settlement and a draft that is now accepted and the deals that will follow, the thing is sustainability, the thing is that the company is self-sustaining and there is neither a sale nor a fragmentation nor a loss of jobs. That's the long-term goal, that's what we have to keep an eye on and be afraid of. And that's where we give our support. We also know as one of those reasons that is listed for the actions of the former special commissioner we initially condemned, said that we cannot accept this way of non-transparent work even today if we can pull the parallel when we saw in the information that other advisors would be engaged if we talk about the McKenzie house, we see immediately that difference, so before the job happened, it was announced that the creditors had decided to choose the company where the current management president, the extraordinary commissioner, worked with the goal I had already said. That's what we resented, and that's what I'm sure you can put on the commissioner's burden. But on the minister's burden that someone here is looking at the ball that someone could know, knew whether or not he knew how to bring both political and therefore the very survival of the whole process, it's a big game, and I think it has a pure purpose just to know that it won't come without picking up some political points as it has so far. What we can certainly say is that even though we are not operationally involved in this process, we will continue to provide this legal political stability and this framework to end this because you know that the decision of the CNS to enter the government immediately followed the second day of the signing of the loan agreement, without them today we would not talk about Agrokor here, and without anything else, whether someone wanted it or not. The fact that someone wanted elections at all costs, even if they lost 50, 40,000 jobs just to mix up their representatives, would make the public judge whether it's good or not a good motive. But our motive must be all these employees, agricultural production and everything else. or the rainbows who apparently had some information more than the prime minister himself and were involved and everything and didn't object then while they were part of it and now when they came out, now we don't like it anymore, it's the same public to judge whether it's okay or not. Finally again, we will support the Minister or we will not support the proposal in front of the HNS Club and we hope that success will continue... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79203	Let's move on, Club of Representatives of the SDP's esteemed colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79204	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. It is difficult not to start this debate by a brief reference to colleagues before themselves and to the conviction or what the citizens think about being said all morning, for example now while counterpart Curaj said that the entry of HNS into the government was inspired to give stability to Agrokor, to ask the citizens of the Republic of Croatia if it was a condition or three chairs that were grabbed by the HNS, most likely 99% of the citizens would say that they were three chairs. So it doesn't matter just how much the hand is going to be here, it doesn't matter how stable or unstable most 76, 77, it matters what our citizens think and what they think and how they react and how perceptions have not only about us but also about the government, and especially about what we're discussing today. And we need to ask ourselves whether the citizens of the Republic of Croatia feel that Ms. Martina Dalic deserves to be Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia after all the things we have stated in our explanation and after what has been happening for the last year. I think it is rare that the consensus in the Croatian public that Mrs Martina Dalic should no longer be Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We didn't do this poll among the ruling majority MPs, among the CNS, because there, someone said they had voiced out by the end of the term, that's right, so there's no statement about any criticism or anything but what we're saying is that we're here and that we have to defend the attitudes that we think are right and work in their favor. Which is why the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would think that the process in Agrokor is non-transparent, that Mrs. Martina Dalic has the greatest responsibility for making four thousand kunas a month by yesterday, suddenly receiving one million kuna a month. Who cheated on Croatian citizens and gave them these by government, incorrect perspectives and images? No one. No one has cheated on Croatian citizens but it is all true and that is why Minister Dalic must no longer be Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia because she has played the trust of the citizens they have given her to manage the process and in the end, people close to her have achieved incredible material gains. In the end, Minister Dalic herself said that she wrote lex Agrokor, took responsibility for him, that all of her friends, gentlemen from Texo Menagment, Mr Ante Ramljak, were all her friends with whom she worked for many years, the father of Croatian privatisation Borislav Škegro, etc., and these people came out as the biggest winners in the process of the crisis in Agrokor. The biggest winners. Someone kept the job, it's great, some unfortunately lost their jobs. I said yesterday, 3,000 people work less in Agrokor than they did a year ago. But the ones most received from this process and process are consultants, people elected by Ante Ramljak, along with her, our Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Martina Dalic. Texo Management, PR consultants, lawyers and these Americans, ask God who else is in the game, and we don't know because we don't have those papers, and yesterday the prime minister wasn't brave enough to say how many out of the 60 million kuna prizes he's gonna get, he's gonna get the Texo Management. That's what he didn't want to say here yesterday, although he knows that information, and now I'm asking Mrs. Martina Dalic to tell us how much her friends are going to get from 60 million kuna prizes that will be paid by making a deal in Agrokor. Tell us. That's what Croatian citizens have the right to know. How much Matic, Texo Management and all these consultants will receive the prize. Why don't you go out with that information? Of the 60 million kuna that Agrokor will pay them. And now someone's gonna say so what? Well, it's not a state, it doesn't matter, it's not taxpayers' money. This has a lot to do with the state, because the state wrote the Law, or passed the Law, the government wrote the Law, it was written by Ms. Martina Dalic, and I told you, on the basis of this law, the biggest winners of this whole process are these people that I just listed to you. And that is why Mrs. Martina Dalic can no longer be a minister because she has gained the trust of Croatian citizens in this situation with the problem in Agrokor solved the obvious problems of her friends in these private companies that I have mentioned to you here. And this is not about any comparable fees, as they like to say, compared to some foreign partners. It's very simple to look at the balance sheet of a company that is a consultant and a ban accidentally the same day that Americans were elected, a year ago and today. Today 12 and a few million kunas of income, a year ago 10 times less. There is no chance, ladies and gentlemen, as there is no coincidence that people are even in the same business building. Well, they're all neighbors, one from one floor, the other from the other floor. Texo Management on this floor, Šavric and partners on the second floor, this one on the third floor. It's all one society that did the work on this Law that made it possible for them to do Mrs. Martina Dalic. And then it's normal for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to no longer trust Mrs. Martin Dalic. And they don't trust Prime Minister Plenkovic who's so keenly defending her. And that is why today and tomorrow when we vote, I should consider whether it represents and protects an interesting circle of people or protects the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I said, I don't have any illusions about some people who've been enveloped for the rest of their term, who don't care. It is important that 2 and a half years still benefit from those three chairs that HDZ gave them, such as the party of the HNS, but all those who have the option of choice and choice and see what is right, and what is wrong, should decide in the interest of what our fellow citizens want. I am particularly referring to colleagues from the Club of Representatives, here, a colleague, a national minority, who I do not know with what right from heaven and in the ribs announces that they will not support Minister Dalic, and then in some additional talks, obviously far from the public eye, as Mr. Pupovac does, suddenly this decision changes. And look at the wonders, then says Mr. Pupovac that the additional analysis found that there were no criminal acts, so let's do OK. But let Mr. Pupovac tell us if it's okay for someone to give their friends 12 million kuna jobs a year that they didn't have until yesterday. That's what Mr. Pupovac is talking about, not whether Fabris Perusco or Ante Ramljak did something illegal. There's something that's moral, there's something that people have to justify when they get citizens' trust and it's not done here. And we're sick of these sensational stories from today to tomorrow, we're gonna be this-that government, we're gonna be moral verticals, and they always vote right. Mr. Pupovac's handles are always where they should be, in the right place, with HDZ and power. So on the other hand, I appeal to all those who have political responsibility and conscience not to support Mrs. Martini Dalic because she did not deserve her behaviour about Agrokor. You can't use the crisis to help your friends. That's not how you do it. And talk about everyone being happy. They are pleased with those chosen at the beginning by Mrs. Dalic and Mr. Ramljak to the temporary Sanhedrin Council, which remains so until the end. Because someone wonders why the Sanhedrin Council didn't always form? Is it really all the satisfaction of a believer when it failed to form? Let him ask. I don't want to list the companies of those who came to me here during these days, who are unhappy and who say that what will compensate them is not what should be, that they can be satisfied with Agrokor in their hands, that they can be satisfied with these vulture funds that came from nowhere, but they've collected their invested money and now they'll still get property. Maybe we can wonder here who's behind those funds? Perhaps the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can rightly ask, perhaps some politicians from the Republic of Croatia are now behind the ownership of Knight Head and these American funds. Who knows who's behind those funds. Who knows? And that's why they had to get involved in this whole story at the end of the day when the situation ended the same way as if it were a pretense settlement, and eventually again, the greatest credentials became the greatest credentials, i.e. owners now. It is something to think about and why we are asking that the Government, namely Mrs Martina Dalic, no longer be Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the very law at first, this was not done to prevent the conflict of the Commissioner's interest. That's not even the case now. And now they've been re-engaged by consultants in which the Commissioner was currently working a few years ago. Such provisions that would protect the citizens and restore confidence in the procedure of temporary administration, if there were such provisions in the law, there are none, and that is not by chance done by us. In the end, I do not want as Prime Minister Plenkovic to call on it, as if he is the only god-given to save this Croatia, and everyone else understands nothing. So they spread out with words and by not respecting what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia think about this particular case, it does not respect what they think he is running the Croatian government, 77% of Croatian citizens, none of which he respects. I just want to say here very simply, when you get trust and responsibility, then you can't use it to help your friends. Point, because it's so hard to accept, Mr. Curray? Or hide behind disasters, job losses, etc. By voting for Ms. Marina Dalic, you will legitimize such a procedure in the future. This government will introduce a rule of conduct, when a problem arises, hires its friends and pays them more than they've ever earned. It's inaugural with a vote for Mrs. Dalic. Or you'll do the opposite and say, no, when a politician gets a responsibility, he can't behave like that and he can't help his friends make $12 million in one year. 12 million kuna, like 250 employees in that same Agrokor, is now earning the company of 1 or 2 employees. And by voting tomorrow, HDZ and HNS will, if you give support to Mrs. Maritni Dalic, very clearly, we are ruling, it is our practice of business, and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will know, next time, if you vote for HNS and HDZ, you voted for parties that allow the minister or minister, that when the crisis comes, you make your friends rich, rich. We are not even a politician in the Croatian Parliament, whose interest is in Croatian citizens, should not be the first. Because now maybe Mr. Ramljak looks at us and smiles and says, "Look, they're talking there, and we've made good money, we don't care, we've made good money, we've made good money." I urge you once again, think good, whether such practice, whether it was in your office, Mr. Curaj or a couple of colleagues from the HNS, is not worth it. Let's make Croatia a normal country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79205	Let's move on, club representative of the HSS, respected colleague Davor Vlaovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79206	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government with ministers, here I welcome everything on behalf of the HSS Club and, when it comes to this topic, about the vote of mistrust to the Deputy Prime Minister Martini Dalic, it is necessary to say that it is not personal, as a person like Marina Dalic, but as a minister, but as a policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, most importantly, one of the most important ministries in the Republic, Ministry of Economy and what crafts and entrepreneurship. Although we have advocated that the Ministry of craft becomes, it remains a special ministry because this way of unifying the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts economy has not been very helpful and craftsmanship. That's one of the reasons why we don't support this kind of policy. And secondly, it should be said openly that the Prime Minister or Prime Minister said this morning, it is good to discuss this topic, it is an important topic for the Republic of Croatia, it is of interest to the public, and it is important that it will eventually be after reaching a settlement. But the truth has to be told that it was only when international financial institutions and the public, media pressure, pointed out the problem, that there was something strange happening in Agrokor, to fake financial reports, to issue bonds without cover, only then came the solution, conditionally said problems and the adoption of the Law on Strategic System Companies, or called Lex Agrokor. So it's only after the public's pressure. Just as only after the public's pressure on the opposition's demands came the debate on the role of the extraordinary commissioners, advisory firms and the fees paid, and then we asked for this debate to be held here in the Assembly, it was decided at the the thematic session of the Committee on Economy, where it was seen, that something was cloudy there, that individuals had provided themselves with property benefits, which should not have been paid to them, already 12 million kn Texo Management, over 500 million kunas of other advisers, while, at the same time, more than 300 small companies, suppliers, the OPG was not paid in full but only 30%, 70% were left unpaid, although the first information was that everything was paid to them. It was a model of up to 5 million kuna of total traffic. Those who had above that were not able to get their resources in full, but only 30%, and they are almost 300 small companies, family economies and the amount you see is about 300 million kuna, as much as they were looking for. And at the time, it was just as much paid to the advisors of the extraordinary Commissioner for the implementation of the Lex Agrokor project and the resolution or resolution of the problem in the company. So the question is why isn't it paid to these small companies, 300 million kunas, but to those advisors. And what I first told the prime minister this morning, and I didn't get an answer from who made the decision on height. Because in the records we received from all the meetings of the interim religious council, there is no decision on how many advisors will receive the funds. Check it out, these records are public, there's no such thing as a decision. So he brought either a commissioner or a tight team where surely something about it would have to be known by the Deputy Prime Minister since she herself said and wrote the law and co-ordinated this. And everything according to the law. On the one hand you have 300 small companies, over 300 million kuna unpaid and 141 advisors and two employees in the Texo Management and 300 million kuna paid. If this had been paid to these small companies, about 4,000 jobs could have been preserved if in Croatia around 70,000 kuna were needed to create a new job. Yes, four thousand jobs. Of course, counselors can't do it for free, but these temporary monks had to make a decision about how much that fee was due to them, and they didn't have to do it because they obviously had to keep quiet so that at least something was paid for them and that they could participate in the process, they couldn't say anything publicly against the fact that both the Prime Minister and the Vice President could hide and say it, so they had to look into it, they could react, they didn't react and it stands. But it's a shame that those companies where employees in these small family economies worked for 2 to 3 thousand kunas, didn't get their money, couldn't plan their development and these were getting millions of dollars for financial advice on future settlements. And what particularly bothers me and us at the HSS is that the settlement decision will be made by a two-thirds majority meaning who is eligible? Banks, scavenger funds, large capital, small suppliers will stay where they are and will be as publicly seen somewhere around 8% in the company's future ownership. The majority share will be by banks from Russia and the scavenger fund and what policy they will be leading tomorrow, whether they will keep that production and those jobs in the Republic of Croatia, and another 80m euros should be paid to other suppliers in the coming years. It's the subject of a settlement, so it's in principle agreed. Is there going to be business in Croatia in the coming years if it suits the banks, maybe it will and if they insist that production in Croatia is destroyed as normally large companies do then there is no production in Croatia. As the processing of meat has been moved from the White Manastir to Vrbovac, so tomorrow these banks, these owners can since decide to shut down the production of wine in Belje, to shut down those jobs. And what I didn't get the answer and I asked on the board shyly was in that draft settlement written by Mr. Ramljak that there would be a reduction of jobs and layoffs of workers and that a special programme would be made about it. Whether it's made, how many extra people will be, whether it'll have some severance and how it'll take care of that extra labor force. Because objectively these companies, these banks will look at their interest, their capital and their profits. The first thing they'll do will go to reducing the workforce and shutting down some non-profit production, that's true, that's a fact and we should talk about it let the public know. And that's why it's good to talk about this topic. But not because it pressures the public and the opposition but what the government should have suggested itself to find a solution, to make a political decision to preserve this production in the Republic of Croatia, to keep these small suppliers still being suppliers of Konzum and other companies within Agrokor. I'm afraid after a deal like this, it won't be. I would also remind myself of the problems surrounding the MOL, the sale of the HEP stock, the purchase of the stake, gave up on it, and the talk was that the minister, or vice-president of the government, promised to grow 10 seats on the working list of the Republic of Croatia and what happened, we fell by 8 seats. ... Okay, slow down, we've got more time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is interesting that after pressure from both the media and the public and us from the opposition, the opposition minister admitted that she was the main author of the law and stood by her knowledge and experience behind it. The truth thus acknowledged that it manages the overall situation in the economy and what particularly bothers me is that through the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, special support has been promised to companies, craftsmen and entrepreneurs operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia within Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. And when I asked if through a tender issued by the ministry for the development projects of the company in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, they would get a little more points to get an advantage or more funding from companies in other regions, it was responsible no, they are all equal, everyone has an equal chance, who first reported his money. And we know that companies in Slavonia don't have enough financial capital and that they can't perform alone and they need help. In particular, this was reflected through the relationship with the amendment of the Law and the list of companies that are of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia from which the port of Vukovar and Đuro Đaković, Slavonski Brod, was removed. And I've already talked about it, and that's another reason why we can't support either the Minister or this government. Because if Đura Djakovic's company, who during the Homeland War, gave its contribution to the production of weapons, forgot that the workers of Đura Djakovic had special vehicles stopped at the entrance, exited the company and refused to release the tanks, that the weapons were produced there, that you took their tram production, that you took their production of explosives, and that you didn't return anything and now you take them off the list of strategic companies and you say you'll take care of them with a good master. So don't worry about the good lord, don't worry about it. Give them 200, 300 million as long as they're missing for recapitalisation, find models, give them a guarantee, provide them with a job, why can't I work more cars for HZ when we know what cars are like in Croatia, and you know it, laugh, but you don't do anything to get jobs. Even more so, for... They didn't get the job, who got the job? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The company that deals with IT technology and glass facades and has quality references. And no one explained what the references were, why Đuro Djapic couldn't get a job. And then the prime minister tells me this morning, "Calm down, go drink water in Slavonski Brod, or breathe, hyperventilate, breathe air in Slavonski Brod." Thank you on behalf of all Brodux and Brodux, on behalf of all 90 000 residents you left without drinking water for Easter because you gave Crodux the opportunity to manage the product pipeline without prior questioning, without prior consent and to have such an incident happen. Someone gave it, who did it? I'm not. Who manages the economy? The government, the Resort Ministry and the lower competent state authorities and inspections. The answer is no one's fault. I think for the Croatian public, it is clear to the public that this is not the way to take real care of people in Slavonia, and here I am glad that there are still people here who are interested in this topic and who listen to this, some are laughing, but we don't think it's funny, we don't think it's funny. For 2016 alone, 806 citizens suffer from cancer in Slavonski Brod compared to 100,000 inhabitants, and 636 in the Republic of Croatia, 26% higher in SB. One reason is probably polluted air and bad water. 3300 inhabitants and fewer in Brod-Posavia It's also about the economy. [[I beg you, now you've gone a little far.]] Because economic effects are such that 3300 inhabitants are less in Brod-Posavia County because they have moved out because there are no jobs in Croatia. Who can provide jobs in Brod-Posavina County and Slavonski Brod? In part, the government and the Ministry of Economy, although not their priority, should, of course, create a framework to develop the economy, from infrastructure to financial support to the economy, and we see what happened in Djura Djakovic. No support for recapitalisation will continue to be reduced by the number of jobs, no regional eastern water has been solved, Sikirevci are in Brod-Posavina County, no water supply has been solved around Komletinac and Vinkovac still drinking water with heavy metals, no water supply has been solved in Novi Gradiška, no adaptation has been completed, water-building of Bačvice has yet to be restored from Novska, Gradiška and Vinkovac to Vukovar and Osijek. I'm going back on the subject, sorry. ... [[Intruder President: A colleague of Vlaovic, I beg you, so the topic is a question...]] The jobs, and already today it is said that Hungary wants to come to Baranja, Belje, through the Russian banks and other companies. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Already today it's written in portals and in the media that... Vukovar will go into possession of some food-processing facilities from Serbia, which is a real danger. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't even matter what property, these jobs matter. If that production will remain, will those jobs remain. I would like to stay and ask you, because most of you will probably vote for you to stay, but then wear that shirt and come back to Belje and have jobs there in Belje and produce wine and return to the processing of meat in Bela Manastir, not to have raw materials driven to other parts of Croatia or outside Croatia, only so we can save life in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. That's what I'm asking you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79207	This has led us to the end of the debate by clubs and we are now going to an individual debate. First call from a colleague, Nicole Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79208	Thank you, Mr. President, I probably wouldn't argue because everything has already been said in that opening speech, but like this, sometimes a man has a need to replicate his colleagues in the presentation, but this new rule of law has led us to a situation where we can just sit there and listen. I've had a chance to speak on behalf of the promoter today, but I mean, here I am talking among colleagues, it turns out that this way of debate in the Croatian Parliament in which someone speaks on behalf of the club, no one has the ability to replicate is an entirely strange situation for any parliament. And yet I stayed in this individual debate because we no longer have that possibility as parliamentary representatives. All the reasons for the denunciation Martina Dalic had already been presented, none of them had been denied by the government, the prime minister did not refer to the most difficult accusations brought, he said that this whole process of large affairs of advisory salaries, which made the government's commissioner go away, that it was one indeterminate, imagine what, I would have said an easy qualification that made the public and the media talk for almost months about what the government commissioner had finally gone and, at the end, the prime minister himself, we waited not to know, for more than 15 days I think that the other colleagues from the opposition had been saying that he had studied the documentation, after studying the documentation he had asked, not directly in the media, but so subtlely that Commissioner Ramljak had to leave, which shows that the whole process had been compromised. That is why responsibility has only one person who has taken over the entire process of Agrokor, it is Martina Dalic, I remember very much alive, and I mentioned it in my discussion of a conflict that I and the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia had about the Lex Agrokor himself, where I insisted on 3 Commissioners, she then replied that she did not sleep in the Croatian Government during the nights because of this law and that we were only complicating things. Imagine if we had a collective administration and then, for us, this whole process would be much more transparent, maybe we wouldn't be able to get into a situation like this if we had left everything to one man and then that man practically provided his former company with a huge amount of money. And I think that the entire public agrees, and besides the Prime Minister himself, and here's our President of the Parliament, I remember his statements about this affair by his advisors, and he himself made statements that HDZ must not suffer any harm because someone has played a game. But someone playing a game has to be held accountable for it. Not only can this man be responsible, but he should be held accountable, the one who suggested him. And in that sense, you're responsible for everything that's happened, for this compromised process, for the very outcome that you've been boasting about in the last few days, we'll see what's going to happen. We all hope and believe and none of us, what fellow Churay said, none of us want anything bad to happen. We want the settlement to be successful, so that as many stakeholders as possible are satisfied, but we can also express certain reserves, because we are afraid that this will all take place. We fear how many jobs will remain in the Agrokor concert, i.e. in certain components of the concert and what will happen in the future. I, as I appeal to the HNS, to minorities, appealed to my colleague Maras here one day to say something, we have the cover of one week that Martina Dalic has to go, but the next day we have another story, but here, colleagues from HDZ who disagree with the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, you have tools in your hands. So your hands are a kind of force and you can mean now about Martina Dalic, condition the ratification of this document if you disagree with it. In that sense, that is why the opposition also timed this initiative at this very time, and we felt that this was a good time, so that the parliamentary majority would be as slim as possible. That is what happened, a colleague of Zekanovic came out of the parliamentary majority, but quickly jumped a colleague of Hrelja, who announced he would not come to Martina Dalic's recall. However, whatever the passing and whatever the result of this impeachment, we do not pretend that we from the minority have a majority. It means the opposition can raise enough hands. But what is important is that we here in the Croatian Parliament, we show that this conflict of interest in Croatia that wants to be wise, which has no tolerance at all to the conflict of interest, according to possible corruption, is simply to open one such debate, so that these things don't happen in the future. And that was our goal, and that's why I, by the way, proposed three Commissioners to you, because of transparency, the whole process. That's what we insisted on all along. All that bad, unfortunately what happened around Agrokor, happened after the Bridge came out of the government. You once said that the experiment could light a candle at the Stone Door, because you run this process successfully, I would tell you that I would very much like to light a candle on the Stone Gate, which Bridge was not part of this compromised process that was happening and that we are not responsible for everything you've done. You remember very well, if we had proposed alternative funding, your colleague from the government, Bozinovic was familiar with everything, he was also aware of the diameter, you avoided coming to that meeting, to listen to that model. I'm not saying he was the best, but I think that I'm this relationship that you don't even want to hear, what kind of proposal Most has, a partner in the government, shows that you've actually been planning this all along. Not as Ivica Todorovic claims to be taken away from Agrokor, everything you claim to be the Government, that Ivica Todorovic came looking for money in the government was true, Agrokor was in huge trouble, but no one can convince me that certain stakeholders at the break of Agrokor had no intention of profiting and ultimately profiting. So the thesis that Ivica Todoric places is not true, but what you're saying in your defense, it also doesn't stand. And here, all I can, I here through an individual debate do, invite all MPs, who feel that such a conflict of interest should not be allowed in any normal, orderly, modern state to vote for the recall of Martina Dalic, but whatever it is, at least after this we will know who is the real opposition here in the Croatian Parliament, and who, from time to time, holds the ladder of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79209	Thank you. Next up, we've got replicas now, right, first of all, the respected representative of Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79210	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Grmoi, I agree with you... A book like this, where there's no discussion, after the club debate, there's no replicas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is sad to see that after the discussion of the club HSS, National Representative Davor Vlaovic, the Minister of Economy smiles cynically, while Mr Vlaovic is talking about the sufferings of the Croatian people left in Slavonia, Slavonski Brod, where crime and indigestion are being covered up, and people are suffering from polluted air, from bad water. And then here's how it all got pointless, I take the headphones, I put the AC-DC on, and I put myself in the skin of my colleagues from HDZ, probably they listen to it like that, honor the exceptions. And just when you listen to it, everything looks good to you, and you don't care what happens, you're playing music and colleagues from the HNS probably listen the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79211	I don't know, you'll probably answer something. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79212	I don't agree with this that this kind of debate in this new Rules of Procedure definitely... and I had the same need to replicate about what he said about these problems in Slavonski Brod being not part of the draft recall. The draft recalls is just the basis for the debate. We here can open up all matters of responsibility to Minister Dalic about the ministry's leadership, and we practically know that she is the right hand of the prime minister and the person who runs the entire government's policy on these issues and makes decisions. So in that sense, I think that colleague Ines Strenja Linic also called a session of the Health Committee, which warned about exactly what his colleague was saying and is definitely a problem that will need to be talked about even more here in the Parliament. Here, in that sense, I thank you for being about it regardless of what is not in the draft of this text, but to my colleague Ines who opened the topic here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79213	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79214	Thank you very much. Dear comrade Grumoja, I would only ask if you really believe that there were then appointed three commissioners, actually those three commissioners if she had appointed this team to do well in Agrokor do we see now after Mr Ramljak's departure which has changed. So the other same company, same consultants, same money, so the policy that was so far continued. If we look at colleagues from the ruling 77-plus coalition who are still invisible then we can conclude that, in fact, they didn't really care about what was really going on today, but everything was focused on just passing away the Bridge initiative of other parties to comment on our presentation at a personal level, and no one actually entered the essences and reasons why the impeachment was sought.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79215	The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79216	Dear fellow Panenic, I don't know what would happen if you were three commissioners, but somehow I believe that out of the three commissioners you could fight for one person who could control those processes. But the management of these coalition negotiations with the HNS has started long before and definitely should have been resolved by a political option that warns of crime, which does not allow crime and anything that is bad will not allow it. Here's the HDZ in another problem, here with the HNS needs to share the prey, but at least no one's warning. It's a little easier to share the spoils than to keep an eye on you and watch what you're going to do, so this is a much more detailed one, and I'd say more ideal partner for Andrej Plenkovic and this crew who spent this. And you yourself know that throughout all this time in our political action we have warned about what is bad not only about Agrokor but also about Agrokor. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79217	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here all morning and we will continue during the day to discuss something that is crystal clear to me, I believe most representatives of the Croatian Parliament from the position and opposition. This is about that something that should be inadmissible in every normal democratic country is obviously allowed to members of the HDZ government, which is that when the crisis situation comes to a solution, you should include those who are close to you and who benefit from that solution, and I am confident that the MPs who will probably raise their hands tomorrow would not support it. And now many of our fellow citizens are wondering why, for example, HDZ representatives, here I am now looking at Mr Kovac and Djakic, who I am sure do not support the fact that someone 12 million kunas in a year are neither guilty nor due, or until then there are no such jobs, and when your friend in the government makes it possible for you and the Commissioner through him to make it possible for you to get such amounts. And as long as people in Croatia are getting poorer, more and more dissipated, where justice does not work, where justice does not work where people go from Croatia, it is almost amazing that with such ease HDZ representatives cover it and that the dead cold, uninterested taking their wages raise their hands in order to cover the people who took millions and millions of kuna on their behalf. Why is that? What's that way for Andrej Plenkovic to hold them? Which, while they themselves are aware that it is not right because Mr. Djakic is safe, he is an experienced man so that he would not be aware that it is not right to have someone over the night de facto receive 12 million kuna at work which was not in a way that the former or then employee of the company enables him to do the job and everything under the patronage of Ms. Martine Dalic. And what made Mr. Stier so important yesterday to discuss fundamental human rights here and Mr. Kovac until late in the night, and here when it comes to the recorded thing that is inadmissible that someone is materially exploited by such a large amount in such a poor country besides so many dissuaded people there is no word, that's okay, we support, that's not a problem. The problem is to protect women from domestic violence, but it's no problem if someone sets up their friend 12 million kunas a year. That's what we keep quiet about. That's what we're gonna raise our hands for. Well, tell me what standards these are, although Mr Stier came from Argentina, there are probably standards a little lower than what they are in Croatia today, but I am convinced that as a representative in the European Parliament and Mr Kovac who was a successful ambassador to Germany saw things from another angle where such things would not pass. And then why protect it here, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, what is not allowed in some normal, polite, civilized European country? What all our fellow citizens see, all our fellow citizens see it. And now you tell me, and you're all grown-up, experienced people from various professions, which is why we're replacing Anta Ramljak, or the prime minister boasted that he'd replaced him, the citizens of the Republic were in agreement, 52% of it was justified, 30%, 29.5 that it's not justified, 18 that he didn't know, and the Prime Minister said here I saw the problem, I replaced Antu Ramljak. On the same day, the same poll, Mrs. Martina Dalic, 66% means 15% more of our citizens see a bigger problem in Ms. Martina Dalic than in Anti Ramljak. Why was Ante Ramljak removed according to the same criteria, and Mrs. Martina Dalic did not? Do you have an answer to that question? Was Mr. Ante Ramljak just a scapegoat to preserve Mrs. Martina Daliæ and to keep everything else going the same way before. You can do this because you have a majority, because you have shown as countless times so far that your citizens' interest is not important, that it is important to maintain the stability of Mr Plenkovic and the HDZ government, how long it takes, that moral standards do not exist and that you choose those topics that are dear to you and that you think must fight. And it is amazing that around some, it is called ideological topics that are not ideological at all, and yesterday they wanted to be presented there by individual HDZ representatives to fight, fight, show, and about the visible, non-transparent behaviour where some succeed with the help of the government to reach millions and millions of kunas it passes the kickings and with a view to the floor, if it is amazing and it is simply unacceptable and there would be anyone who holds on to himself, or to whom it represents and in what way it represents, and we represent all Croatian citizens should oppose it. Because if it goes on like that, then there will always be those who will say so it's allowed, see how it went with... Management, we'll get through, too. The main thing is to have a friend who's in power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am convinced that today after a survey conducted among citizens who have heard all the arguments here, which we have had from HDZ very few arguments because no one is coming forward, it is not a question of the Istanbul Convention, which in turn raises such an urge to oppose the protection of women's rights, but this is just a small intransparency that is tens of millions of kunas, so what is nish, what are we going to discuss about, is that so Mr. Kovac? If we're going to argue about it in general when it doesn't matter at all, that's how you know what you say in preference, it's soup no. It's listed, it's the most normal thing when HDZ is in play and when HDZ is in power, we don't have to discuss it at all because I guess it just needs to be seen as normal in itself. Now, we don't take it as normal and we'll talk against it, so if we have to ask 10 times for impeachment until the end of the term, and trust me, there will be situations like this and by the end of the term that this story about Agrokor will not end, that we will re-launch and commission around Agrokor and that we will not give peace until things like this happen in Croatia. No matter how much you take off and say that the big win of HDZ is that tomorrow it's going to count 77 or 78 hands. It's not any HDZ victory. Ask the people, and you will see what they think. If someone tells you, pats you on the shoulder and says well that you saved Mrs. Martina Dalic, I believe that you will rarely meet such a person in public since the public here is unison on this matter. See, something inadmissible happened, and it's against the fact that it's happening in the future. And I would love to have representatives in the Croatian Assembly with equal passion defend their views, not only about certain things that are important to them, and create images that are not at all there and fight the imaginary dangers they also do not have, but about real dangers such as non-transparent management on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that we see every day in the government of Andrej Plenkovic there is no such thing. Therefore, I call once again on all those who have and the responsibility of political and conscience to vote for the impeachment of Ms. Martine Dalic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79219	Thank you. We have a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of Anka Mrak-Tartish.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79220	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, you have touched a topic in your presentation that is convenient to see, perhaps tomorrow at a vote in the Assembly we will see for the first time something that the HDZ colleagues announced yesterday in the debate. They announced yesterday in the debate that the HDZ decision is to vote on the advice. So we will see if when this vote is in accordance with the conscience only applies to a certain type of law or applies to everything so it will be interesting to see whether it will be applied when it comes to voting on the trust of Deputy Prime Ministers and Minister Mrs. Dalic, perhaps someone in the HDZ has some dilemmas, some doubts that we, as in the name of clubs, have said to an individual debate, so it will be interesting to see tomorrow's vote whether it's only worth it when it comes to the Istanbul Convention or whether it's something we're going to use over and over again and have interesting votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79221	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79222	Thank you very much. We shall see what I expect to see. As I said a little before to you and it's something that clearly in HDZ implies, the usual way of acting. When we're in power our friends, under quotes our friends can get jobs on the HDZ Minister's terms. We saw this five years ago and 10 years ago and 20 years ago in privatisation etc.. It's something that's damaged behavior in HDZ, and maybe, maybe in the future, it won't be, but maybe, I'm wrong, maybe there are some pioneers here who picked up these things while they were in Brussels or Berlin, and now they won't let a practice that wouldn't be worth going on in the Republic of Croatia. I don't know, maybe these pioneers aren't just loud when it comes to violence against women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79223	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79224	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maras, I think you asked a key question, which is the question I asked yesterday in my debate, which is that I am very interested in why some people are so passionately talking about problems that are made up of problems, about the Istanbul Convention that should be human and civilizational evidence for us and that I would like them to also talk about the problems our citizens face, which is that in Croatia there are hungry people leaving, that Croatia is economic downturning despite the growth that, for which analysis itself, shows that this is not real growth. So the young leave because they have no perspective, these are the real problems of Croatia and human rights, the rights of our colleagues, women and the protection of the same within families from violence, I think it is a civilizational achievement, not a problem. Such acute debates would like to hear precisely about these existential problems of every citizen of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79225	Thank you. He'll say something about it, dear representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79226	Okay, please, Mr. Vice President, don't comment on anything, I already asked you once, Okay, I'm asking you to give me back my time then. [[/Intruder Reiner: It was not a question, if the question you would have given the answer. Since a colleague made a comment, you will make your comment. Here you go.]] Can you give me back my time? You have more power than you are aware of, Mr. Vice President, because voting against Mrs. Martina Dalic would give hope to Croatian citizens tomorrow, to see if you will use that power tomorrow. [[Here you are, I'll give you your time, I don't know how, I don't have that power but I'll try.]] Here, that's what I'm interested in. Because our people are leaving, they see terrible injustices, and they see that those who don't leave are and the HDZ is willing to make huge money. Why didn't these masters, financial experts, Skegro, Matic and society build a fund in London or New York and make millions there? Somebody tell me that. How did these experts not take millions of euros there but rather take it, or earn it in the Republic of Croatia? And she made it possible for them to make that policy in this case through Agrokor. Here's to it, and that's why I'm telling you that you have the power, vote properly tomorrow and you'll show strength. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79227	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79228	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Maras, you're calling us here to keep our mouths shut and not to answer your calls, so I'm gonna say it's hard to answer the pamphlets you sent down and misrepresented them and refer them to the procedure. The accusations that are unfounded and certainly do not appear to be that Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, crafts and entrepreneurship have done something so disastrous that they should answer to me. The one who did something that he resigned himself and left. Yes, 12 million kuna is not a moral thing in today's Croatia, and that man is gone. I don't know why this baseless attack on the Deputy Prime Minister is because there's no basis for that. The one who was responsible has left, retired, resigned, and it is not true that the prime minister replaced him and said that he had replaced him. He left because it was concluded that it was not moral, the contract by the manufacturer was not necessary in today's Croatian society. That's what I'm saying. You know that, too. That's what the Prime Minister concluded. That's what Madam Vice President concluded. What makes six things that you're only talking about one thing and six things you've listed and you've even missed a river.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79229	Thank you. Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79230	Mr Djakic, I don't think you've informed, you haven't been here the whole time because you haven't been following the situation, Mrs Dalic never said it was immoral, never, I hope, here she may now say, that it's immoral that Ramljak and that society did, she never said. Secondly, she said that she was behind the whole process, meaning that they were able to get a job like this. And third, she said they were her personal friends. Now what else do you need? What do you need? If you've just said it yourself, it's unacceptable for you, then her responsibility is unquestionable. Friends, she's behind the whole process and she's never been fenced from it. What else do you need? You wouldn't need anything, I expect to see green in your name tomorrow. I expect to see green in your name, Mr. Djakic. No, it's not funny. It's not funny, if you've been honest with me so far and said it wasn't moral for you, then Mrs. Martina Dalic shouldn't be a minister anymore, very clearly, because she's behind it. And still today, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79231	And the last replica is the respected representative of Ivan Willibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79232	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. When we talk about the relationship between politics and business, and in the context of Agrokora, what I was talking about earlier from this pay phone, it should certainly be mentioned. An example of the link between Defence Minister Damir Krstic and Mr Gordan Kolak, a career and two persons has been connected for a few decades. However, in recent years, there was an accident Mr. Kolak was installed No, I'm talking about Agrokor, I'm talking about Agrokor, so the construction power line is owned by Dalekvod d.d. a ownership of Dalekvod d.d. is a consolidated that is part of Agrokor, and the Commissioner, as commissioner, is registered to a trade court in Peru, and was once registered by Mr Ramljak. [[Intruder Reiner: My colleague Sincic, you are now speaking outside the topic.]] So, I sent a financial inspection memo to comb, because there's been financial malfeasance since Mr. Kolak got there, since he's been working for salary according to his own admission of one 50, 60 thousand kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79233	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79234	Thank you very much, colleague Sincic. Connection and networking has been something that HDZ has been working on since '90. and not only in companies, there is a football alliance, Schucker and society, there are other alliances, that is something that makes HDZ think that it can hold Croatia in its hands, that it has networked various structures and that it can generate authorities and win elections, and that everyone else who isn't inside can go from Croatia and don't care. I call on everyone in Croatia to oppose this mentality and that principle, because indeed there will be a million fewer people in Croatia for 4.5 years and none of them will have any of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79235	Next individual debate, she will be a respected representative of Dark Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79236	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government. I would be much happier if you knew that instead of today you were here, in front of a few representatives in the Croatian Parliament in your office at the Ministry of Economy and doing those things and activities that contribute to the growth of GDP, growing industrial production, better employment and so on. But, well, we've got the constituencies and those exhibitionists who enjoy doing absolutely nothing. We would say, in Medjugorje, that you would strike empty straw, and after that, you were happy and satisfied. How does it work, this or that political environment? In the morning at half past ten, they order journalists and tell them what nonsense they read yesterday, then they go back to the bench for half an hour, look at the phones, and what they told the press, convince us, because it's what the media published. In such a game, and in such a scenario, I don't think anyone here feels comfortable, and especially those people who, without shame, go beyond their formal training, talk about some things, in a way that those people who understand them laugh at them, so today we had a story here about growth or the fall of CROBEX, not knowing at all what affects the growth or fall of CROBEX. So then we had a story here that we were dealing with ideological costumes, not knowing at all who created the atmosphere of ideological bones. So then we had a saying here, that in Agrokor, there was no valuable property at all. So we had such nebuloses that we could convince here, really until early morning. But, however, it is a fact. The fact is, it's a process to interpret the vice president, signed by 37 signatories, but if today these signatories gave me one poll and asked them if they knew why they signed that piece of paper, out of those six points, which I'm holding in front of me, 95% of them wouldn't even count three. And you know what this is really about? And I would like to say this to the Croatian public, so the first three points are prescribed sentences of the law. He doesn't ask us why, or who, or how. We can simply, as we have seen on television several times, throw that piece of paper into a basket and tear it 16 times. Point 5 and 6. We haven't spoken a word about her today. We are talking about a single sentence here, from the request in question on point 3. The extraordinary commissioner has chosen advisers on the basis of legal powers. So why don't you dare say what's illegal about it? What is so illegal? On the other hand, we'll put one interpretation aside. This way in the agenda, it's not the interpletion that's waiting for 10 days, it's the stupid days spent like the day that's been waiting for us for 10. And then ask us why the constituency clubs are empty. I'm gonna do it one more time, 'cause somebody's paying us to kick some empty straw. So we also have 37 MPs, signed the following interpretation because the government does nothing, because it does not implement reforms because it does not care about the Croatian economy, because of other things listed in three sheets of paper. If I were to ask here today 37 if they knew why they applied for the government's impellation, 95% of them wouldn't even know 5% of this obvious to say not in front of the cameras, but concentrated, designed with themselves. And now I'm just going to take a short look at some constructive things. Mr. Vlaovic, a colleague of Grmoja, a colleague of Mrak-Taritash, said, it is a shame that there are no colleagues here now because he started well, but apparently the time did not allow him to end it that way. So on one of these future interpretations the government has given its report. Now it would be very interesting, who in the first grade asked all of us together how many of us have read this report? And when someone asks me if I believe more in media writings and what my colleague Maras says in a camera or what the government has given in its report, and the Prime Minister signed, and he signed the following, and that's things and information for the Croatian public. Accordingly, during 2017 Croatia came out of the excessive budget deficit procedure launched in January 2014. In fact, some agencies that are very dear to us when they lower the credit rating to Croatia, which they did twice in the period from 2012 to 2015, because we need to ask who the ministers were then and who the prime minister was then, a groundless fact. But in 2012 to '15. credit rating for Croatia has been reduced twice. For what? Because these people are crazy, and in Croatia honey and milk flowed, not gentlemen. So, in 2017, we slowly began to come out of economic problems and some percentages and some of the figures that in that report gave us under Bullet 1 subtitled macroeconomic movements nicely say: economic growth 2.8% exclusively and at the expense of what? At the expense of increased exports of goods and services which for the first time in 2017 lived with a double-digit number. We'd say another fact, wondering who the pict's are when you look at me, and you need the numbers on the Internet and they're taken for granted because they're a fact. And they're not improvisations. ... And rightly so because what Darko Horvat is saying is a fact of fact, and what Gordan Maras is saying is what he's saying and how he woke up standing on his left or on his right leg. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So in that bulletin one macroeconomic movement unlike all those who claimed today, and fellow Maras and you were the loudest among them, as industrial production fell, as exports fell, as they fell... how the productivity of the construction sector falls, but however colleagues, the figures of this enlisted assure us exactly the opposite. [[The intruders can't be heard.]] Therefore, industrial production in 2017 registered a growth of 2.4%. Also 12% increased exports. The growth in retail trade has seen a growth of 4.7%, so in 2017 the number of employees has increased, etc. etc. etc. So, speaking in this House of Untrust with the Croatian institutions, you're actually opening Pandora's box because by talking to people who, so I would dare say quite a bit of a superficially following the work of this House, I'm getting a handful of information that's being heard in this House when it's actually spoken, whose words actually mean something, and who outside of this assembly is thought to be spending the time of parliamentary deputies and government members in such a vain way and when we're watching and watching various surveys, I don't dare say every 4 years, but in every or every election process, it's a poll that only means something and it's only worth anything. And because of these six things that you're planning on destroying the vice president's dignity, it's real, so that's even a bad joke. But the one best I've managed to find online right now is just one picture you forgot to print. And you showed up next to Brad Pitt and the Croatian public even make sure you're prettier and smarter than him. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79237	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, you've missed your colleague Bunjac, but first we'll give our word because he's lifted a plate with a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 of my colleague Horvat was injured by nothing caused by the insults of unidentified MPs with the statements of exhibitionists, you beat up empty straw, and that's under Article 238, paragraph 5, or the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to warn him because as I would say, his speech talks enough about him, I would let him speak a few more times, it would even give up his debate if he could speak as much as possible because it would give me more for the right, but you should warn him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79239	I now warn you not to exceed your time. I estimate that it's no violation of the Rules of Procedure, but he said even automatically that we're beating empty straw, so he included himself in it, so he didn't insult anyone else, and so I estimate that he wasn't hurt by his rules of procedure. Now we're going to go to replicas that have quite a number. First respected representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79240	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Horvat, so when I went to school, then we usually heard there about how someone didn't come in time for class and you know who was listening? The ones who came on time. So in your presentation, you gave an evaluation of Parliamentarians and said what you think of them, which is your right to say what you think of your colleagues and to say it so publicly. But somehow, since there is no possibility of correcting an incorrect quote, I would say something else. Not only is Vice-President Dalic here but also with Vice-President Dalic and Minister Obuljen Koržinek, and so is the Minister of Agriculture, so if it is about the loss, a lot of them. Otherwise, we have opportunities in the House to see ministers in the current hour and when they represent laws, very rarely we have the opportunity to see ministers, they then send state secretaries who show them or that they don't care about the law or parliamentary representatives but on this occasion we have the opportunity to see them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79241	Thank you, thank you very much. Now we'll hear the esteemed representative of Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79242	Thank you, colleague Mrak-Taritash, for that sentence I memorized, which you dared to say, and I feel the same way as you do. Because of this or this situation in Agrokor, all of us who are part of politics feel responsible. Unlike those who, like I said, instead of discussing crucial and important issues, you're beating empty straw and they feel that way. They'll never admit that they're anything sooner.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79243	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79244	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Horvat, I would also be much happier today if Mrs. Dalic were in her office working on you might be doing a smarter job, but Mrs. Dalic is not in this House because of some exhibitionist representatives as you said, but because she has made it possible for her friend Ramljak to do certain insubordinations at the place of the government commissioner. And that's why he's here. If it wasn't for that, she might be doing something else today. And if there's a councilman's conscience, then Monday he'll be able to do whatever he wants because she won't be a minister anymore. You said what's illegal about selecting a counselor? Well, look, there's a lot of spinning around that mantra, there's nothing illegal about it, it's all legal. Look, if you're looking at lex Agrokor then, but we have other laws in Croatia, you have the Penal Code, so in this Penal Code, there's something called impact trading, which is called guessing, and it should be investigated, and I've already told the media a few times publicly, let the competent bodies come and have them examine to the gentlemen in the Texo Menagment that it's just those who certainly are in the AlixPartners who didn't know where Croatia is on the map, so they just chose the Texo Management for some co-operatives in Croatia. Or maybe someone at some night meeting in the government told them to take that one and that one and you'll have a job with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79245	The answer of the esteemed representative Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79246	So here's one sentence that I agree with you again, part of it just, so that there are sentient representatives, I can only continue the sentence, yes, there are, and on Monday, fellow Dalic will come to work devoid of one stress that you want to afford here today and do much smarter things than he sits here today and listens to, and I'm going to put three dots on to not turn out to be empty straw again. But what's a fact, so all of you or all of us who think that there are criminal, criminal or any action behind this process, there is a criminal application mechanism and then the state institutions are acting on that criminal record. I've never seen anyone who's ever decided to do something like that and dared.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79247	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79248	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvat, you're here saying that we're beating empty straw, no, we're asking questions that the Croatian public is asking of us. 55% of Croatian citizens currently do not support the work of this government. The suspicion of credibility, integrity, and one of the feathers and suspicions is precisely Mrs. Dalic. So Mrs. Dalic made it clear that she was writing the law and that all the decisions that later came out of the table of the law, written with the picture, so she wrote the law together with Ramljak and everything that later came out of the law, came from her agreement with Ramljak. It's called conflict of interest, it's called trade influence, it's called potential corruption. And that's why in Croatia citizens don't trust politicians, and that's why citizens don't support the work of this government right now. And that's why it's up to us to ask these questions in the Assembly's payphone that we're looking for answers and the citizens will assess who's credible and who's not, and who's beating up empty straw.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79249	The answer of the esteemed representative Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79250	Well, my colleague Jovanovic, I fully agree with you, I wish you'd really asked that question. And you're not in that group that beat up empty straw today because so far you've kept your mouth shut and those who've been beating up empty straw, they've recognized each other today and they're laughing out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79251	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79252	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Horvat, I have one question. What happens if small suppliers sue because they remain shorter sleeves in this settlement since they did not know about the fake financial reports and I personally think that there is not only Mr. Todorovic's fault but the policy that enabled him and the people who were in HBOR and who were assigned to the blank and who will pay if they get the suit?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79253	Dear Representative Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79254	This is finally one constructive and real question that I do, and I don't think anyone here can give an answer between us because the question is what would be if it were. If these or such lawsuits are to occur, there are, or there are institutions who will respond to these claims. So far, if I don't have the right information or the right information, let someone correct me, regardless of all the indisputables that have been happening in Agrokor, none of the bad or wrong bases have fallen on the taxpayers' account. And the question I'm going to ask all the time about the restructuring plan is just that. A fellow Ramljak at the moment he was in front of the Parliamentary Committee on Economy confirmed this fact. Since no one was bothered by the sentence at the time that no kuna of what was paid from the Agrokor business accounts stood the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, at this point I have no reason not to trust him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79255	The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79256	Comrade Horvat, it seems that with this sentence that you're beating up empty straw, you've pissed off your SDP colleagues, they may have remained nervous after yesterday's debate. I see now that they want to force the thesis that if someone votes against the Istanbul Convention, they'll also tear down the government. Well, you see, that's not true. Maybe you'd like it that way, maybe you'd like to go after such choices before the Living Wall beats you so you can offer yourself to HDZ to get into some big coalition, I don't know. Perhaps Mr. Maras would like to be President of the Parliament. You know what, I wouldn't want to see such a thing, so as much as you two can go that way, you won't get my hand for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79257	Please don't yell from the bench of your colleague Maras. Comrade Maras, please. The word has a respected representative, Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79258	Comrade Stier, you can't piss off those who know exactly what you're talking about, so that's all they recognize. And I'm going to say a sentence by my colleague Hajdukovic, honoring the exceptions, but those who have been touched by the reaction have just been made aware that they are you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79259	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79260	Dear colleague Horvath. You mentioned the facts most of your discussion. There's only one fact here that we've been listening to since we were nine and a half so far exactly what you said about beating up empty straw. And we're wasting our time Deputy Prime Ministers, wasting our time on the prime minister, exhausting ourselves on the banal stuff and listening to the impotence of the opposition. Because how else do you interpret if someone who's been deputy mayor for four years calls this government that's only a year and a half for some water line of Sikirevi, and he's been there in power or some kind of entrepreneurship minister who's been in that vault and he could have done some things when he talks about thousands of people who've gone like they've gone in these years and a half. So we're wasting time here, and not just today, but with every interpretation. Every responsible opposition only brings together the moment she's sure she'll succeed. This is just what you said, a waste of time, exhausting and beating up empty straw.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79261	Dear Representative Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79262	Comrade Klaric, I'm not going to agree with this sentence of yours there some kind of entrepreneurship minister. My colleague Maras was a prominent entrepreneurship minister and I have just read to you, in his term of office, the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia has fallen twice, and the curse is that the craftsmen, the peaceful and small companies of the Croatian economy, are actually saying nothing about us but fellow Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79263	Comrade Maras, you've re-elevated the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79264	The Rules of Procedure have been hurt in many things, but I will be very attached to one thing, which is that we don't have right now. We don't have a government representative. [[Intruder Reiner: Which point?]] This is the point that a representative of the Government must be present at the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79265	My colleague Maras, I'm warning you, you haven't listed a point, nor has the Rules of Procedure been injured in anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79266	It is evident that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, no matter which point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79267	Yeah, it's obvious you got a warning from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79268	Is there a government representative I'm asking you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79269	I'll give you a heads-up again, for the second time. Please don't throw it away. Now for the fourth time I warn you not to throw it out of the bench. Next time you'll get a warning and you know what's going on in the Rules of Procedure. And if you happen to know the Rules of Procedure, if you'd given yourself a little effort then you'd realize that the government shouldn't be here at all because the government is not a proposing, but you're the Proposer and you have to be here, and they shouldn't even be here at all, but it's normal that they are and it's also to expect that they are. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79270	Dear colleague Horvat. I will not about Mrs. Dalic everything is said, you mentioned here MPs who are not there, that Parliament is empty and will be increasingly empty given the new Rules of Procedure where the deadline cannot be discussed is short here even the vice president doesn't get to look at the clock and his deadline for all these discussions expires. But I think it would be better if this Assembly were to be abolished, it is 50, 60 million kuna per year for wages, the question of how much it costs to keep this building so that we give it to the children for medicines because and so what the Government makes and decides in this House goes by because you who are the ruling majority must press that button that you must, regardless of what you think and simply is the unnecessary role of the Croatian Parliament as a body or the works of the legislative authority in Croatia. We just sit here and fight. The effect is finally the same again, going through everything the government imagines, so let's let the government run everything, so we go home.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79271	Thank you. Here you go, buddy... Thank you, Comrade Horvat, come in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[And we don't know whose straw it is, whose pussy it is, and the worms don't matter.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79272	The same opinion, like you and I, we think today is a wasted day. We'll talk about a lot, but now I've remembered, so we had before Easter, I'll dare say it in my Prelog, a humorous paper that comes out twice a year, it had a very interesting eminent title, but I'm not going to talk about who that interesting jump is going to go on again, you're going to recognize the man sitting here among us. It was in the title, he overdosed, and then we all ask him what, with replicas in the Croatian Parliament. So, it's no big deal, that the new Rules of Procedure go on telling you, so behind each individual debate you can get involved in the debate, and there's no reason why we can't keep this dynamic that we're slowly introducing into continuity, because it must be better and more meaningful, than those stories we've had the opportunity to listen to for the last year and a half days.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79273	Thank you very much, colleague Horvat, thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79274	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Horvat, here you have questioned the legality. Decisions, to engage the company, means it was Ramljak hired the company Texo that I would essentially introduce you to the corporate governance code of the Zagreb Stock Exchange. So it clearly states, so it's not the law, but it applies to all those who list shares, the shares are from the Agrokora system of the company, since it's... Management, we also believe that it is the manager who ultimately makes those decisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is clear that there is a conflict of interest, that when a member of a administration who is not neutral in relation to the subject of a decision cannot influence decision-making, means that they must not make such decisions and is considered to be under point 3.3.6.1 of business between the company and the management members, where it is stated that, for the members of the administration and the associated persons or the associated persons, everything that is done must be on the market assessment and assessed in particular by an independent body. I believe that here, in fact, an independent body was supposed to be the ministry that was to receive that information, that they would be engaged and evaluated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79275	Thank you, Comrade Horvat, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79276	Comrade Panenić, I fully agree with you, but one reminder for you and all MPs. Eminent name, which as a crisis management came to Croatia, was here for 7 days and pointed out the invoice that paid him 11.4 million kuna, which today is a lot, which is little. In a proportional calculation, one year and a half days and three months added. People's engagement, is that 300, 400 or 500 million kn much or little? Who's talking about it here in this House today? Someone who hasn't given himself a second of time, no desire, no will, no intention of knowing how much such management costs on the European or on the world market. If we all agreed that Mr Alvarez deserves in his 7 days of €11.4 million, try to calculate and convert the days into the amount that Alvarez would take from the account of Agrokor and these suppliers if he had stayed for a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79277	Thank you. A colleague, Maras, has re-arranged the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79278	The article, Mr. Vice President 121, is here if you're giving me lessons, that I should have read, then read you, which says that the government must have a representative at a session to discuss the bill proposal, other acts, opinions, etc., etc. So, the government doesn't have a government representative at the session right now, so I'm asking you to secure or terminate the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79279	It's simply not true that there are no government representatives, no, it's simply not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79280	Mr. Vice President, the government has appointed Mr. Andrej Plenkovic and science doctor Martin Dalic to be representatives. Where are they?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79281	I told you again what I already told you once, which is that it applies when the government is a proposing. I'm sorry, but it is, and now I'm giving you a second warning. Now I'm telling you about this second warning, and in turn, you're losing your right to speak of this point further. You can complain if you feel that I am wrong about the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. ... Read it, then you will, and look at it more precisely, and it will be made clear to you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The next replica is a respected colleague, Djakic, please. Here you go, colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79282	Thank you very much, by the same article, I believe that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, because in fact you should give the same interpretation, so I would advise you to direct the same committee, that what you are interpreting is clear. I think it's just as right then, and so is my colleague Maras, because we don't have government representatives here and that's a fact, and this remains your free interpretation, which I don't know, that it's credible, or that you could accept as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79283	I have no reason to, ask for any interpretation, read Article 236 and it will all be clear to you read article 236, and it will all be clear to you. If anyone thinks it's hurt, there's a procedure. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79284	Mr. President, you're wrong and Article 121 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure and counterpart Maras rightly said that because it clearly states here that the Government determines its representatives in the event of a debate on the bill and other acts. This is another act and you have no autonomous right to interpret the Rules of Procedure yourself in this way and you have for no reason taken away your right to further discussion at this session. And you're wrong and you know you're wrong and there's always a problem with you, with no other chairman. And you're always causing some kind of reaction and throwing people out of this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79285	Comrade Djujic, first of all, I didn't throw anyone out of this assembly that's one thing. The other thing is you're wrong and it's not exactly what you're saying. I said which article of the Rules of Procedure relates to that particular problem. Here's a colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have injured Article 237 because it is clearly said for what and 238 where the reasons for voicing the restrictive measures are said. My colleague, Maras, has only done a bit of damage to the Rules of Procedure, and you have concluded that there are no injuries, but will you give me a warning because I've brought up a breach of the Rules of Procedure? I mean, where are we gonna go with the debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79287	Thank you very much. Here are my colleagues Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79288	The Honored Chairman has really injured Article 121. You have made a warning, which is in fact your urgency to remove an MP who, in fact, explains why the non-confidentiality of Vice President Dalic should be voted upon, and the article should be injured because there is no government representative present at the debate, and therefore it is necessary to suspend or postpone the discussion due to the lack of presence of a representative of the Government. You have injured Article 121, and we ask that this session be terminated until the Deputy Prime Minister returns to the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79289	I'll tell you one more time this is related, read the context of the Rules of Procedure. This applies when the Government is a proposing. In this case, the government is not a proposer, you're the promoter. ... Please don't throw it out of the bench! [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] My fellow Son, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79290	Thank you, Chairman. Article 238 is injured. Namely, Government Article 238 has been injured. [[/Intruder Reiner: Please allow your colleague Sincic to say what he wants to say. Here you go.]] The ruling majority actually insults the opposition. There are constant problems with the government's representatives. Please fix it more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79291	Comrade Pernar, there you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79292	Chairman, I think you've made a mistake about Article 121, and what's interesting is that we don't have any more breaks, we're limited to replicas, but we can point to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure on a day-to-day basis. Keep that in mind And I'd like to ask you to bring your colleague back to the debate after all, that's all. [[You can, you can. Of course not. And you can get a warning from me if you abuse it.]] That's all. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79293	I again refer to all those who think that this is wrong, to instruct a request to interpret the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79295	Mr Vice-President, according to the new rules of business regarding this item of the agenda and the latest SDP situation, it is requesting a 10-minute break to consult on how we will proceed and to allow you to reconsider your decision to which you have given your colleague Maras this second notice of exclusion because there were elements in his protest that he might not be so punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79296	Of course I'll give you a break of 10 minutes. I'll see you in 16.14 minutes. 1601 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,11 HOURS]] We have a replica of the respected representative of Mira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry that Mr. Horvat isn't here, I just wanted to say that my conscience doesn't allow me to allow the SDP to be a fraction of HDZ, that's not what Franjo Tudjman wanted, we won't allow it. Let the SDP do its job. But I wanted to ask my colleague Horvat, to do... one good deed. Namely, I saw the SDP interview in the Slovenian daily, the SDP sites reproduced it and I ask my colleague Horvat to volunteer to help his colleague, Maras, as an engineer, he has prepared engineeringly for this debate very well, and he has done it thoroughly to help his colleague Bernardić not to say that arbitration is a reality anymore because Croatia has come out of it, it has bound him and all of us here. And I must congratulate once again the former president of the SDP... who initiated the procedure of leaving the arbitration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79299	Thank you. It didn't have much to do with anything, but good. There you go, fellow Djujic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My conscience doesn't allow me to move so easily over this. So the article was injured in 240 you abused the institution of caution and you gave colleagues to Maras an unwarranted reminder just before by taking away the words of the second and I beg you to do so and we gave you a break to reconsider, I ask you to withdraw it. On the other hand, counterpart Kovac was now talking about a topic that is not at all the subject of debate Okay, but that's less important. [[I mentioned it to him.]] I'm just asking you to correct the mistake of restoring your speech to your colleague Maras because here you are, and the MPs are calling him all the time, man doesn't even have a chance to tell anyone about himself through replicas. Admit that you have made a mistake or I ask you to replace the Vice-President and have someone come and read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79301	Thank you. You're a little out of line right now. I could give you a warning about that, but I won't, so of course I can't think of changing my attitude. Whoever thinks I'm wrong has a normal business path to deal with it. I ask you, however, to anyone who thinks that I was wrong to address the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and to assess whether I was wrong or not. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16:30 A.M.]] I'd like to give my word to a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79303	I've already given my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79304	Here you go. ... [[The intruders can't be heard.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79305	All right, then I'll look for a breach of the Rules of Procedure after the hearing. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, I was going to talk first about hurting the Rules of Procedure, but here, I'm going to talk about some other things to begin with, since some colleagues have mentioned it. I spoke yesterday, I am speaking today, and I would like to talk very strongly about the real problems of Croatia, which are the problem of corruption, the problem of the partner economy which is why our young people are leaving. It is not a problem of the Istanbul Convention as a civilizational reach, and I am particularly pleased when lessons are received from the people who are here, you will see in the video standing on a press which requires the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, if I am not mistaken, this is my colleague Kovac, whom he can talk about credibility or consistency? So now we go back to other things, to the economy, to the subject. Why did we ask Minister Dalic's recall, to call this government? My colleagues on the right side of the assembly often imputed in that government of Zoran Milanovic that it was unnatural, then I could call this government not only unprincipled and commercial, but also the government of conflict of interest. Because the conflict of interest is at every turn in this government and not only from Minister Dalic, some of the other ministers, too. When we talk about INA, when we talk about Agrodor, etc. etc. A lot has already been said, I will only tell you in a few sentences and think why I no longer trust Minister Dalic. First of all, Commissioner, Special Commissioner Peru was at a meeting in the government. It's good that he's coming to the government, it's good that he doesn't drink coffee before his appointment by catering facilities with some who have privileged information, but I still don't see what he's been looking for in the government and what he's been looking for at a meeting and watch out for now, not just with members of the government, not just with the MPs, but with some people who aren't either, neither. What was he talking about? On the draft deal, keep an eye on the settlement draft, the prime minister I've been listening to hasn't talked about the draft deal, she's the minister. So we're talking about something that's not a settlement yet, that you don't get me wrong, I don't mind a settlement, but it's a deal by the Prophets, it's not a settlement in which the government has any influence, or any role besides bringing Lex Agrokor, and I was saying when we brought him in, I'm saying now that Lex Agrokor was a bad idea. That the state was supposed to be a mediator, not take matters into their own hands, and who's going to pay in the end? You've got online commenting on what this whole Agrokor case actually looks like. Someone's gonna pick up the creams, and who's gonna pay at the end? And the people will pay him, and who else will. So, I'm not impressed at all when the draft settlement is presented as a major reach of the government, I think that a much greater reach of the government would have been if it had been a constructive mediator, rather than, I say potentially and damaged the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia. Also, throughout this process, various consultants, advisors, millions of kunas have been spent on it, so look only in the INA, we want to talk about credibility? Christmas Eve 2016, pompous announcements about the renationalisation of INA. Only a few days ago were finally elected advisors, consultants who would help the government do so. This government is unable to conduct a competition, let alone something else. Two years is practically what they need. So we're talking about different consultants, consultants,... And look at the wonders of those trustees, the people close to them from the government, etc. They were working for these companies, a big coincidence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it's the best school example of a partner economy, and you, me, come here and give me some advice, and I'll be back to you when I'm no longer in the government, or I'm not a commissioner, and that's why we're here where we are, dear colleagues and colleagues. That's why our fellow citizens, my fellow citizens in Slavonia, look at it and they've had enough and they're gone. Even people who have jobs are leaving because they're disgusted to watch this. My colleagues and colleagues, why does Minister Dalic no longer trust me? I think the Ministry of Economy should come up with key reforms. 2018 is announced as the year of reform, and here we are in the 4th month where are these reforms? I don't even see a r of reform, if reform is an interpretative statement with the Istanbul Convention then we really are reformers, and if it isn't, and I'm afraid it isn't, then I don't see where these reforms are, I don't see where our economy is so relieved. I continue to watch people open companies in Ireland, the United Kingdom, Germany because it is too expensive in Croatia, because we choke in every way possible entrepreneurship. Appropriations, parafiscal duties, taxes, etc. etc. It's a chain of indifference, and now I'm not talking about everything that's public knowledge. So reforms are the direct responsibility of Minister Dalic if you ask me. There's no R from the reform either. The government's responsibility as a collective body, of course, as well as the president, but also this minister. It's very interesting that the conflict of interest provision didn't go in on purpose, I can only say on purpose in Lex Agrokor. When we suggested it, then we were evicted and outvoted, and now it shows why that provision has been abandoned, precisely because of this kind of ortical bargaining, the sad co-worker and fellow regrettable. Dear friends, I don't need a Commissioner to read me the balance sheet and the financial reports of Agrokor. I see very well what it says there. And take a little effort, so basic financial literacy is needed to read it yourself. The prime minister says, we'll draw the lines when this process is over. Sure. But then it might be too late. And what I can tell you and what you can read from paper and what no one has denied is that Agrokor is more in charge than he was a year ago and that there are fewer people in it than it was a year ago. What happens by the end of that process, when it's over? It's just, I can't predict it, but I'm afraid it won't be any good. Yes, the company will be saved, owned by, who knows, how many people will end up working there, who knows, who will pay the debts, who knows. But I know who's gonna pay the debts. And that's why I think we made a big mistake here. So I'll do it again. This government is a conflict of interest. A good part of this government has privileged information and apparently shares it. A good part of this government has interests in various companies that are at the heart of the government's interest, from Agrokor, INA, further. In addition to the definition of the word conflict of interest in the Croatian encyclopaedia, pictures of some members of this government can stand, and that is why I call on you tomorrow to voice no confidence from the vice presidents of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79306	Thank you. We have a few replicas. First of all, he's a respected representative, so we'll do the replicas first, won't we? ... Here's my colleague Jovanovic. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79307	Thank you very much. Col. Hajdukovic, you are the government in which Mrs. Dalic, vice president, described her with 3 words, conflict of interest, corruption and a partner economy. So it's a very serious and difficult description, but it's actually an answer to why young people leave because in a large poll that's recently been published, the main reason was corruption. And I'm asking you, what do you think, this government has another vice president. The vice president came from a company that recently registered, behold, miracles, the activity of repairing aircraft, and for the past 15 years the company has been constantly on the route of Croatia-Israeli. Do you think it's an accident or do we see another conflict of interest at the door?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79308	The answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79309	My friend, you must be wrong. No, no, no. This government conflict of interest, come on, please. The fact that members came from Agrokor, what one's spouses do in INA, that it happens that one vice president also has to do with Israel from which, behold, miracles, we buy airplanes, no, you've certainly made a mistake. That's the most transparent thing I've ever seen in Croatian history. The most transparent, purest, the best, the nicest and the fairest. This government conflict of interest? Come on, please, buddy, you must be wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79310	Next... Representative Davor Vlaovic. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79311	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Hajduković, I report to you for the replica because you mentioned the problem of eviction, and in my debate I talked about the problem of eviction from Brod-Posavina County where I said that from 2013 to 2016 12892 residents were evicted, only in 2016 over 3300, the State Statistics Office. Because of those who laughed when I said that, so I'm talking about relevant data, and I believe that for Osijek-Baranja County they are even more devastating. And precisely the influence of the government, the Ministry of Economy and the problems of Agrokor will have a great impact on this and certainly also the future of Belja, Vupika, PIK Vinkovci and all other companies within Agrokor's concern will in many ways determine whether there will be current places, whether people will stay and whether they want to at all, whether there is trust in this government, and 77% of the citizens said there is no trust in this government and therefore here, I support your debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79312	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79313	Thanks a lot, buddy. I'll just supplement what you said. So, I want to illustrate to you how much migration from Slavonia is, therefore, from the area from which we both come to achieve the orderly proportion. A town in Slavonia recently opened a tender in which he hired 12 people. Five or six years ago, you know how many people would have responded to that contest? 400-500, that was a problem holding the test. Do you know how many have now come forward? It's not 20. That didn't even give 15 access to the test. Now, that tells you how relaxed Slavonia is, and unfortunately, you're right that when people look at this corruption, that when they look at this partner economy, I look to you – you, to me, so of course they're wondering what I'm going to do in this country? What's my kids doing in this country? It's our responsibility as an opposition to point out these problems. These are real problems, not whether we're going to protect women from domestic violence. Well, of course we will, but it's spin so we don't talk about what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79314	Thank you. You've been breaking the Rules of Procedure on yourself or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79315	So when you didn't give me your word, when I asked for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79316	No, no. You first asked for a replica, uh, what, for a word. Al, good. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79317	So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think you've hurt Article 240, like your colleagues asked us to take a break and consult, that you've misused the word-absorbing institute and that you used it inappropriately on a colleague of Maras, and since the break has passed, I'm asking you again if you've reconsidered, have you given up?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79318	I've already said that, so what you're doing right now is abuse. Let's not do that, come on. I said very clearly my position, however, I asked my colleague Maras to endure, if he thinks I was wrong, a corresponding document to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, so that this matter should be cleared once and for all if it were unclear to anyone. It's not for me, but if it's unclear, that's it. Comrade Bunjac, you've already had a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so now we're not gonna keep talking about the same thing, are we? You picked up, you said, I told you. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79319	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would like to warn you that you have violated Rule 122(2), which reads: "The requested opinions, views and proposals of the Government in cases where it is not a proposing Government is obliged to deliver to the Parliament and to designate its representative". So the government is obliged to give a representative even when he's not proposing. Therefore, to claim that we are here must be, and that no one from the government must be true. Therefore, your measures were too strict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79320	You have read correctly that the government should appoint a representative, however, and should give an opinion, but it does not say that the representative should be here if she is not the proposing. Again I say I ask you to seek the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system if you think this question is unclear so far, so it has not changed in the Rules of Procedure, just to make it clear to everyone. That's how it's been in the Rules of Procedure for years. It wasn't a problem at once. So if someone thinks that's the problem, let's get it straight the way the Rules of Procedure predicted. I will now ask my colleague Lovrinovic for an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79321	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here today we heard people here wondering if it made sense that this day was in vain here, what we're wasting our time so we won't be able to replace Vice President Dalic. Here, too, Prime Minister Plenkovic came in his diplomatic manner to give high parts to others, so I can say he is smiling at our efforts, and he shows neither trace nor a handful of responsibility for everything that is happening in Croatia. It is our task, and it is fortunate that citizens at least follow this as our task is that very dear citizens as an opposition in this case a united opposition, we show that we are still taking care of what is happening in Croatia and that we want to change the situation. The Party Change Croatia does not settle down with this mode of work, so that is why we are called. The structures that have capital in their hands have taken into their own hands and political power. and what was a political elite has become political prey, and that is why we are where we are from Brussels, Frankfurt and other centres of power. Immediately to say party We change Croatia supports the request for Mrs. Martine Dalic's replacement for two reasons. One is due to a failure in the so-called. the rescue of Agrokor concerts, and others because of the extremely poor economic situation and the manipulation of economic indicators. But let's get back to the core of today's debate. Very simplistically, if Commissioner Ante Ramljak and Minister Martina Dalic admitted that they were guilty of the bad law of withdrawing money through consulting services and if, therefore, Commissioner Ramljak submitted an irrevocable resignation at least from moral but also many other factual reasons, the resignation should undoubtedly have been submitted by Mrs Dalic. But it continues with its arrogant and boastful attitude, insulting the intelligence of all Croatian citizens insisting on their conduct, and in the future it will certainly prove both biased and possibly illegal policies. That is why the united opposition in this case has raised this issue and wants to save the face of Croatian politics that made the Minister and Vice-President of the Government who committed, allowed or approved many irregularities over all of this shift. Instead of responsibilities and resignations as a desirable moral act, it again corresponds with boastful and even more determined work to participate the Croatian economy and to favour foreign interests. The Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia thinks that this settlement and confirmation of its good work is saving her from responsibility. But we see what's going on, the deal hasn't really worked out. What was the role played here by Mrs. Dalic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia? So they were just intermediaries in playing the interests of the East-West, more specifically American and Russian interests, it's quite clear and let's not deceive the public, let's just say it openly. What's the connection to this oil refinery deal on the Bosnian ship? Let the government explain it. So what happened to the incident, what's the connection to this deal with the floating LNG terminal? The great forces deploy their influences here, tell the Croatian public what it is. Well, let's be honest, the Russian banks have offered what they've come to offer before. The Knighthead Fund is the only one short-term one-off in the lending business of one billion euros. Well, didn't Ivica Todorovic himself ask the government for 2.5 billion kuna about 300m euros for liquidity, and you, Mrs. Dalic, unnecessarily loaded an extraordinary manager with another 760m euros in debt to Agrokor. I don't want to get involved in the business of a private company, but as a citizen and a representative on the side, I can see that it was unnecessary loading of the debt. What was the extra charge of the debt? And to increase one geopolitical force's ability to share in the future ownership structure because the other side had a billion-and-a-half euros in claims before that. So according to the success of your settlement, and already about 2.5 thousand workers have left the Agrokor system in Croatia in the past year. You are the PR Government, which is why you probably needed to double the budget, budget for work, for the Government of the Republic of Croatia's office because it needs to be patched up, it should all be settled so that people get the impression that everything is good. You, Vice President Dalic, have never explained what those billions of euros were spent on, I repeat again, I asked the prime minister, he avoided the response, then fled across Mark's square. If you've spent 400 million euros, 3 billion kunas to please, settle the supplier, if you've spent five hundred million kunas for consultants, if there's a billion kuna in the account today, and tell us where are those 3 billion kunas? You never explained that, why are you hiding it? You'll have to explain it eventually. If that $3 million was too much, it means you owe that concert for nothing, he's not mine, but a man can't help but notice it. The courts will obviously have a lot of work to do about it. So is the draft of this settlement the right solution? No, there's a lot of strangers, possible lawsuits and so on, but what's the strategic interest of the state, in which we have to interfere as advocates, as politicians? We need to see the strategic interest in agriculture, and Agrokor has large combined farms in Slavonia and Baranja. There was supposed to be a concept for small OPGs to be linked through cooperatives, to Konzum, to place their goods on shelves and thus to keep the small manufacturer and his family where they live. You are not in any document and you do not mention it and therefore you have signed the emigration still means the discharge of Croatia. I'm sorry there's no gentleman here from the SDSS Popovec, what his compatriots say in Baranja and Slavonia who live on it, they certainly won't be satisfied that they're going to rip apart, that they've ripped up their roads there, but they've left them, no one's buying them goods, and they're falling apart. Is that their election base? Are they really fighting for their own people or are they trading? Here, I'm glad he's coming right now and the Prime Minister, and I welcome him especially here. Now what else do you say here about this case? For example, Agrokor we saw the following, we saw how a private state works so that this country, the Croatian state they have defended, actually created, freed the patriots, or Croatian defenders and gave it to the Croatian people, is alienated and our task is to bring it back to the Croatian people from the hands of the people who privatized it. What did Mrs. Dalic and Mr. Prime Minister have to do with the bonds without cover? That's billions of kuna. That's what you go to prison for in normal countries. What did you do there? No one takes responsibility for anything, hence the more cracked and heavy words, the more a man has nothing to say to remain observant because here are the responsibilities and other things unknown. So, what's the second reason, to get away from Agrokor now, your economic policy has been completely missed, where Mr. Prime Minister, now that you've come, where you've got that good study of the IFO Institute from Germany, you've thrown it away, now you've got nothing. You run an economic policy with nothing, you live in a non-conceptional state, and that's how you solve it, that's how you lead us. The rates of growth only for the payment of interest on government loans should be 3 and a half percent, and you didn't do it either. There is no development here, we are the second weakest developed country in the EU with 330,000 blocked ones, you don't mention them, so this is the defeat of an economic policy, you actually have nothing. Croatia is moving towards recession again, I say responsibly, and therefore you, Mrs. Dalic, should resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79322	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit. The first is the respected representative of Orsat Milenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, so you've talked a lot about the reasons that concern Agrokor, I'm not going to get into it, that's one story that's started, which we all need to be in the interest of ending it positively, I think it's in everyone's interest, I'm afraid that as the government has set it up, it won't. But what I'm actually more concerned about, and what I think is a bigger problem, and as far as the vice president and the minister are concerned, it's the absence of any reform. So we are a country not long ago marked as the weakest country in this regard in the European Commission's report. We're a country, this government spent a year and a half without any, any reform that could be seen. And that's what you taught on what you said, periods of low interest that ceases, a growth problem that doesn't allow us to move on, which is gone, and I would ask you to comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79324	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79325	Thank you, fellow Milenić. Well, you see, I got a letter yesterday from Mr. President of the Parliament, I begged him before Easter to put exactly the European Commission's report on 73 pages, where he writes a whole series of remarks and criticism to the government over the lack of reforms, and so there are no big imbalances in Croatia. Mr President-in-Office of the Parliament, it suits me to cut back around the circuit to go over the board, left, right, so it tells me that this House will not deal with important issues, but will deal with ideology and others. Therefore, I ask you again to support me, this is a common interest, and here is the Prime Minister, schedule anything, let's call it whatever it wants, to consider the European Commission's letter on the 73 pages, you just said it was expected and amen. So that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79326	As far as my letter is concerned, I've just explained to you the procedure as it comes to the agenda, which you should know for yourself as an agent. It's my job to explain to those who don't know. Dear fellow Alexic, your turn now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79327	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague Lovrinovic, you say Minister Dalic laughs at all of us. Well, she's actually laughing because she's successful. No one can say she's not successful. She's been on her agenda, the agenda she's been carrying out, ever since I've been following her, she's been very successful. So she's doing this job very successfully, which she chose to do. But what I blame her for is an agenda she does not implement, which is an agenda for protecting Croatian citizens from the illegal business of Croatian banks. And now I'm afraid of the following situation, I've read in the media, it's suggested that Minister Dalic could be the future governor of the CNB. And I'm afraid of that, because I've barely managed to get Governor Vujčić to say here publicly in the assembly that the banks had to warn us about the risks, he's never said that before. And now that I'm talking to the future governor about it, she's just gonna laugh in my face and I'm not gonna be able to do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79328	Thank you, answer, for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79329	Well, I wouldn't comment on who's going to be where, etc. It's stories for other situations, for other people. However, I would like to say the following, gentlemen, you who follow, you who pay each month your pension salaries, at the obligation pension funds have lost in the case of Agrokor, more than 5 hundred million kuna. That must be said, no one here from the government has explained to the pensioners, the future pensioners, why it came down to who's going to settle it. And around here, mandatory pension funds are praised that it's a small loss, that it's a much larger property, etc. Everything in this country is relativizing. I don't blame the Prime Minister, he's a lawyer by education, but he's left everything to the person who's burning and burning and who only protects the financial oligarchy. It destroys Croatia's real economy and production. And that's the way to our doom.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79330	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Hajdukovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79331	Thank you very much. Here, colleague Lovrinović,... As the Latina would say, here's the government of conflict of interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I guess they dared come to the assembly, now that fellow Maras can't argue, but good. I agree with you, many questions remain open here. We don't know much, and in fact, I blame the government most here, above all, intransparency. You're some kind of questionable principle, and I'd just like to repeat it one more time, one that bothers me. Who wrote Lex Agrokor? I still don't know. What if the Constitutional Court declares lex Agrokor, unconstitutional, after a settlement, say, what then? How much will it cost for consultants, advisors, all those armies of people, who help the government consolidate Agrokor, which are the results anyway. We said, we, Agrokor is more in charge, less people work in Agrokor than a year ago. And in the end, who's gonna pay for all this, where's the money from?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79332	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79333	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, I am not allowed to answer these questions for one minute. Well, the government itself boasts that the best companies, in fact, the entire system, almost 80, 90% of the system is operating positively, etc. It's called discounted cash flows in the economy, so future profits. If that's how they admit it, then why did they do what they did? So it turns out that the company could have worked before lex Agrokora, that the court took over commercially, so let's say, legally running the rescue, with more active participation of the state. The diameter around here boasts that everything will go to waste. So we, sir, are falling apart with it and without it. You have a good public appearance to act as an aspirin to make it easier for people to suffer this collapse. So here we warn you that you have a completely wrong economic policy. It's about time you changed the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79334	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague, Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79335	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've heard from my colleague Maras, he sends his regards to you all, and he said, if his victim contributed to the whole government coming to the Parliament, and we finally get some answers, that he's willing and willing to sacrifice ourselves in the future. But, secondly, my colleague Lovrinović, my opinion is that he will not contribute either, because here we have not yet received an answer from the example, what he thinks about whether it is normal for him, that the way the company Texo Managment was engaged in consultations in Agrokor, since Mrs Dalic at the meeting of the Committee on Economy, said that she was the author of Lex Agrokor, that she was assisted by Mr Ramljak and Mr Matic. And behold, at that time, Mr Ramljak was also an employee of the texo Management and that this particular firm, later engaged as a consultant, although previous years of references and incomes of the company did not give anything to be hired. So it's a short time, but it's obvious they've benefited from it and we haven't gotten the answer in diameter yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79336	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79337	Dear fellow Djujic, I said before noon that there was an Agrokor 1 affair and after lex Agrokor, and Agrokor 2 affair. About the scales of incestous relationships, in Agrokor 2, I can't take a shit, because I simply don't have detailed data, but I'm using the opportunity again, to ask the diameter, to ask him, to finally say, was it immoral at the time, to hire companies that were connected, because he, you remember 15, 20 days kept quiet, avoided, and even on the plane when they were traveling. So we don't have that answer to that question. If he's silent means he supports it, and if he doesn't support it, then it means he should change himself, his vice president for the economy. Because there are a few people in the government who do good work. But those of the Deputy Prime Minister can't come to terms, because it burns and burns, it holds all the ends of the economy in its hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79338	Let's move on with the debate, now it's time for the esteemed colleague Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79339	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister and members and members of the Government, both respected colleagues and colleagues. As I was saying in the morning, I'll do it again now. Therefore, the main reason why the opposition raises the issue of trust among the Deputy Prime Ministers is the Emergency Administration Act, i.e. the implementation of the Extraordinary Administration Act. And I said that instead of launching a proposal to question the trust of the Vice-Presidents of the Government, that the opposition should be put on a little bit of ash and silence the moment in now signing the principle agreement on the settlement shows that the law is well-designed, that the law is well realised and that all those fears the opposition expressed a year ago, stated to the Croatian public, that they showed unfounded. During the adoption of the Law on Extraordinary Administration in Trade Companies of Systemic importance, it was said that it would actually result in a huge cost for the state budget and for Croatian taxpayers. Besides, inability... Any excessive proposal, the opposition argued that only one article of the Banking Act would best be amended and that it would solve all the problems in Agrokor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At that time, we argued, from experience in the conduct of bankruptcy in the Republic of Croatia and when the Croatian judiciary was never faced with such a company, which is practically the most important and most important Croatian private company, where only in its system about 70 smaller companies, in order to stifle the Croatian judiciary, but from the experience of the implementation of bankruptcy, we all know that suppliers for whom we have all been during this year and those Croatian suppliers, whom we have all advocated during this year, would be, so I say, from the experience we have for many years already through the implementation of the Bank Act, would be charged around 4%. The second proposal for opposition was to enter into the pre-departure settlement system although I will remind you that by then Agrokor was a company that was supposed to go into bankruptcy by all characteristics and indicators, which is almost impossible then to enter the Pre-departure settlement Act, but I will remind you that it was by any chance that the opposition was being heard, that through the Pre-war settlement Act the previous administration, so Mr Todorovic continued to manage Agrokor, and that from the experience we have in the Croatian legislation suppliers to which I am returning again, Croatian suppliers employed by around 150 thousand employees would have been compensated 44%, as far as that is concerned, those claims are in Croatia through this Law, but this compensation lasts a long number of years. And up to 20 years. So what kind of situation would be with Agrokor if it were to go through the process, I can't speculate here right now, but it's certainly not even possible to get into the process, and it would eventually result in bankruptcy again. Therefore, the only right path has been chosen by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to move with these two laws with a third lex-specific law, which, as I said, the European Commission proposes, for companies of particular interest for a particular country, an EU member, to turn into a special law, and in this sense, our law on extraordinary administration will become part of the EU's investment law, because it is best on this example to show how well it has been affected and how far the Government has found its way with the Emergency Administration Act and how and in what way under (a) the number of employees, under (b) to get out of the pre-determined period, under c) almost 60% of damage suppliers and under c) to preserve the property of the creditors who sought at the beginning of this process, so much that bankruptcy should be automatically opened up on Agronor himself. During that time, our opposition colleagues offered strange solutions. One solution was the opening of a phone number on which all victims of the Emergency Administration Act would report if the SDP found a solution when the company ended up in bankruptcy. The famous painting and selfies with cabbage was also quite a strong measure to help Agrokor himself, and a proposal was submitted as a crown of opposition activities for the assessment of the constitutionality of the Emergency Management Act in commercial societies. So our colleague here from the SDP submitted a proposal to the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the Emergency Administration Act. We are in HDZ and the Government has argued that there is a legitimate goal, and this goal is to preserve a company that is of systemic importance in the Republic of Croatia and because of it itself, and also because of all those suppliers and employees in these suppliers who have an extremely large impact on the Croatian economy and the Croatian financial system and in this sense when such a legitimate objective exists, on the basis of this principle of proportionality, the Government can limit private ownership which was not the case here because, in this particular case, the launch of the Law itself was created when the owner asked for the activation of the law. Therefore, there has been a limitation of ownership rights as a constitutional category in that part. So, after the SDP submitted and proposed an assessment of the constitutionality of this law, a month or two ago from the SDP's press, we hear where it moves with the legislative plan... The law and that fat mortal on the one hand, as an assessment of the constitutionality of this Law on Extraordinary Administration is sought, on the other hand, aid is offered with these new amendments to laws that are like Yeti. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's being talked about in the SDP, but no one's seen it yet, I don't know if there's a proposal to amend and supplement the Emergency Administration Act because the SDP had anything to say about it, but he didn't write it. Therefore, we want to say in the end, I will conclude that through the Law on Extraordinary Administration, we have shown that, at a crucial moment for the Croatian economy in practical times before the 2017 tourist season, we have found a legislative opportunity which has passed its test and on the British judiciary which has confirmed that this law is in line with what can be considered a law which does not violate property rights. Therefore, it was able to save the Croatian economy, prevent financial breakdown, perform the best tourist season, keep almost at the same level of GDP growth, all because this law found the right way to stay on the one hand in the constitutional law categories and on the other hand implement the procedure that has been the most complex procedure for me in the economy since Croatia's independence. In the second part, in which the Deputy Prime Minister was asked to step down because of what she advocated for the implementation of the project adopted by this Parliament in the strategy of spatial arrangements of the Republic of Croatia with 116 votes, he adopted as a potential project for the construction of a gas thermoelectric power plant on the coast of Lake Peru, not on the Peru River, which seems to me to be a little bit the same as the bizarre data in the very submission which I otherwise said was modest and that it is not at the level necessary for the opposition to request by the Vice-President of the Government that it did not act, that the Deputy Prime Minister did not advocate for the project which was entered in the Strategic Arrangement Strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the project, which was in the spatial plan of the Split-Dalmatia County and in the spatial plan of the Croatian Municipality, and I would join the document to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79340	Thank you. We've got five replicas, but before they hurt the Rules of Procedure, fellow bogeyman, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79341	Mr. President, during today's debate, there was a violation of Article 239 concerning Article 238. The Rules of Procedure gave colleagues Maras a second reminder under Article 238. Namely, he did not abuse the violation of the Rules of Procedure but spoke about exactly what he was supposed to talk about in the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I invite you to consider during the session a stenogram of what he said and judge yourself whether this was too strict and inform us about the special sympathy that the Prime Minister has for MP Maras and I am glad that the Government has come to the Parliament if you have come to hide from the protesters from Split, you are welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79342	Thank you. So, I'm going to consider what you said but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm giving you a warning, you should have used it by some other institute because I don't see what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is, you've reported during the presentation of your colleague Bačić, I thought something wrong happened in his presentation, now you've told me this, I'm going to check this out, see, consider it. Thank you very much, so let's go to the replicas, dear colleague Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79343	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bačić, since the Prime Minister has so far not responded clearly to us after 15 days of analysis of the documents and contracts from Agrokor on the engagement of advisers, the special advisers of Mr. former Commissioner Ramljak, so he has not yet made clear his position and what he thinks about it, he did not finally replace Mr. Ramljak who resigned himself and left himself to be a burden on the settlement process. At least please tell me that as president of the HDZ Club, do you think that what happened there was normal, that Ms. Deputy Prime Minister Dalic told me that she and Mr. Ramljak and Matic of Texo Menagment were working on the preparation of the law and wrote that law, that Mr. Ramljak hired the company AlixPartners who then hired Texo Menagment at the moment when he was still officially employed in the company of Texo Menagment and that they were thus withdrawing millions in their personal favor, is that normal for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79344	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79345	Thank you, Mr. President. Coli Đujic, some things do not need to be further explained to you because the government explained them in its statement, so I believe that you, as a conscientious representative, have read what the Government has read on this point from the motion to raise the question of responsibility of the Deputy Prime Minister, and it is said there and not there, but the law says that the Government gives consent to the choice of advisers but to the choice of other subcontractors is decided by the adviser and therefore there is no need for the consent of the Government or the Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. So she could have known that, but she didn't have to know, you know, that's the difference. There's something I can know, too, but if I don't have to, I'm not responsible for it. And in that context, seek responsibility for someone who works by law, I think it's... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79346	Thank you. Now it's my fellow Alexic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79347	Thank you. Dear colleague Bačić, here I am, showering my ashes, frankly, spraying my ashes. I signed this request with point 7 which was not put into motion for recall but I will still vote for recall because still that point 7 remains, it's in the air, it's everywhere around us. Unfortunately, Minister Dalic has not left the banking mental set in which she resides and because she cannot understand in her banking mental setting how many banks have robbed Croatian citizens, how many billions of kunas it is, because she cannot access the solution to that problem, in no way can she reconcile with that the banks have to pay the money back to Croatian citizens, so I have to vote for her recall because of that point 7 which is not put into demand, but which still exists, which I have informed the public about, and even the prime minister knows about it, he probably informed my Facebook friend macan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79348	My colleague Bacic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79349	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow Alexic, I appreciate your work and I'm sorry that point 7 I read has to say, it was somewhere in the media, but as it turned out from that proposal I really don't know and I wish it had been signed up because it would have been manifested to that point too. And I believe that that would make enough arguments to convince you that the vice president is doing well and in accordance with the law. So here I call on you to support the Deputy Prime Minister, and for asking you to refer a question to the Government so that we can hear the government's response, and until then to support the Vice President, because I am sure you are satisfied with the implementation of the Emergency Administration Act on which the law is based a request for her recall.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79350	My colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, it's your turn now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79351	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bacic, there is something that is immutable. So HDZ can change its presidents from Ivo Sanader, via Jadranka Kosor, Tomislav Karamark to Andrej Plenkovic, but conflict of interest remains. It's something that's obviously unchangeable in your party and you don't want to understand or understand. So today we are having a debate over the loss of integrity and credibility of the Deputy Prime Minister because she admitted to writing the law and that she wrote a law with a picture of those who will implement this law and that Agrokor is an epic example of vultureing in phase 3. First, the Todoric family and its friends plowed him, after which the vultures' funds were scavengered by Mr. Ramljak and ended with the final vultureing directed by Mrs. Dalic, Ramljak and her partner, and who suffers? For example, they are suffering. Our pensioners whose pensions are going to be less.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79352	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79353	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Jovanovic, when you honor this government's conflict of interest, I cannot answer you because you drag me into a language, that you either deliberately silence or forget how much the Government of Zoran Milanovic was in conflict of interest? No member of the government has passed the term of office seems to me without having been determined by the Commission that he is acting contrary or that he is in conflict of interest. So, I in this government, here while I'm looking here almost the entire government, I don't see that what you said is true. And it's not true, so I still don't know if going to one member of the government has established a conflict of interest here that's ahead of us, if that happens then we can talk about each and every single one, but what happened during your government could talk for two days.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79354	Thank you. Now it's time for my colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79355	The Honorable Chairman, members of the government. Mr. Bacic, clean this up in the end, it's all your fault. Both your government and the HDZ government and the SDP government, you all knew about the deep scheme of Agrodor with politicians coming and going. But what I'm asking you, so as a doctor, I've been through a certain period of time since I've been in this kind of politics, not local, I've had the knowledge that there's something going on. The information was, did you have any knowledge as an experienced politician who wasn't an economist? Because what surprises me most is in the Globe the published interview that Macan probably authorized, an interview by our vice president who, I must quote, said: the first information that something unusual was happening in Agrokor came to me when and all the others. MoDI reduced ratings during January and early February 2017 And gave a few warnings, etc. And that wasn't common. [[The President's intrusion: thank you.]] Did you have her, though, if she wasn't an experienced economist?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79356	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79357	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues of Strenja-Linić, I personally do not. Officially, I didn't have any real information about it. I had probably as much as you did. Certain voices that I heard Agrokor was in trouble, but the relevant institutions, if you want the audits they did, the commercial audits that did the Agrokor review did not, and we were convinced, pointed to the problems in Agrokor that were indeed. I think that HDZ, along with the Most at the end of 2015, could also be convinced of the situation in Agrokor, so as far as I can see, only in the second HDZ government began to talk about it. Thus, the Most of those years together with us could gain information better than what we heard in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79358	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. Looks to me like you've broken time. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79359	Mr. Bacic, I'll quote you. You either deliberately shut up or you really have a syncope because we warned you in 2016, even on several occasions we publicly said it. But I have to say, you definitely need to run the Ministry of Real Estate. I kept this one replica at my disposal just for you because I knew you'd delight me. Mr. Bacic, you're still in the phase of defending the Lex Agrokor, you don't realize it's been a year. And you didn't use Lex Agrokor the way you should have used it because I'm going to remind you, there's no deal, let alone restructuring. You introduced a roll-up model that wasn't mentioned anywhere, you don't have it in lex Agrodor, you got at the end of the advisory salary, what I can say today, I have to hurry because I have literally 12 seconds that you've taken away from us. You damaged the shareholders less, you brought Croatian entrepreneurs into an unequal position, but that you took tens of millions of consulting services. You see, Mr. Bacic, your opinion is worth as much as the party says, it's a discipline, you said it yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79360	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79361	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Petrov, are you at the end of this law... Or didn't you? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've got to figure it out. You took part in this law, you voted with us, and I don't really know whether you are today for this law as you were a year or not ago. But you know what I'm going to tell you. Even if Agrokor were to go bankrupt now, that collapse and tsunami in the financial and economic system in Croatia would no longer be because, in the meantime, the suppliers of counterpart Petrov, who were on their knees a year ago, charged a large part of the debt, strengthened, things changed on the Croatian market. And I believe that the settlement and restructuring will be realized by the end, but the danger is no longer the same as it was a year ago. And only in that is the value of that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79362	Thank you. Let's move on, dear colleague Alexic, individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79363	Thank you, Mr. President. Where do I start? Well, I said I'm not happy because the point I wanted to put in the application isn't in there. I'll read it here, let the public hear it one more time even though I've already published it, it reads like this, so that should have been the 7th point in the appeal for impeachment. In addition to all of the above, Minister Dalic constantly ignores the importance of protecting consumers damaged by the illegal operations of Croatian banks, so the ministry, which was headed by the proposal to allow outside the law the compensation of Croatian citizens damaged by illegal increases in interest rates and which was already legally established by a collective court ruling from the only collective court process in the Republic of Croatia for the time being. It is obvious that Minister Dalic represents an extended arm of unfair banks whose dishonesty has been legally established and makes it impossible to systematically compensate Croatian citizens based on relevant legal case-law. Last year's law was proposed, no green light was given in the Ministry of Economy, no green light was later brought in by the Parliament, debtors were miserable in courts to grandmother. We have 10 judgments so far, but from my assessment of the 200 thousand court proceedings, there are currently 4000 judicial proceedings for compensation based on illegally increased interest rates of Croatian banks. Isn't it sad that you Minister Dali don't want to allow people out of court to get their money without suing the courts for years and waiting for their damages? I'd have to go back to your past, let's remember in 2011, and then the head of the government was a lawyer, today he's a lawyer. And then that lawyer was actually kind of in your shadow. You actually rule from the shadows because you have a huge influence on lawyers. It is the lawyers who should not be allowed to be told by economists what is the rule of law and, apparently, the lawyers allow it. Let's remember in 2011, then there was this interest problem, it could have already been resolved through the law, along with a solution for CHF loans, because then CHF loans still haven't grown as enormously as they did in 2015. But instead of solving the problem, you offered balloon loans in agreement with the banks. Those balloon loans didn't help anyone at all and I don't even know who was in charge of loans with the CHF currency clause entered into that balloon loan. And if he had come in, he'd have gotten into an even bigger debt than he had been before. I have to say that one old Roman saying that I often say quad initiosum est, non potted tract temporis convalescere, which is not good from the beginning will not be fixed over time. So you initially showed that you will not protect debtors from the illegal business of Croatian banks. When you got your term back here, I congratulated you and I told you you had a negative history and you continued with that negative history and in the future. What I would like to hear from you is that you will give legitimacy, in fact propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the Franak Association be legitimateized for the possibility of filing a collective suit. Here's no deal with the opposition, no deal with the opposition, and I hope my colleagues and colleagues will forgive me because this impeachment will not go away anyway, here I call you if you promise me, here I am now trading publicly, transparently, there is no under the table, if you promise me here in this place that you will propose to the Franak Association for a legitimate prosecutor in a collective court case and the ruling on it is made by the Government of the Republic, if you publicly promise it and you have the grounds to resolve it, I will not vote for your impeachment. It's a little thing, it's not a big deal, but it's a big deal for the debtors. And to explain a little bit better what these collective processes are about. If you propose to the Franak Association that she be a legitimate prosecutor, you will not endanger the state, you will not compromise the budget, you will not endanger the citizens, the only one that could be threatened is that Franak association, which, if it raises a collective lawsuit in the future and loses the process, it goes bankrupt. Because she won't be able to pay the cost of that process. And the Franak Association has proven itself, in the past, to know what it's doing. She got half a collective trial against 8 banks and now she's waiting to get it completely and maybe she'll get it completely. But I say, Franak Association, although it is not Franak Prosecutor's Association, because we had to negotiate with the Consumer Association, so that, on our behalf, another consumer would press that collective suit. And what are you looking for? It is required that Franak be legitimate as a separate entity which would only deal with the protection of users of financial services. Therefore, not all consumers in general, but only those consumers, for which Franak has proved that he knows how to protect them. Here, I urge you to promise me that, I will not vote for your impeachment, and your opposition colleagues, please forgive me, if this Martina Dalic, promised. I really have a fat reason to keep her still in the position she is, and there won't be a recall anyway, that's clear to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79364	Let's move on, now it's time for the esteemed colleague Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79365	Thank you very much for bringing in the President, Prime Minister with ministers and ministers. My colleagues and colleagues, I will try to speak in my own way today, given that here the strength of the arguments is right in the morning and was not worth anything, so I will also try to describe the situation as we have reached the recall, what is sought and why the recall will not be. The fact is, this is another attempt by Most and the SDP, one of the peaks of ignorance, an inconclusive and well-known gap in politics that can exist, because recently, i.e. Two days ago, the result of a single law, against which the SDP was fierce, was clearly published, and the bridge, along with the HDZ, brought the same. A year on this question, trying to do duet, simply take Agrokor, according to bankruptcy, to create a platform for some elections, failed. They're just acting like some offended bride someone left at the wedding, because a man can't really convince himself that it's possible in a year to have so many lies, lies, bile. Showing some kind of anger, because something that has been passed, as a law, can result in a positive result, for those who depend on that result. They're suppliers, employees, and in the end, what do we have? We have a story that you spiced it up with a creamy watch, which simply in its text is nothing more serious than, and I don't know, how do you even rate it, a clock that would probably get a grade at school, maybe one or a minus two? After, I say, bringing with us lex Agrokor, we heard on the council board, from Mr. Ramljak, that the first call to him came from Mr. Petrov, which I was surprised, because I kept leaving the impression that it had gone away. And the same people are listed in this impeachment, as the reason why the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Dalic should be reduced. What they did after they replaced themselves outside the government, colleagues from the Bridge, immediately initiated a recall, Mr. Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. One competent, capable man who arranged the finances and brought state-level finances, so we can say that we have stability, that we have a surplus of the state budget, that our credit rating is growing, and just before that, someone wanted to replace it. In what way? We had to prove that with audio footage, again falsely and falsely by those who had till then acted as HDZ authorities. So we had a story during the summer, all that Todorovic would publish, the SDP and the Bridge in the morning, in their breaks, would stand out here as their own views, accuse the government, the vice president, everyone who could, because it was simply their way of calculating them with their own incompetence and inaction. Before the end of the year, again, another recall, but now the whole government, the reason, the loan. There was another reason, because I'm saying, it was always a wish, I say, to end it in a bad way, to prove that someone knows something. So what do we have today? Revocation for some, i.e. for a minister, who knows his job, competent, capable, that from the beginning, to the end, one law goes through and that we have the result that we plotted at the beginning. How do you undo that? The way you're looking for a shift. That someone doesn't think, that it's something good, to create public perception, again, in the same, similar way, that we've been looking at for almost a year. Nothing's wrong, someone's stealing, crime, thieves, these, them, etc. So what's that for? Why can't you make peace with the fact that something can end well? And you didn't participate in it in any way, especially the SDP, anything. He says we were making some amendments, but it didn't go away, so we thought we'd settle it through the bankruptcy bill, so a little phone, so we'd do a little cabbage, and that's our contribution. So what do we do now? Nothing, a demo to replace the minister who finished the job. And what we cited as the reason, the first point, why the law was passed, lex Agrokor, that's why you need to replace the minister. It's something normal, anyone who wants to think positively in this country. You pass a law that has success, and then we'll replace you because you passed a law like that. The second point, intransparency, after every month, not just the government, the ministers, we have a monthly report, what happens inside that system? We're saying no one knows anything. Everyone has their numbers, and that's why. And the third reason the Bridge didn't even want to talk about today, which is the famous project Vis Viva, a thermal power plant on the Peru River. All the ministers of MOST here we have, all the papers I have here, so they gave a positive opinion, and Minister Sprlje and Minister Romic and Minister Dobrovic on this project so that we can listen here for almost a year, watch protests, that someone is struggling that this project never happens. So look at that inversion, that way you want to create perception among citizens. And what do we have in the end? I'm saying, forget what happened, he's trying to get some kind of resignation insistence on some kind of impeachment that ends in failure in advance because what happened today during the day? What I said this morning. In the afternoon, excuses started, why did we even get into this? The minister is good, the minister is nice, she knows etc., but we ask you at HDZ to vote for mistrust with your own minister because we do not have the strength. Let's look at how many of us here, of those who have signed, all four, are so interested in this, let's tell a story that should make some impression in the media space. Why did that happen? Because it all just seemed to everyone at the end, at first it wasn't easy. I'm listening to a representative of the SDP today, he says we'd be handling it in one day if this is the result. Imagine that ease of solution, in one day. We handle it without a problem in the SDP, no problem. We listened to a colleague who left, silenced himself, and then got angry and left. What did he say in the summer of 2014? About this Agrokor, about Todorov, who takes 600m euros in credit and, as counterpart Maras says, just a little bit to find, it is a great success of the Croatian economy, congratulating both Agrokor and Todorovic who has achieved great entrepreneurial success. And that entrepreneurial success brings a situation to this government, and it just seems to everyone. What did we have throughout the process? Comparing us with 4 million inhabitants and such a company with, say, Germany, 80 million inhabitants, we have the fact that we had claims at the level of 46 billion kuna, which there in Germany would be almost a debt of nearly 600 billion euros for such a company. To understand what impact something could have had on both the state budget and our entire economy, but it just seems, so we would sort it out like this. Of course, it would all end in the way it should, as the opposition always wants, initiates the recall and remand of what the good owner said that did something not to end it the way they wanted it to. And what does that remind me of? That's where I'll end up. In our neighbouring country, there was a candidate in the presidential election, called Preletevic Beli. And when he completed his mission, the elections, when he saw his result, he declared victory that night, cooked the charm and then cried afterwards. I think it might be on your side tomorrow because I don't know how you approach something that's serious, it's serious to replace a man, when I see a colleague of Alexic who finds out that you cheated on him, if you didn't want to call him back what he wrote, he signed you a recall, and now he's been asking you all morning to respect him and even vote for it, but there's no power to get in the way of your fraud. Comrade Alexic, do it, you'll feel better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79366	Thank you. We have the first breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79367	Dear President, the article of Rules of Procedure in 238 was injured for the reason Mr. Boric insulted and disrespected us by stating the lies. In the delusions, or false beliefs of Mr. Boric, I will not enter, his views and false beliefs are his, but I would pray that the correct quotes are used although Mr. Boris did not sit here the whole time, then at least someone should have told him what MOST was talking about at the pay phone, who quoted Mr. Todorovic as saying that, he was wrong. What we said, that's what happened, you sold Agrokor and you took down consulting salaries... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79368	Col. Petrov, yes, this is for a warning, you did not say what was offensive in the presentation of fellow Boric, untrue, it is difficult to assess what is true, which is false. And you've also said something that could be taken under it for a colleague of Bačić's, so I haven't responded, I think we have uniform rules for all, sometimes things are said maybe more than you should or someone shouldn't accept what another says, a colleague, but there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure here, and I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure and I'm giving you a warning. Now let's go to the replicas, the first respected colleague of Sladolev, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79369	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Bobic, I know that by entering HDZ you lost some of the sovereignty as your club president said, but I was hoping that you hadn't lost some of your memory to remind you, dear Minister Dalic believed so much in your party and in you as a parliamentary representative that in the past elections she donated to the party Smartly, but since these two parties are very close to the Istanbul Convention, here I see nothing controversial about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79370	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79371	Well, I mean, I don't know if and this had anything to do with my debate, it wasn't, but since my colleague Sladoljev insists, as far as sovereignty is concerned, there are sovereigns in the Croatian Parliament, these are colleagues from the Most, if I remember correctly, and we hear that there are still some sovereigns who are just being announced, so we'll see what's going to happen in that part because when we talk about who's going to vote, I'm not sure that the Mosta Club will be unique tomorrow, at least what I listened to all day, as we heard today. You take care of yourself and then you will evaluate the power and what will be inside of us because it is not just like that and in an easy way you say something to someone and it will not happen to you in your ranks. One of your colleagues went a little bit...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79372	Thank you. Let's move on, colleague Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79373	Thank you, Mr. President. You said we were incompetent, that we didn't know we were bad. You are excellent, so you are really great really well managed by the Croatian economy to the extent that 150 of my peers leave Croatia daily and that is indeed commendable. 20 and change for years you have managed Croatia, you are shaking, you have now given Agrokor to the Russians, you have actually given Agrokor a farm plot to the Russians, you gave INA to the Hungarians, you gave Telecom to the Germans a long time ago, you sold out the banks, I don't know what more will be left of Croatia if you continue to manage Croatia for another 20 years. I hope the election will come very soon to the shift to really preserve what's left of you. As for Agrokora 2300 people is less than 10 April to 1 January 2018, 100 businesses are less, 300 million kuna for 140 advisors is given, 25 million kuna severances for the former administration and I don't really know what you see there is success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79374	Thank you. Reply to the replica of Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79375	Thank you very much. My colleague Pranic, I heard that you were a member of the SDP, and the SDP sold the banks, so you have to deal with that part of your objections because I can't help it, you understand. So try to solve it with them, and then we'll determine the truth, and then we'll determine the truth about Agrokor. You know, it's not nice to attack someone that way, not be prepared to defend yourself. So as far as the SDP is concerned, you handle it with them, I know you were among the active ones, so we can...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79376	Dear colleague Curai, you are the third in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79377	Thank you, Mr. President. I wasn't planning on picking up, but I'm gonna use this minute just to make a point for the public. So here today we hear from the promoters of this shift how it is and can quote them "The government has no impact on the settlement and what is happening at all are all believers". On the other hand, we now hear the government selling Agrokor to the Russians those who suggest it. On the third hand, what you mentioned about how the Bridge was while he was in the government supporting some projects, and now they're not and you're talking about the one in demand on the so-called. The words of Peru, if I was able to read it well, or the thermoelectric power plants, and now they're against it, so LNG Omishalj, it was offshore prepared, not they're proposing offshore now and they don't need it, and let's say in Osijek people want everyone wants a thermopower plant, if they can't. So I think there's a clear way of working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79378	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79379	Well, my colleague, I don't know. The Bridge has probably tried to be an opposition in power, so now they're an opposition to the opposition, and simply that change in those positions has solved probably a large part of their activity over the past year. My opinion is that they're going well now, that they're starting to be positive about proposing certain projects, there's probably a chance they're getting better. But I say again when they sign these impeachments where they cheat even those who are with them, who wanted it, no, the question is how serious it is, you understand, and there probably even citizens have a certain level of doubt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79380	Now it's time for the esteemed fellow Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79381	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Col. Boric, who was in 2012 in power in Croatia? When did the joyous bond dance begin through the factoring society? When did he start the showcase at Todorovic's companies in the Netherlands? We forget everything. That's what the revised financial report says, let's talk about it. Today, however, some colleagues who were then in power, who spoke praises about this bond dance and the loan sign today, suddenly as if they had forgotten what had happened. How much did Agrokor owe in those three years? 2 billion and 900 million euros. When do the financial problems of Agrokor begin and a series of other things? Are we gonna talk about facts or are we gonna get muddled? It's mostly someone else's fault. The second thing, if someone in this House wanted to discuss Agrokor was enough to put the report on the agenda for 2015, then all this could have been discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79382	Thank you. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79383	So, my colleague Shuker, that's why I tried to go from the beginning how we came to recall at all, and the fact is that it was an attempt to put everything that happened in the past and the minister, the prime minister and this government as a whole, and that this law and this whole procedure and this year has shown that we can deal with every problem that we can sort out a little bit of what many have avoided in the past few years, but also 20 years and more that we will have a little problem in accordance with the government's programme and thus be reasoned and clearly show that we can manage many of the problems that this country and citizens have been struggling with and that we have solutions to such problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79384	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague of Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79385	Thank you. So, Mr. Boric, you're saying that we want to be sovereigns, I think we'll prove it, and we just want your support when we want to declare an exclusive economic belt. But it's interesting this morning while Mr. Bulj told you everything and you didn't answer, you're reporting now that he's gone when he went to defend some of his principles and advocated the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. My position you clearly knew and yours knew, but you changed it under the pressure of those who said you needed a little different now. You have no right to attack or Mr. Pranic because everything about you was told by the actions when you were wearing someone's videos to the former prime minister to put you on the list. So much for how anyone acted during his political life, so no comments, this morning, we now hear everything you're commenting on all of this says the most about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79386	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79387	My colleagues are shooting as far as I'm concerned... September 28, 2016 Mr Mladen Dobrović, then we have Minister Ante Sprlje on 5 September 2016, and then we have, since we have to prove everything either in writing or in audio, etc. We also have Mr Davor Romic on 10 August 2016 means all consent to the strategic project of building a thermal power plant on Lake Peru, not on the river as you wrote it, but how can we convince you that it was them? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How can we convince you? We have the papers, we have the consent of their positive opinions, and then your reactions after all and try to make some points there, obviously, and I don't know why you're doing it that way?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79388	Thank you. Let's move on. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79389	Thank you, dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow ministers. Well, here's because a lot has already been said, but here I will only do a recapitulation of the situation in fact on 10.4.2017 compared to 10.4.2018 and then we can actually determine how successful this government and this minister were and what would have happened if it had been different. On 10.04.2017, the blockade of this company was over 3 billion kuna. Related companies and co-ownerships are over 77 of these companies, so about 40,000 employees and debt to suppliers who were over 50 billion kuna. And then at that moment within 2, 3 months it was actually necessary to set up the whole situation, to see how to stop the collapse of all these companies further in a way that would remain all employees, to prepare the tourist season, to supply consummated shelves with goods for Easter, etc. and so it was a moment in which solutions were to be found quickly and efficiently. What has happened in these years, and all those who really want bad for all of us, that the entire system, the economic system, is collapsing and that Croatia is back in recession to show that this government, how we are doing badly here as an opposition. But it happened exactly the opposite, and it happened that within a year and before, that the whole situation was actually calmed down in a way that suppliers stayed inside, that financial institutions also showed interest and that the whole system works in a way that we have stability in our space. And that's exactly what's wrong with those who advocate chaos. What is visible after that year is that suppliers in Group A are paid in a 100% amount, that it is more than 2,500 small and large entrepreneurs, OPGs and the like, that the group of suppliers of B are paid in such a way that more than 85 billion kuna are paid and that it is also a principle deal with financial creditors to reach a contract with suppliers for the further supply of Konzum, or Agrokor, and all in the situation that the government is actually doing a whole company that can further produce a new value, and not all of these employees have been fired, or have not been fired at all, therefore this and the previous one, and now this administration that is now doing the job to the end, are actually very correct and high-quality. Those who advocated and advocated bankruptcy then forget that the duration, the average duration of the bankruptcy procedure is over 3 years, that the bankruptcy procedure is lost in Croatia, for example. More than 15% is the cost of bankruptcy, and 15% of the property in the bankruptcy process is lost, and during that time it would actually happen within not 3 years, but within a few months, there was actually chaos on the market, and what everyone needed and everyone needed is stability, it is trust and it is the survival of a company that in this way only producing a new value can repay their loans, their obligations and pay suppliers. I don't know how to explain that bankruptcy is a process that would cause so much chaos on the market to cause chaos throughout the system in such a way that it as a tower of cards would be poured over to all segments of how trade, production, small suppliers, producers and a complete financial system. So, what we all need is precisely stability and trust, but what we should always point out, those who do, and don't pay their suppliers, those who do, and don't pay their employees, they must very much respond because in the Republic of Croatia there must be no place for them. In order to have a quality system, we must try exactly and strive to shorten payment deadlines, to reverse capital, to create a new value, and thus restore trust in a complete financial and economic system because without such a correct relationship with suppliers, to traders, there cannot be any economy for employees, nor this one. So the one who didn't know how to do it and didn't want to do it and do it the way the law predicted he had to lose his trust, he had to lose his influence because he obviously couldn't do it alone anymore. So much for the success of this government and this minister's failure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79390	We don't have a replica. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic. He is not present, so he loses his right to speak, and then he is a respected colleague, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79391	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Honored ministers, ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I, as an entrepreneur, must start from the beginning by analyzing events in the Republic of Croatia from the beginning to today. Knowing and following the development of the Republic of Croatia and what was happening in our beautiful homeland, how companies were developing and how all of this that we're talking about today happened, of course I'm not in that time of '95. Until 2005, he believed we'd hold out until today. I thought we lived in luxury that we were going to sink and it wasn't going to work out right. Of course, that went on and it came to this day, when problems need to be solved by those who piled up, filled from 10 years ago and over. Today when, as our colleague said, we're beating up empty straw, when events happened, when something came to an end where it couldn't go any further, as far as Agrokor goes, we're all aware here in this country that everyone was raising Todorov from 2005 to 2016, in fact, to this government. I'm very surprised as an entrepreneur, as if we woke up today or within the last month or the last 15 months, for 10 months, we all know what to do, but when something had to be solved, we were nowhere to be found. Of course, the Law that was passed, lex-Agrocor saved a certain part, not a certain part, most of our economy, I as an entrepreneur can feel what would have happened, and especially what would have happened to my Slavonia if, God forbid, the PIK Vinkovci, Vukovar, Belje and everything had collapsed and gone bankrupt, one 3-5 years of solving problems where everything allegedly and fell apart, surely. It is not clear to me that today we want to put Deputy Prime Minister Dalic away from whom, in some ways, I admire her when she said, I wrote this law on Agrokor. You know who can say that? Only a man who's determined, who knows and who's sure of what he's doing. If they looked at the CV Minister Dalic, they'd see that everyone wanted to work with her. Why? Well, I guess they saw her ability. A woman who knows a decision, who knows how to do her job. If there's anything she hasn't done right in her business, of course they have institutions that should prove it. However, this lex-Agrocor that happened, which happened now that here are the settlements that are happening and which are now in the process, I ask, when did Agrokor get into trouble? Agrokor came into trouble from 2011 to 2014. No one asked a question in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, when Agrokor was raising Russian loans, when the European banks wouldn't let him take the loan, and why the gentlemen didn't get up, saw what was happening in Agrokor. Of course, everyone was silent, raising Todorov and Agrokor, and what's going on? That same Russian bank today has 45% of the capital in Agrokor, in fact, ownership. Of course, because they gave up their money. The man who followed it, and I followed it myself, over the past 20 years I've seen it go the wrong way, it's not going to be a good end, and when it came to an end, when it had to be solved, of course, this government came into a problem that doesn't matter what happened 4, 5 years or 20 years ago, I'm specifically talking about Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Dalic and has to solve the problem. Now that the problem is solved, then we'll get up and say gentlemen so you didn't know, you don't know it today, you didn't do it well, we would certainly do it better, so you gentlemen, as far as I know here in the Parliament, here are those who raised the issue of mistrust with our Minister Dalic,... In 2014, when you saw Agrokor's debt to so many billions, you're not gentlemen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because you missed it, which you would have caught up with and done or you didn't know how to do or you couldn't do it, of course it came today as it did, you have to get rid of Agrokor, thank God if it hadn't gone bankrupt, thank God it wasn't on the streets of 30,000 or 100,000 small craftsmen and entrepreneurs who would be in blockades today, who would have lost everything they had today. The person shows up, here's thank you for coming, who had the strength to say I wrote it, I'll try to fix it. I congratulate you on your salvation, so who's doing it? A man who believes in himself. It's easy to be an easy opposition, say you don't know, you don't. What does that mean? Beating up empty straw, not really getting into trouble. This government has entered the problem and I hope that this problem will come out positively, although it is still questionable, it should be resolved and Agrokor should be raised on his feet, but the second and better way I personally as an entrepreneur think it wasn't. And we're going to tear down something that's being solved, me as a man who has experience behind me, am I going to drive out my best worker? I won't. Will I support him? I will. Am I going to give him confidence? I will because it works well. I don't get into the details of the analysis, but that's how I look. A man of interest who says I know it, I can do it, I want it, I can congratulate him. People who don't, who don't know, and they're putting things off are just an extension of the agony that's going on, in this case I congratulate the Vice Presidents of the Dalic on the solution and that you had the strength and that you hit it with your hand and said I wrote it, I'll handle it. Thank you and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79392	Let's move on. On behalf of the promoter, he will now speak to his esteemed colleague, Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79393	Thank you, dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I think we've made all the arguments that were important here for Martina Dalic's recall since the opening speech, then further through this debate on behalf of the promoter, so it's all said. What we didn't get the answers to is how does the prime minister comment on Martina Dalic's responsibility for an affair counselors? He commented on all this this morning in his opening statement as if they were indeterminates, using the easiest possible expression for an affair that led to the government's Commissioner Ante Ramljak leaving without any political responsibility. In any orderly country due to this conflict of interest, because the government commissioner provided his former company with a million-dollar amount, the person responsible for this, and we all know that Martina Dalic took responsibility for the process around Agrokor, that she stood behind Ante Ramljak, we all know that such a person would have to leave. But after the prime minister checked the paperwork for 15 days, the commissioner left, we got a new commissioner, and nothing practically happened, and before this debate on the recall of Martina Dalic we have so-called. The draft settlement that should show Martina Dalic has successfully done her job. Not a single argument that has been brought down since this morning, so I call once again, so I won't last five minutes, but there's no need for so much talk because I don't have any more right to the replicas that I used, so I'm using these discussions on behalf of the promoters, and once again I call on all the representatives who believe that such a conflict of interest, we can tell Martin Dalic that she is a walking conflict of interest, we haven't touched either the INA, or her wife, going to the Hungarians' feet and everything that came out in the Croatian public. It was enough for this situation around Agrokor, and I hear now that my colleague, Boric, has tried to catch some elements again, but has not answered these questions. It's interesting how he's running from Agrokor, running from a counselor, running from these millions, running from these indeterminateities, as the prime minister said. There is no colleague of ours, he is deliberately going to some situations thanks to which this government has again shown its unbelief and Martina Dalic because we all remember well, I have heard that you have called your colleague Bulja precisely thanks to the struggle of your colleagues to stop the project you were talking about, you have asked where is my colleague Bulj, here I see that he is down at the protest where you cannot be, so in this sense do not call your colleague Bulj. You can think of him this or that, but it is a man who stands behind his words, we have seen it here on many occasions in the Croatian Parliament, so there is no need for that. We've been there all along, we've been here all along, you haven't been very active, you woke up around 5:00, because you have nothing to say, you have nothing to say to those arguments we've made. And neither was the Prime Minister very convincing this morning. So in that sense, I think all opposition deputies should support this impeachment, I hope that's the case, and if not, then we'll see how much time we'll get for this impeachment. Whatever happens will show who is the real opposition, who is the real opposition in the Croatian Parliament, who are those who are not holding the ladder to Andrej Plenkovic from chance to occasion, we had a situation for colleagues from the IDS to step in when needed, we had a situation that colleagues of Hrelja now announced that they would not come to recall. What's going to help us with this initiative is that we know who the real opposition is. And in this sense she is useful and about Agrokor and everything that happened around Agrokor, we will have opportunities to talk more in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79394	Thank you, too. One replica, dear colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79395	Dear Representative Grmoja, I explained that Todorovic came to PIK Vrbovac in the first place and eventually got it for the bagatel and then pawned his assets for the loan and drive of PIK Vrbovac, now you will not believe this, is estimated and HBOR estimated it at 462 million kuna and 62 million euros, respectively. We know that there is no way that this is worth so much and consequently no one, so the state, HBOR will not be able to charge as could not be charged before for the loans guaranteed by the repayment of the loans taken by PIK Vrbovac. And if nothing else, I believe that this Christmas loan, which was given to a huge amount, which was not adequately protected by guarantees, if anything else for that reason at least I expect Minister Dalic, is not to replace her but to resign on his own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79396	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79397	Comrade Pernar, we are all here during the debate, during the replicas, we have warned about all this, we are talking about how Agrokor was saved and we all here have asked the question of who he was saved for. The company in which taxpayers' money was invested through HBOR's loans, through incentives, through the political benefits of this or that government, through state guarantees, means that the company is now practically taken over by most of the Russian banks and a good colleague Bulj has pointed out here, boasted the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister with a Belje T-shirt, turns out that it was given to her by a HDZ man, I've already seen them write portals, but good fellow Bulj said it would be more appropriate that Azimov gave her half of his medal than that T-shirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79398	Let's go to the next debate, dear colleague Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79399	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. So here we are already discussing the good nearly 9 hours, but very interesting how it is surrounded by this debate, what is the macroeconomic position of Croatia today, what are macroeconomic indicators, whether they are good or whether they are bad. This is the result of an economic team of one government. There's no need to pick up a few things. The moment that Lex Agrokor was brought in, I wasn't in this House, and that's why I just don't want to discuss some things, but then some goals were set. And the first document that was real with weight and data produced by this administration was, in fact, not them but the audit house, the revised financial report. And if we're discussing something today, it should be a document that should be the basis for all the debates because why? He found out the fact that someone agreed with it or not, he's like that. On the basis of this, they are guided by stories about how much anyone is looking for, which will be admitted to him, which will not be recognised, what kind of settlement will be, etc. But also this revised financial report has established some facts. So, when the financial problems of Agrokor die. At the end of 2011. By then Agrokor had no significant financial problems. Until then, one of Agrokora's financiers was the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. What's going on in 2012? is amended once by the HANFA Act and the Act on the takeover of companies is amended. When does this famous exchange-playing start? From 2012 to 2015 That's all the facts I just can't invent, that's the data that can be checked out. When did the big task with the European banks start? In 2014, who took up a 600m-euro loan? Agrokor's company in the Netherlands. And today I listen to those who were in power at the time as if nothing had happened. And we met where we are. And it made sense to me that today's gross debate was going on about what was meant to be achieved with Lex Agrokora and whether it was achieved or not, whether practically all employees had kept their jobs, whether the companies in the Agrokor concert normally functioned and operated for the past year and what the perspective and future of Agrokora was tomorrow. And we can't today is this or that owner of Agrocora that much and so much. At any point, whether it was a lex Agrokor law or a bankruptcy or a pre-determined, someone would either turn their claims into a holding stake or charge for some other part. However, colleagues and colleagues, let us not forget what happened in one period when shares of the brightest companies in the concert Agrokor were traded practically... on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why didn't some institutions that needed to react? And that is why I said if someone wanted to discuss all these facts, it was enough to put 2016 or 2017 on the agenda of this Assembly a report on the work of HANF for 2014 and 2015. There's some things inside that you can see and there's some things that could be discussed. But we're just talking about something today. I'll tell you the truth, I'm interested in what someone produced for what they charged and nothing else. Because if someone did a job, it's their turn to charge for it. And that's supposed to be an argument when we're talking about whether someone's charged or not, and we're here dealing with how they're irrational things. However, finances and figures are an exact thing. It has an exact date of events and exactly how some things were carried out as some things were done. But we don't talk about it today. Why? We're talking about buying a P.I.K. Vrbovac, buying this or that. So there's a government that started in 2001 a story about the sale of PIK Vrbovac. Also, no one gave anything to anyone, so now the colleagues of the SDP don't think I'm throwing anything at them. It's just that you know exactly, the one who took the PIK Vrbovac, who took over the commitments. So there's all the documentation that exists in the government of the Republic of Croatia and there's no need to talk by heart. The second thing, all those documents were seen by the state's attorney's office back then. Why didn't he react, if it was something controversial. So, we're going at it with information that's at least suspicious. Unfortunately, this Parliament has received one feature that it has never adorned, if I may say by quotes, which is that we are easily hitting on people with mud, on some from the government, and on fellow MPs, when someone's fit we throw mud in his face and I don't care if that's the case or not. You see, colleagues and colleagues, if today we took this revised financial report as some kind of basic act based on whom we can measure someone's success, failure, I guarantee you that the story would go the other way and I don't ever think of it, after all, seeking opposition to the impeachment of a minister or president of the government is a legitimate, democratic right of political struggle and there is no one here to be angry with. However, we Parliamentarians have a responsibility when we debate here to debate on the basis of facts. Unfortunately, no one can tell me I wasn't here, I haven't been maybe an hour and a half, but I listened to all the clubs. No argument based on anything I haven't heard. Not one. Not one. And it makes sense to me that those who were against lex-Agrocor, that today they might be able to speak one way or another, but it makes sense to me that those who voted for that law, that today they simply don't make a summary of what they did with it. What would have been achieved if it hadn't been for that? Let's ask a question like that. And instead of talking about which future is these companies that hire about 70-80 thousand people, which is the future of practically the largest organised agricultural producer in the Republic, how to get the government there in a certain way not actively, but to keep an eye on what's going to happen, no, we're going to talk about someone doing it one way or another. I'll tell you, if something was paid, it was paid from private company money. Let's see if there's anything he's produced for that, and secondly, I'm only personally interested in the future of PIC White, the future of PIC Vrbovac, the future of Agrolaguna, the future of Vupika and more. There was also a story about Vupik, this one, that one. In 2013, the government extended the deadline for carrying out its obligations when buying this Vupik and I have a clear doubt that the Government of Zoran Milanovic would give an extension of the deadline that she found anything suspicious in the operation of PIK Vrbovac and around PIK Vrbovac in relation to what was in the contract because the logical thing, why would they extend the deadline for fulfilling the contractual obligations if it was during another government. And in the end, I'll be done with it. Praises at the time Mercator was purchased, praises were raised when a 600m-euro loan was raised, although the loan was raised by a company in the Netherlands, and today simply as if someone was not involved in the process. And I repeat, these good macroeconomic indicators are not a fruit of chance. What is the future and obligation of counterparts Dalic and colleagues, Maric, above all, to force other colleagues, which are structural reforms. Because if we don't, then colleagues and colleagues can discuss anything, we've done our job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79400	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is the honorable colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79401	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Shuker, I planned to give you this replica in one completely different direction, but the last sentence you said forced me to change it completely. Just structural reforms are what this government has failed most in the last year. This is a fact supported by the report submitted by the European Commission. That report is painfully cutting down the work of the government, and why I'm talking about it now that we're discussing Mrs. Vice President's trust. Because Madam Deputy Prime Minister may be the most important co-ordination within the government, which is for the economy and social activities, and I ask you, you've probably looked at the same thing as I have, where the biggest objections in that report are to the non-implementation of structural reforms. There. And exactly what you said, that's exactly what we need to talk about, but it's also exactly what is the greatest responsibility and why Mrs. Dalic has to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79402	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79403	My fellow coat of arms, we've been sharing this space for many years. And you know well how I spoke as an opposition representative, structural reform, structural reform, right? If a part of these structural reforms had been made, this government would not have had a problem like this today. And why did I mention them now? So for the simple reason, let me show you, that we in HDZ are not blind about the problems we have. But we simply can't lose all the energy to write materials, if someone hadn't done something, instead of ministers doing what they need to do. It's just facts. But I'd very much like to have you, colleague Grbin, look back at that part of my story when I was talking about some financial transactions that happened in the period 2012-2015. However, you and I have always had a correct debate here, we've been working this space for a long time, and I told you, as I was talking about structural reforms at the time, I'm talking about today, and I don't have any of this, some kind of delay in that, not according to the government, not even today. Why? Because it's just a ridiculous need.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79404	Thank you. Second replica, Comrade Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79405	Dear Representative Shuker, you say that you are responsible, however, in an article entitled that the state has been returning loans instead of Todorovic for 10 years, says the following year after the privatisation of Pic Vrbovac, in the state budget, the work that shows, which loans and similar obligations are paid back, the state has thus found interesting every Pic Vrbovac. At that moment, at the head of the Ministry of Finance is Ivan Šuker, and in 2006 he himself appeared as the assistant in charge of the budget and today's Minister Zdravko Maric. Be careful which thought, he did the job for Agrokor and then returned Maric to the government. Also mentioned are several additional items related to Pic Vrbovac and Belje, and appear until 2015. Over 10 years, the total value of the amount in them exceeds 230 million kuna, with a loss of € 207,8 million on Pic Vrbovac. In other words, when Todorovic took over Pic Vrbovac and Belje, guarantees for which was guaranteed by the state, Agrokor is not and Todorovic.../The speaker excluded./... to citizens, i.e., to us, thank you. [[Intruder President: Thank you, fellow Pernar.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79406	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79407	Comrade Pernar, you don't need to read the portals, you as a congressman, you get to see the contract, there writes everything,... He writes everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know exactly what it is and what obligations Todorovic has made, from those loans that Pic Vrbovac had, it's in your contract. Oh, don't talk to your colleague Pernar, it says there, how many employees he takes over and what time, the same story for Pic Belje, you're even told how many seasons he's taking. Don't speak in your mind, colleague Pernar, let go of the portals, ask for a contract, the contract says everything, and you can call me back as much as you want. However, those contracts were all seen by the State's Attorney's Office. And therefore, colleague Pernar, this is neither defense nor this, I am talking exclusively about facts and facts are my strongest argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79408	Thank you. Let's go to the last line, dear fellow Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79409	Thank you, Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleague Shucker, in fact, in 2015, you said that you were raising Agrokor's credit and everything, so I'm wondering, when the loan was being raised and today I'm asking a question, common sense, if Agrokor owed you so much credit, so of course it has to come back and someone becomes the owner. Of course they're not aware of it, as if they don't know what credit means. So we live, our standard is in Croatia, raising loans over the past 25 years. We haven't been able to raise enough in the economy that we don't have to raise loans. Of course it's okay. But as long as we're doing a loan, speaking of problems, we need to get back to who made the problem and at what time the problem was made. It's a question, not a question of what today was, what was yesterday, what was 2011, 2014, 2015, and why Todorovic owed it so much, it's a question, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79410	Answer, here's your colleague Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79411	I didn't mention a revised financial report at least five times in this assembly today. It's all written inside. It's all written inside, and there's no need to talk one way or the other. About the situation in Belje, it's best to ask the people who live there. They can talk about it, not me or you, you still can, you're from Osijek. So they can tell you from there, what the situation was, what it is now. Also, Pick Vrbovec, we can talk whatever we want. All the advisory houses there were about 2000, 2001, so when the SDP was in power, they said that the company could not employ more than 700 people and there was no idea what the future was. She's hiring 2700 people today. But, I repeat, all the documents exist in the government, all these documents have been seen by the State's Attorney's office, let's talk facts. There's no need, yes, so we're not on the payroll to make a deal, and at the salary when the godmothers hit, she says how much she wants, and you're offering her.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79412	Thank you. Let's move on, with individual debates, dear colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79413	Dear MPs, the esteemed public, who are watching this debate, so I'd like to say, if Mr. Shucker said, we need to talk about facts, and the facts are what they are. The facts are that 200 million kunas of credit, the Pics, the state vouched for them, that's a fact. The fact is, by all accounts, it's the state that brought them back. And what was the trick? The trick was, that Todorovic claimed and I'm taking over a cheap Pic, for a million kuna has actually reached almost 100% of the shares, but as I'll take the debts. So that's why I get a million kunas. It was a story, which was served to the public, it was a story that was served to the workers of Pic Vrbovac. But what happened, Todorovic took over a million kunas of Pic and 207 million kunas, Pic's loans, did not take over, but returned the state instead. What a deal, Mr. Shucker. Well, you could have said that to Pica workers then, here you are, how many thousands of workers, give each thousand kunas, a thousand times a million, and here you take possession of Pica over all his assets, and as a state we write off your loans, so Todorovic came to PIC. And what's going on? After these loans have not been returned or returned by the State, and Todorovic has taken them over as the owner, we come to the next absurd, or the Christmas loan situation when PIC's assets are given as collateral for the loan again. And in what amount? It is estimated, beware, that the value of the mortgage property given to PIK's property is 62.3m euros, 462 million kuna at today's rate. We know it's not worth it, and we know that the resulting state won't be able to charge. And one more thing I have to tell you, Mr. Schucker, I'm telling you honestly, when you're raising a loan, it doesn't give you a 100% mortgage loan, it gives you a maximum of 70% of the mortgage value. So if the mortgage is worth 100,000 euros, credit is given to you at 70,000 euros, you are not given at full value. However, if you are Ivica Todorovic then you are given a credit for the full amount of value, and that value itself is overrated. And now you can tell Mr. Pernar that's not true, but I'm telling you Mr. Shucker it's true and you'll see how much HBOR will charge from it, you'll see, very little. And who's responsible for that? So you were the minister at the time when if I wasn't wrong when Todorovic took over PIK Vrbovac, the finance minister was a minister now and then and then when Christmas credit was given and then what you're trying to tell us is that the wolf is full and that the sheep are numbered. But the sheep aren't at the number, Mr. Shucker. There are 2300 people working in Agrokor today less than they did at the moment when the extraordinary administration took Agrokor. It's a fact, an indisputable fact. It is also indisputable that from this process of the extraordinary administration where a whole number of store entities have been shut down, sales locations that have profited most from this are known to be Ramljak and his advisers. A man described the situation vividly to me, he said, Ivane said when he described these people to whom the government entrusted Agrokor, he said we let the fox into the henhouse. I say fox in a henhouse, he says that and that's the man who's part of your ruling majority. But who has actually been in power for the last 20 years as governments change he always stays, he's the only constant. I believe you'll recognize him. And now what's going on? You're making us believe everything's great, and nothing's great. The fact is that the HDZ together with the SDP has sold out everything that could, and this little thing that is not given to foreigners now is being taken over by foreigners. And you assure us that everything is great, that there's no reason to resign. You're talking about reducing the foreign debt, the government debt that you're no longer in the deficit. So you know how you reduce government debt? Here's how the state says I remember that report on the implementation of the state budget, says the state will be in charge of 10 billion kuna to pay back the debts of the highway, and it will pay back those 10 billion kunas, but that won't count in government debt. So you run accounting in a way that the state raises loans, and that's not being held as a government debt. It's your model. It's easy to say we cut the debt, you just don't record it. Finally, Prime Minister Plenkovic says today that he has a surplus in his budget, so Mr. Schuker, if there is surplus in the budget, so why the 35 billion kuna debt, why such a debt? I ask Minister Dalic, here I may be stupid, maybe I'm uneducated, maybe I'm naive, but here I don't understand if you have a surplus in the budget, what then is a 35 million kuna debt? On the other hand, if it's obvious there's no extras but there's no such thing as surpluses we're talking about. You don't have surpluses, interest expenditures are increasing year by year, public debt has exceeded 300 billion kuna, a record number, and you know it and it's growing exponentially from year to year. And then you serve the public some kind of projection where they'll grow like debt and then they'll start falling. How's it gonna start falling? How will it begin to fall, Mr. Shucker, when 35 billion kunas of new loans are raised each year, how will Mr. Shucker begin to fall, explain, if the state has a 15 billion kuna deficit every year. I'll never forget that Bunjac made me laugh, says Ivane how they work for you, so he says there are, say, 8 billion debts in health care that got paid, let's say last year, but they say we're not going to pay, we're going to transfer them to next year and then they say here this year we're doing great business. So who did great work? So I can say, it came to me for his size Alexander Stankovic for insulting his 57,000 kuna that I have to pay him, 57,000 kuna for his mental pains, my friend, yes. And now watch this, imagine if I said I'm not gonna pay him this year, I'll pay him next, so you'd say Pernar you're unserious. Then when the debt is due, and it's final in 15 days, I have to pay him. Well, ladies and gentlemen, and then you wonder why the Minister should resign. Well, not only Minister Mr. Schucker, I think the entire government should resign because this isn't even about Agrokor, this is just one drop in the sea. The full way of managing the state is a disaster, and the biggest shame is that Robert Jezic, who admitted in court that he took 5m euros in bribes intended for Sanader, has not returned them to the state budget until today. That's Mr. Shuker's shame and that's the reason for his resignation and the Minister of Justice. Yes, yes, Mr. Shucker. But that's not what you're interested in, that's not what you're interested in. Why? Because you're personally fine. I remember when you said this wasn't a new assignment, but we beat up the old debt with this debt. You were talking about some kind of union loans, etc. Mr. Shucker, the masks are falling slowly, people are slowly looking over and they realize that this debt model, interest on interest, leads us all to ruin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79414	We're going to the next debate. Dear fellow Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79415	I would like to thank the president, dear colleagues and colleagues. We will try to get back on the subject, very summed up perhaps this day, but also generally what happened around Agrokor as the main cause and the last year and more. So as we know, HNS was a year ago, or when Lex Agrokor was being made constructive, but he was against, unlike some who were then involved in his making, worked on him, could correct him, modeled and were for, now some situations were turned and what we're saying all along, as one of the direct causes if you just wanted to be there to provide a political deviation, or stability because you know that after our decision just came money, roll up credit, and then I heard what was not quite likely how, what that lex Agrokor did, he didn't bring that roll up credit, exactly. It enables the Institute of the oldest debt so that no kuna of state money goes to that private company. This is the first and primary objective, not even the kunas of private obligations can be paid by citizens. Believers decide on their money, their fate, and they finance it. We do not participate in the operation, but of course, apart from providing political stability and the framework, it is very important for us, because this depends on the future of many of our citizens, our agricultural production, ultimately the economic stability of the country itself. And I welcome this new news about the agreement on the draft, especially since the suppliers accepted the same, and they were the most needed, if you will remember in those amendments where we were constructive about the adoption of this bill, precisely they were in our first focus to roll up them, to give them more opportunity to equalize those who credit in goods when the company was in trouble to allow them to collect the old debt, which is actually all that roll up. Someone who gives you when you're in trouble, you give him the right to charge the old debt before the others, nothing more, just as simple as possible. If someone is talking, it didn't take a billion euros, so out of a billion euros roll up the loan half went to refinance those unfavourable which the previous administration and Mr. Todorovic raised because no one wanted to give him any more money, so the interest was... Half of it went straight to it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All the small suppliers paid off. And what's important is that it doesn't end the story or the draft. There are other things I would refer to, too, we lost the Croatian company, it became an unknown international corporation owned by the party, etc. Agrokor has been an international company for many years because it has its jobs in several countries, it is still a Croatian company based in Croatia. The fact that someone has decided to borrow money and be in charge of foreign banks, that is why today the creditors are future owners of foreigners who will make their governance model the best to protect their interests. We've heard here over the past few months how someone else knows how to protect their best interests, the government needs, Malta not the government should pay for something. Then on the other hand, we hear today that the government isn't responsible at all because this settlement was brought by the believers, the government has nothing to do with it. All that good someone else did, but all that's wrong is the government responsible. So the proposers of this recall just have some little dissonant qualifications if we give the country to foreigners, we give our property, we give our treasure. It was in the hands of a private who apparently mismanaged it, put many families at risk, alone in Croatia as regards economic stability, and then called for help when he no longer knew how to do anything else. There may have been better models to solve this through some changes to the bankruptcy law, but this is one of the ones we have, now we don't have to think about what would have happened, we see that he obviously brought the result and in this sphere we've always said that Minister Dalic, and every other minister above all, all personnel solutions are in the power of the prime minister. And when we talk about Minister Dalic, first of all, she has absolutely taken full responsibility for reaching a settlement and for the Agrokor case itself, and it is necessary to bind her responsibility and success. That's the real reason. The goal, I think, is very clear what must be. Of course the opposition has the right to question, to speak, it's also a task, it would be bad if it were different. But we need to take some facts into account the results that are going. Of course we said so, so I said it this afternoon and this morning. We have absolutely condemned the way the previous commissioner, or extraordinary administration, works, primarily because of non-transparentity. And we see immediately the difference, the current commissioner announces a religious council will hire a company where I used to work. That's what we complained about and said it wasn't transparent enough. That's a big difference. But it wasn't the government that gave something, it was the privates, the believers with their money. Today when there are future owners who decide, who have been there the whole time, and we will pretend to be more Catholics than the Pope and know what is best. All the time we've been saying, of course, that 12 million dollars for some consulting services that no one can even say what it is, or how it sounds a lot. Not for 250 workers, but for the purpose of Parliamentarians here who have far, perhaps, higher salaries, and the same, it seems to them great, and perhaps that they have failed to do so. It's a lot. But the main goal is what is most important, which is to save as many jobs as possible to be functional, sustainable, long-term and procedure and settlement and restructuring. It's the most important thing, and I think that we're on a good track with what we're seeing right now. According to this draft settlement, the debt has been cut five times. Five times. We said that in this procedure not all the winners can be, but equally that everyone is equally satisfied or dissatisfied, that everyone is equally unhappy or dissatisfied or losers, however you wish, because they share debt rather than profit. Of course, small shareholders lost everything. I wish it didn't, but somebody tell me which law you're going to separate one shareholder from another, where you're going to say Pero, can't Djuro or can't Djuro, but can't I.V. There is no law that can allow one shareholder, even if he is Ivica Todorovic to be in a more favourable position than another small one. Unfortunately, he can't. I wish he could, and it's really sad. They proved to be the biggest losers in that capital market, which is in itself risky and sorry, but that's why I'm happy for the supplier, I'm happy for the people, for everything that's been done, for all the results that show up and I think it justifies our trust to the ministers that we're going to show tomorrow at the vote. And I think it was our decision that created this stability where we put our interests, if you will, countries before their political points, ratings and whatever else you want. That's how it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79416	We have two replicas. The first is the respected colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79417	Your Honor. Here, dear colleague, I'm glad you mentioned these exact results and that all these people who have criticised the work of Agrokor in the past period, have just looked at the monthly preliminary reports that are given, for groups and for retailing, wholesale, diet, agriculture, and then individually by each company. There's 16 of them here. Then they would see that these data cannot be hidden, that they will follow both now and in the future. So, you'll see what's happened, what's the plans, you follow... So, all that, that relevant data can be found in the monthly reports, and that's the most important thing to show. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79418	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79419	Here, thank you, colleague Peric. Yes, it's particularly important to me when you mention a group of farms for Belje, Vupik, PIK Vinkovce, where in turn, according to what we saw before tax, depreciation and other donations are doing profits, with profits of 20, 50, up to 156 million kuna profits, as we saw in the report for the first 11 months when I watched and it's promising. Of course there should now be taken all those options and activations by the settlement itself which will happen around the settlement and the debt that will have to be recovered because we know that one part goes into write-off, one part goes to... So, turning debt into ownership structure, and the third one, of course, must return. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when it's all summed up, I think this one... Therefore, it corresponds to the opportunities of the company's insolvency business, not to mention what it carries for all those cooperatives, so if you want those involved in agricultural production, livestock production that is based on these companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79420	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79421	Thank you. Dear colleague Curai, therefore, you say representatives of the opposition. All representatives in this Croatian Parliament have the right to know what has happened to this large company that is of systemic importance to the Republic of Croatia. I'm in a different position than you are. I voted for lex-Agrocor because I thought he would save jobs. What bothered me, the government took responsibility, the government of truth, formally through the court set up an extraordinary administration, but at all times the government had to control that administration and what bothered me, why this hadn't been established before, that someone was using such a single position at such a delicate moment to fill his own pocket. These are things that aren't good. The government was supposed to react to that before, the truth, when it was already removed, the public had already been divided then the public's trust in the whole process, and then eventually the law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79422	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79423	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Sagar, yes. That's what I mentioned about us condemning this nontransparent way of doing business. We don't know, obviously I don't think there were any elements of illegality, but obviously we don't know all the scopes of the work of an advisory, parent home, or the one that got the job and its subcontractors. To go into it, in exchange for people we're not safe, or we're not sure if she knew or didn't know or couldn't, so say, you should have known, through some mechanisms, that you're getting involved more in the work of something, thereby bringing up potential tomorrow lawsuits because you know clearly what the role of the government was, suggest and leave the rest to the court and the believers. And every more interference, therefore, it is very dangerous to go there, to watch reports, to do something, to talk, to slap a hand on a table is a potential lawsuit if something were not for Croatia. And that's why I think it's a double sword so far where we can't just charge it so easily.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79424	Thank you. And now we move on to the last individual debate. Dear colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79425	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we are today discussing and dominateing the work theme of Agrokora, as if the entire Croatian economy is based absolutely on Agrokor, as roses bloom in all other branches, as they really bloom, so says one information of 150 of my peers every day leaving the Republic of Croatia. It is indeed a devastating element that absolutely says everything, that I am not talking about other conditions that depict the economy as regards debt deficits, GDP, growth and everything else. The fact is that on 10 April 2017, by 1 January 2018, Agrokor concert had 2300 people less, 100 Konzum's business was less, about 300 million kunas were paid for 140 advisers, for the former administration's severance payments 25 million. Everyone's mouthful of saving jobs, we see that 2300 people are less. But why am I going to vote for the impeachment of the Vice-President of the Government or the Minister of Economy? Another process that took place parallel to all of this in Agrokor, it's a process that took place in the construction sector, parallelly you have a situation that the constructor went into bankruptcy, viaduct went into bankruptcy, the hydroelectric power is on his knees, Ingra knees, Dalekvod on his knees. How many jobs is that? It's a lot of jobs, and I don't know how many presses were held at the Ministry of Economy. We have now, we saw it on the announcements yesterday, and we know that about a billion and 400 million kunas from rural development have been signed, so as a construction engineer, I sometimes wonder who will do it all in Croatia when the entire construction sector in Croatia is on its knees, where we see that we no longer have the ability to build more serious buildings in the territory of Croatia, so there is no wonder why from the Peljeska Bridge of Investments that Malta will not be largely financed from grants, few will remain in Croatia. It's full of jobs and we see in fact that just as far as the construction sector is concerned, over tens of thousands of people don't have a safe salary, they lose a secure job. As for economic structural reforms, I really can't see them. Well, it is no wonder why neighbouring countries like Slovenia, Romania simply crosses, we have become like, or boast that we are moving forward but there are three animals that are also going forward and turtles and snails and rabbits but it seems to me that we are the slowest, so it is no wonder why the rest of my peers go to Ireland, if this continues, I think they will go to Romania as well. I'm not talking about reforming a public administration that should actually or should serve as a service lever to a strong economy, I'm not talking about digitisation, I'm not talking about everything that our economy would be more competitive, we're just buried in one place, and that's why many young people are leaving. All this is why I will personally vote for your impeachment, clean if another person comes, at least to change one entrepreneurial climate but not that climate that gives 70 million kunas at the level of the Republic of Croatia for all entrepreneurial zones. I come from Dalmatinska Zagora, here I personally invite you to drive from Knin to Vrgorec, in the area where 143 000 residents live, according to the 2011 list, where Malta has not evicted 26 000 people, jobs are not opened, and in order to open up when individual leaders, the commissioners have ready documentation for entrepreneurial zones but cannot report them because you have opened a tender for the entire Croatia of 70 million kuna. It says how much we're being taken, it says how much we care about jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79426	Let's go with the replicas, first of all, dear colleague Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79427	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is currently a protest in Split against the ratification of the Istanbul Convention on the Riviera and a little further activists have released 100 lanterns as a symbol of 100 victims of domestic violence. In this way, we would like them, colleague Sabina Vosovac and I to express our support and once again invite all MPs to vote tomorrow for ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79428	The answer of the respected representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79429	Here I am, colleague Bauk, calling for all of us to be here tomorrow, since we will vote on the Istanbul Convention and impeachment, to light 150 lanterns from Mark's square, how many young people leave Croatia every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79430	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79431	Ninčević Lesandric, thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. counterpart Pranic, you said that the economy, entrepreneurship and craft may change something when the change is made, either by the minister or by the minister. So I want to tell you that in this ministry nothing will change as long as either the minister or minister do not realize that in that name is the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, so there is a entrepreneurship and crafts that simply do not exist for Minister Dalic. So we in Croatia have over 90, I think that 98.5 micro and small entrepreneurs who neither have any competitions or we see any tax and administrative discharge, so what we're talking about, what changes we can expect as long as we don't realize that it's both the Ministry of entrepreneurship and crafts that make up 98.5% of entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79432	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79433	My colleague Ninčević, so I don't know how you don't realize that entrepreneurship is really important in Croatia, it's very important for the full state budget to be imposed so that the same mass of funds can be employed over the last 2 years 3000 in the public sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79434	Thank you very much. Now finally, on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative of Nikola Grmoi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79435	Thank you, Vice President. Here, since I don't know if we're going to hear anything more from anyone from the government, Martina Dalic, the Deputy Prime Minister, on these charges that were made, was not too obvious, except that she showed us this morning a single shirt, the prime minister also used more in certain shipments than he responded to what the opposition was burdening the Deputy Prime Minister and what we had brought out from the morning itself. The fact is that this whole process was compromised, that Martina Dalic, with the help of Borislav Škegra, hired people out of her trust, and these people were just Ante Ramljak and a team that worked first on Lex Agrokor, and then later led the whole process. The fact that Croatian media and the public were familiar with the advice salary affair, that the prime minister waited 15 days in which he would react, hid from the public, studied the documentation for 15 days, and that after 15 days, the government commissioner had left, and no one had any political responsibility. What we wanted to warn as an opposition here is that we cannot hide behind any major national interest every time and then agree to certain malfeasances that were happening here, but this morning the prime minister called them a mild expression that these are indeterminates, that is not indeterminates, that is one scandal that broke out, which has occupied the entire public, although some other issues have now been imposed in public in order to remove the case first from the public focus, and then before this debate that took place here today, means we had a signing, or we had as a draft of a settlement that was presented and thus presented in the media that this case of Agrokora was actually solved, that Martina Dalic saved Agrokor. Of course we all know that's not true. In this speech yesterday, I pointed out who was all responsible for the situation around Agrokor, that Mr. Todorov and Agrokor favored all Croatian governments, that MOST is the first political option that has said enough to throw taxpayers' money away, because Todorovic would probably get another HABOR loan, we now have one case on the commission, but we have a question of how much this commission after a person has been put up by HDZ and removed Dalia Oreshkovic, how much will this commission do its job in the first place. We have the fact that the finance minister has been declared to the commission and that he has advocated giving Ivica Todorov another HABOR loan at that night meeting in the government. So we all know where this story would go if the Most and that Bozo Petrov hadn't said enough of it, we all know that this affair wouldn't have come to an end, we all know that HDZ insisted on that and eventually shut down the parliamentary investigation committee. It is obvious that these truths about Agrokor were feared, but both colleagues Bačić and his colleagues, Boric, who tried to avoid the story of Agrokor, avoided the story of advisory wages, avoided this affair which had hardly compromised this process around Agrokor. And we can't forget what happened in every normal country after such an affair, the economy minister would resign herself, but here it didn't happen. Whatever the outcome of the vote tomorrow, we've done everything, we've collected the signatures, we've filed a motion for impeachment, we've prepared ourselves well for this debate, we've not been denied, we haven't heard any arguments from the Prime Minister, and tomorrow we'll see who's the real opposition, who's the real opposition, and who's holding the ladder to this Plenkovic government. We also forced our colleague Hrelj to practically announce that he will not come to the vote on the recall of Martina Dalic, or that he will not vote. We have shown this in practice that all those who represent themselves as opposition that they are not an opposition, we will see what colleagues from the IDS will do, I hope that colleagues from the HSS who have left the assembly at one call, or it was too late, I hope that this time they will come and be all colleagues from the SDP and that the opposition, the real opposition in the Croatian Parliament, will show unity on this issue. Here I call on representatives from other political parties who are now the ruling majority to consider whether such a conflict of interest is acceptable, whether such a compromise of this process is acceptable and whether Martina Dalic still deserves to remain Deputy Prime Minister of the Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. We'll see what happens tomorrow, but I think this whole debate has shown that the arguments that we've made are strong enough, that they're strong enough, that it's good enough that we haven't gone too far, even though the MPs have been discussing some other responsibilities of the Deputy Prime Minister for which she should surely be held accountable, there will be time for that, for some kind of interpretation in relation to the government and the banks that Alexic or some of the other things that his colleagues in HSS have made. But I think it was good that we only caught Agrokor because the escape of the prime minister, the escape of colleagues Bacic and Boric from Agrokor, shows that HDZ, that Andrej Plenkovic, on this issue, have no arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79436	Thank you very much. I have to say, it's not nice or wise to say that you've forced one MP who's not from your club to come or not come, votes or doesn't vote, it's usually not good to say. But, uh, okay. We have two replicas on your exhibit. One of the most respected advocates is Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79437	Thank you very much. In the context of the new Rules of Procedure, I have kept one replica for the end quite carefully, and I am giving Mr. Grumo enough hands for the opposition, therefore, to have 76 hands so as not to be an opposition. And it's good that we've discussed Agrokor today, and I'm sure this isn't the last debate that's going to be about Agrokor, and there's going to be more and it's good that all the topics have opened up, and just as well that the debate that went into the context, so why are you discussing it anyway, and we know what the vote is going to be, then we don't have to discuss it at all. We come, we raise our hand and everything. But if I were to argue as other colleagues, and so would you, then I'd say there was the same vote of confidence as one minister, so the whole opposition didn't vote, so it was a question of who the opposition was then and how the opposition counted. So the opposition counts in different ways. It's a good thing we did this, but let's not call without our colleagues' arguments, especially if they're not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79438	The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79439	I think that, as far as MOST is concerned, all the key opposition initiatives that we have supported and we will support them, we do not support the meaning of any minister in this government, but not this government, so in this sense you have our support, I commend your constructive approach to this recall where you responded to all the meetings, were very constructive, supported this and had very high quality discussions. I thank, of course, all the others in the opposition who have also participated in the meetings today, who have participated in the debate and I have commended it means, the opposition in general today as regards this debate, and we must also call out those who mean are practically represented as an opposition, and then when such important initiatives come, they say in some way that they will not support them and always find some reason why that is so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79440	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79441	Thank you. Dear counterpart Grmoja, therefore I should also join my colleague Mrak-Taritash who says it is good that we talked about this case even though it is Minister Dalic's recall, but we were talking about Agrokor because Agrokor actually showed a picture of Croatia. The image, although we have accepted the market economy as an economic model, an equal market, is not equal in the Republic of Croatia. You in the shipbuilding today have a large number of cooperatives, suppliers who fear, fear, and continue to be threatened. In the Republic of Croatia, all problems begin with public procurement where people are threatened. So in order for the rest of the business to listen, people have to listen even here in this case of Agrokora, they even have to be in additional debt. When we solve these problems, then we will solve many problems of the Croatian economy and that is why it is good to talk about it here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79442	The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79443	I couldn't agree more with what my colleague Mrak-Taritash said and what your colleague said. From the beginning, we said that we as an opposition couldn't have enough hands to recall the Deputy Prime Minister, if we were guided by arguments imposed on us by certain media and certain commentators, then practically no law should be discussed as an opposition because we are conscious of whatever we say, whatever amendments we make, that this Law will pass. I think it's good that we've opened this debate, and Agrokor will certainly still be spoken of, especially after the settlement is over, and all that we've warned about is whether it's standing or not. When we warned the government's vice president about not being a commissioner, she wouldn't listen. It turned out to be the right thing to say. We'll see how many of our discussions will prove true when the deal is concluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79444	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79445	We are now going to vote on a proposal to raise the issue of trust, Martini Dalic, vice-president of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the minister of economy, entrepreneurship and crafts in the government of the Republic of Croatia. Proposers are 37 MPs and MPs. The debate is closed. In accordance with Article 252. The Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure for making a decision on distrusting a member of the government requires a half-dominated majority of all MPs, i.e. 76 votes. I am voting on the decision to show no confidence in Martini Dalic, vice-president of the government of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship, craftsmen in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. So I say, so 147 MPs voted, 71 MPs were in favour, 76 were against it. I therefore find that no decision has been taken to show no confidence in Martini Dalic, vice-president of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that Vice-President Martina Dalic enjoys the trust of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79446	We're moving on to the next point. Proposal for a Health Foundation Act, first reading, P.Z. No 212, the applicant is the SDP Representatives' Club under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The government has delivered its opinion. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79447	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Solidarity, comprehensive, all equally accessible healthcare, without increasing the cost of supplementary insurance and that for 5 years average we live all longer is the strategic goal of the SDP club. In that sense is also the bill we have tonight in debate. Proposal for a health trust law. The right to health care and the right to a healthy life are fundamental social rights founded by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates the state's duty to protect motherhood, children and youth and to create social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life. The Health Protection Act stipulates that the right to health care of the population of the Republic of Croatia should be exercised on the principles of comprehensiveness, continuity, availability and full access to primary health care and specialised access to specialist and hospital health care. The 2013-2015 Strategic Plan for Public Health Development, taking into account other priorities of the national health development strategy 2012-2020, identified health promotion and disease prevention and the management of preventive activities as two of the eight priorities of public health development. The need for the establishment and establishment of a health foundation is defined in part of the 2013-2015 Strategic Plan for Public Health Development in the framework of the development of the financing system for health promotion programmes and activities, as well as disease prevention and the management of preventive activities. In the Republic of Croatia, a number of preventive activities and programmes are carried out through health institutions or through civil society organisations. Overlaying at population and regional levels is a number of national levels. The result of this situation is insufficient coverage of certain parts of the population or individual populations, the absence of evaluations of individual programmes and the consequent lack of insight into effective and effective intervention in specific environments, which ultimately leads to the irrational use of existing resources and unoptimised and not rationalised prevention as a whole. There are also various individual initiatives through which humanitarian actions are carried out aimed at supplying healthcare facilities and addressing issues from current media presented cases for the purpose of treating diagnostics where priorities and criteria have not been clearly established. The foundation of the foundation would establish a system of management of preventive activities, and the establishment of a system of management of preventive activities would allow coordination, rational planning, promotion and direction of preventive and humanitarian actions in the community while a professional approach to effective management of financial resources through the trust was developed. The introduction of a systematic approach, the identification of successful preventive projects, the introduction of procedures for leading public health problems, the adoption of algorithms to implement programmes adopted and recommended by the profession, will further improve the overall prevention system in the Republic of Croatia. In view of the general objectives of the National Health Strategy 2012-2020, and in particular of the strategic plan for public health development towards health promotion and disease prevention and prevention and management of preventive activities, the Foundation would help to establish coordination between health institutions, civil society organisations and professions in the Republic of Croatia, thereby strengthening administrative capacities in the field of cooperation with EU institutions, as well as the capacity to withdraw funds from the EU. In addition, planning and uniting actions would ensure transparency and sustainability of the financing system, which will focus on real priority needs in the health system, but also on persons in need. As regards the funds necessary for the implementation of this law, it is necessary to provide funds for the start of the work of the trust, the education of officials, the cost of salaries and the means of administrative procedures. Although it is planned to secure from the planned funds in place, it is also planned to secure from the planned funds at the positions of the Ministry of Health at the level of 100,000 kuna so that no additional funding from the state budget will be necessary to start the foundation. Funding for the purpose of the Foundation would be provided from the revenue from gambling, betting, gambling and from donations of legal and natural persons and other incomes in accordance with the law. The rule of law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on criteria for the identification of users and how to distribute part of the gambling income would establish the allocation of funds from this source and for the needs of the health foundation. Given that the funds for the implementation of this law are provided from part of the revenue generated from gambling, betting, gambling and donation of legal and natural persons and other revenues in the state budget, there is no need to provide additional financial resources for its implementation. I hope you will support this law because it will provide solidarity, comprehensive and all equally accessible health care in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79448	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. Excuse me, there was a replica of the respected representative of Peja Grbina.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79449	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Still, the debate lasted all day, so it's possible to have a small gap like this, but there's no problem. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, it is good that this bill is being discussed today because several hours ago, distinguished Minister Kujundzic informed the Croatian public that HZZO has dealt with the profits of 241 million kuna. I'm asking you now if you think it's right that HZZO does business with so much profit when at the same time we have problems getting medicines for children, when at the same time we have problems providing the funds needed for all of what is listed as a treasured purpose in this law, that I don't list these things, for example, prevention of disease, promotion of health protection, etc.? So I ask you, do you think HZZO should act on market grounds, exclusively on market grounds, or is it aimed at doing business with zero, and that all money should be returned to Croatian citizens through care for health care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79450	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79451	Thank you, colleague Grbin, for your question in which you yourself have answered. The HZZO should therefore ensure that health care is available to all citizens in the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. And it's a good thing you just showed up because we see the problems of the General Hospital in Pula that practically has to cancel checks for the simple reason that there are neither enough doctors nor enough resources, and we don't see any way that the Ministry of Health is offering a solution that will soon arise as a major problem in all other hospitals in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, right now all indicators are talking about a drastic decline in the availability of healthcare in the Republic of Croatia, so I hope that we will soon get a solution from the Minister for this problem or simply if he is unable to do so let his place be left to someone else who will have more ability to solve the problem of healthcare in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79452	Thank you very much. Here I am now opening the debate and the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, will speak to the esteemed representative Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79453	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the proposal for a Health Foundation Act submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club at the end of October. This legislative proposal shall contain 26 articles defining, in addition to the purpose of the Foundation, the trust authorities belonging to the Management Board, the Expert Council and the Trustee. In the context of established priorities of the strategic plan for public health development of the Republic of Croatia, as already mentioned under the heading ‘Promotion of health as a third activity’, the establishment of a Foundation for the Promotion of Health and Operational Units of Foundations and Eu Funds and Donations is listed. During that period, from 2013 to 2015, a draft proposal for the law in question was drawn up, but the measure in the strategic plan was not implemented. In line with the objectives of the national health development strategy for 2012 to 2020, The government of the Republic of Croatia points out that the health ministry's priorities are to promote health, prevent disease and manage preventive activities. The idea of promoting health involves improving health and creating a potential for good health before health problems or health threats occur. The promotion of health is defined as a process that allows people to improve their health and to be able to control their own health. A special health promotion service at the Croatian Institute for Public Health has also been established several years ago, which has been reduced to lower levels, but is worth mentioning when we talk about health promotion, other than health institutions, are very important both social and educational institutions, as well as different NGOs dealing with prevention. To achieve all of this, it is necessary to provide the necessary recommendations and promote healthier lifestyles. Already today, we have certain EU countries such as Denmark that are known for promoting healthy lifestyles, so this primarily refers to non-smoking, restricting alcohol consumption, proper nutrition, regular physical activity, responsible sexual behaviour, strengthening the individual's ability to overcome crisis situations. However, as we have an ideological process, so is the ideological pathway and related to the problem, namely the issue of health education and enlightenment. So I appeal here also so that as soon as health care is introduced into schools. It is important to encourage the creation of a prerequisite to make healthy lifestyles simpler and more attractive than other options, to encourage the creation of such a social environment that supports the adoption of a healthier lifestyle, including appropriate legitimate aspects. In its definition of health, the World Health Organization stresses the importance of comprehensive and multidisciplinary access to health, which implies a deviation from mere symptoms and diagnostics and human orientation as a person. So more and more talk about personalized medicine, individualised approach and in general about promoting a culture of health. Three levels should be highlighted here, which are: structural level, community level and individual level. So the structural level is important to reduce structural barriers through support for policies aimed at promoting and improving healthy lifestyles, i.e. the quality of life, the level of communities, the promotion of participation of stakeholders in the community and the development of environmental resources through appropriate labelling of education, the promotion of projects and actions in the community, the implementation of research and, of course, the individual level intended to develop personal capacities and healthy lifestyles through educational and promotional materials. As one source of funding, Article 17 provides for funding from gambling funds. In addition, other forms of financing are listed from the profits of certain state-owned companies and income from assets, donations and other revenues. It seems to me that the sources of funding here are not sufficiently defined, i.e. quite abstract. According to the Law on Games, funding for clearly defined priorities is ensured, which makes it impossible to finance those preventive programmes that are not in the area of addiction and socio-humanitarian programmes. Also, under the Law on Games, the Government of the Republic of Croatia lays down criteria for the identification of users and for the distribution of income from gambling, which shows that the area defined by the law on gambling does not allow for the current health foundation to be financed from the revenue from gambling. In order to implement the activities of promoting health, promoting healthy lifestyles, preventing disease, protecting, promoting and improving patients' rights, including increasing the availability of health care, with the ultimate aim of improving the health and quality of life of the entire population, could be financed from the works of revenue from games to happiness, it is necessary first to amend the Law on Games on Happiness, and then the regulation, in a way that either extends one of the existing areas or adds a whole new one, and that one of the users identified by the regulation give up the works of his income from gambling. The bill does not define the percentage of gambling revenue needed to carry out health promotion activities and disease prevention and the management of preventive activities. In principle, by adopting a project, i.e. a legislative proposal of the Health Foundation, we believe that it is necessary to reevaluate and set public health priorities, as well as a financial framework for the purpose of implementing the proposed law, and since this is not clearly established at this time, the HDZ Club cannot support such a proposal for a Law on the Health Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79454	Thank you very much. The next club representing the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative Bernarda Topolko will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79455	Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill on the Health Foundation. A strategic plan for public health development was adopted in 2013-2015 to decide on the establishment of the Health Foundation. The club of HNS representatives will not support this law for the reasons of the proposal for a Law on the Health Foundation is already among the objectives of the National Health Development Strategy from 2012 to 2020 and the creation of a new Strategic Public Health Development Plan is under way to adapt the objectives of these policies and to further regulate the priorities of public health development and, among them, the Health Foundation Act. This strategic plan will be based on experience and data from the previous period and its implementation. Another important reason not to accept this bill is the lack of sufficient funding from the Health Foundation. One source of funding from the Foundation would be the means of gambling, fortunately, the problem is that the law on gambling states that funding from these sources is extremely specific, and therefore the objectives of the Foundation's action would be severely constrained. The only way to make funding from gambling more extensive is to change the whole law on gambling, which would be constructive. Another problem with funding and money from gambling is that the bill does not contain a percentage that would be allocated from these funding funds to the Foundation. As other funding funds, the Foundation mentions 100,000 kunas that would ensure the Ministry of Health. In view of the shrewd and imprecise source of income and resources from gambling, the Ministry's source of funds could not be able to provide its users with sufficient quality of service. I just want to point out that we're not against the Health Foundation in principle. We in Međimurje County have the Katru Foundation founded in 2000, which was the founder of Mr. Lesar. I think you know him enough number of you. We've never had any trouble financing Katrua. The case is financed from memberships of natural persons of 400 kuna, of legal entities 4000 kuna, various concerts, charity events, auctions of paintings and Katru as such super-functioning. But given this, here's what I've been saying, the HNS can't support this proposal right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79456	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79457	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we're satisfied that at least we have principled support and that means something. It means that the proposal is good, and it's not simply supported because it comes from the ranks of the opposition, from the ranks of the SDP Representatives' Club. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will make sure that we get a new strategic health development plan as soon as possible and that, based on this new strategic health development plan, we get a proposal, their proposal for a Foundation Act that can be freely copied from us, and I would remind you that the SDP has had 18 legal initiatives in the past period, half of which were from the field of health and social welfare. All our proposals have been rejected with the reason that the Ministry of Health will deliver their proposals to the Croatian Parliament. Well, it's been a long time, we haven't received a single proposal yet, so I'm asking the Secretary of State to take our legal proposals and deliver suggestions to us on the trail of those who were. I will remind, it was the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on drug abuse, the Law on Quality and Logistics in Health, the Law on Energy Drinks, the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade, the Proposal for Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Food Activity, so we try, we help the Ministry, but obviously there is no hearing in the Ministry what we see in all indicators, and so, by the European Health Index, we fell from 16th to 26th place, which all says that the situation in the health system in the Republic is not good, that we have a whole series of problems, that these problems are not being solved, just piling up. Here, I would like to ask the secretary of state, given the current issues raised these days regarding health, so to try to solve the problem of medical laboratory diagnostics, to finally tell the Ministry of Health how a continuation of education will be achieved once the doctors graduate because the proposal to be no traineeship is not accepted by the students of the final years, nor by the deans of the medical colleges, therefore, too many problems are present, and we do not see anything being solved. Only problems are delayed, and those of us who are medically well-known, if there is a problem need to solve it as soon as possible, and not wait for it to come to the stage when help is no more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79458	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79459	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, you're wrong. You said there was no legal proposal, but the problem is far greater. There's not a single measure, there's not a single proposal to be made at a lower level. So there's not a single proposal adopted by the government. There is not a single proposal adopted by the minister himself, there is not a single measure. You mentioned the situation with the hospital in Pula before, but it's not the only one. We have a situation that waiting lists grow. You, for example, know that from your experience in 10 months 2017 you apply for a magnetic resonance, you come in line in the 10th month of 2018. A year. It may be easy for me to put up with it as a parliamentary representative. I'm sitting in chairs like this, but it's like working people who are going to have to work in pain for half that time and they won't be able to participate or ask for sick leave and get fired. It's been waiting a year for a magnetic resonance, and these are the answers we're getting from the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79460	The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79461	Yes, colleague of the coat of arms. Unfortunately, problems are piling up. We know that this year health care for the hospital system is provided and more money, 300 million kuna, but that doesn't mean anything, it didn't increase availability, it didn't reduce waiting lists, these funds are actually going to be spent on an increase in salaries that are increased by law from year to year, and nothing is going to be solved, and according to the data I have, it's still creating a new debt of 60 million kuna in the hospital system, while the availability of healthcare is decreasing. Therefore, we face major problems, and Minister Kujundzic is thinking about solving the problem, for example. in a way that the church involves writing a new law on abortion. Therefore, it is a way of thinking of Minister Kujundzic who does not offer solutions for accessible health care in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79462	Thank you very much. With that, we would conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue work tomorrow at 9.30. It will be the first item of the European Council and of the European Council's meetings held in Brussels on 22 and 23 March 2018 and the applicant will be the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and then we will have a vote at 12 o'clock regardless of how the debate will take place, if the debate continues, we will interrupt, vote and continue the debate in the afternoon, if it is necessary. Have a nice evening. Session interrupted at 19.35 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-12-0.u79463	We are now passing the bill on the Health Foundation, first reading, P.Z. No. 212, is proposed by the SDP Representatives Club. The debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a Law on the Health Foundation is not accepted." Please vote. It's not accepted, so it's not accepted. That's the conclusion. I find that most of the votes 84 for, 2 abstentions and 51 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Dear MPs, honourable parliamentary representatives, continue our work. Today we are discussing: - Report on the meetings of the European Council and of the European Council (c. 50) held in Brussels on 22 and 23 March 2018. The President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will submit a report in accordance with Article 11. Law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. I welcome the Prime Minister and ask him to submit an opening report. Here you go, Mr. President.
