ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92276	And debate number two on behalf of Representatives' Club Mosta, colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92277	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about a relationship here, I will speak to the executive and legislative authorities. Here I came from the Committee on Economy where I was as a legislator of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Property Management, we have the government's opinion, but as far as I've heard from the chairman of the Kosor Board, for the first time that no one was from the government. This law would solve a very important drop in the sea, but the important thing that I have suggested is that 50% of the resources from the sale of state property in the units of local self-government remain to the units of local self-government and that we do not create, that is decentralisation, and that we do not create those addicts that mayors, the mayors are not addicted to the state budget and their beggars where the prime minister will come and the ministers at the time of elections and share money, essentially money is from these areas of local self-government units. And that's what happens, and the only thing left to the local self-government and regional self-government leaders of state property where they have, is one of the biggest resources of the potentials with which the state bad lords, the only thing they have to do is make a communal infrastructure, and the money is in the Treasury of the state. Then, of course, counterpart Šipic from Strija, a fellow Istria mayor, Pranic, goes to the minister and be beggars and, of course, no one should contact Miro Bulja because he is in opposition so God forbid the mayor to contact me from another political option because the minister will report to another political option. Why create addicts when we have to centralize? But no one from the ministry for the first time, now said President Kosor worse, and for this reason I appeal to the President of the Parliament, not only to be demeaning the executive authority here by the behaviour of the prime minister who insults everyone and everyone in a boasted way, answers other MPs, mentions colleagues from the HSS when asked by SDP's representative, but unrelated, means this is a continuation of the collapse of this parliament because no one comes for this proposal, of course, I realize that the minister of property has not come because his authority is a million euros, 7 and a half million kuna I ask that he be a million kuna, why so much power in selling the property of a man in hands, why? And the government's opinion says my proposal is counter-constitutional because it's a ownership relationship, a ownership stake. It's not like we gave HDZ to Sanader's INA MOL but stays with the units of local self-government and no one showed up to Bacic on the board on a proposal for this law that I gave in the interest of the local self-government leader. So why don't these people show up? Where's the President of the Parliament? You, Vice President, please write down that there is a sharp denial as he knows it in his style from fellow president of our Gordan Jandrokovic to be one of the sharpest as he says in male style. Because this is amazing that we are being bypassed by committees in the legal initiatives of fellow Members of the Parliament. The council is above the government of fellow Boric. You have an obligation and a duty to be on the next list and to defend the Prime Minister. Was he Plenkovic, was she Jadranka Kosor, anyone. But this is Parliament, this is not a political issue, and this law is good for you as a leader if another political option comes, if there is another, you will have to beg, you will be a beggar, you will depend on these people, and these are the funds in the area of these local self-government. And indeed, the relationship between the executive government, the Croatian Government, is now funny to HDZ representatives, of course, to you, Mr Strick, I don't know for what reason, but all fellow MPs, opposition, authority, as individuals, would have to rebel against the conduct of the executive authority that is usurped by the role of parliament. In this way, not by coming to committees and giving an opinion that are absolutely... All that can be done in the Republic of Croatia, first of all, is illogical, but it is not clear to me that it is the supreme lawyer Andrej Plenkovic associated with the man who led the legal society, who led the Agrokor case Borg, means all these people who are connected have legal professions came from Brussels as a great barber, as a great Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't see any reason why they don't give an extra answer to this decentralisation. Because he wants absolute power over both parliament and local leaders. And to make local leaders the beggars of Andrej Plenkovic, I'm sorry 2/3 of Croatia, starting with my Dalmatian mountain, which of you is the fellow mayors who look at me and the mayors make beggars to whom you have to lick... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92278	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which Ines Strenja-Linić, a respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to talk again today about the problems of the waste treatment system in the field of Marisca, meaning in the centralized county centres that have escalated in the area of my municipality, means the Mariščina County Centre for Waste Management located in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County. So over the past few months in the evening, the smell of unprocessed trash from the center of Mariščina has increased again. Unfortunately, those who need to solve the problem instead spend energy on marketing tricks, announcing that nothing smells and that they are actually septic pits. Protesters and locals of the municipality of Viskovo require that Rijeka, Viskovo and other local units urgently make new decisions on the management of municipal waste, which will indicate that biodegradable municipal waste should be collected separately from all other components of waste, and that they urgently find suitable sites for the processing of biodegradable municipal waste by composting or anaerobic dystestia. And therefore, in early September, there was a closed road and a blocked entrance to the Mariščina waste disposal centre and therefore tomorrow was announced a walk for clean air, which will send a message to everyone who is trying again that it is unsustainable to live next to the Mariščina centre and invite all the locals who will support their locals and residents in this action to support and draw attention to this problem by walking from the centre of Viskova to Mariške alone. So in the last few years, two concepts of waste management have clashed in the Republic of Croatia. One is a burn-out form, which is based on waste preparation at county burning centres, cement plants and energy plants. It is the concept of a linear economy because burning is permanently destroying useful waste raw materials that could easily be recycled, such as paper and plastic. The second ecologically, therefore, firstly supports the current and current Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection, who is a strong advocate of this concept and pushes further construction of 11 fuel waste plants so that even during the summer the government has also taken the decision that it is necessary to study the energy use of fuel waste. And another ecological concept based on separate collection of plastic, paper, metal and recycling glass and separate collection of biodegradable waste for composting and conversion into gas. It is a concept that has actually tried in every way trying to bypass the waste management plan and which was actually adopted during the term of office of Mr. Dobrović's Minister and were then adopted to bring about amendments to the law on sustainable waste management that seek to circumvent the obligation to separate waste as much as possible and not to injure the EU directives which clearly regulate this area. So that's two concepts. Unfortunately, the Primorian-Gorski County what's it doing here? Local self-government units under political pressure from local authorities, make decisions on waste management in which in all possible ways avoids separate collection was waste as well as the formation of locations and construction of composts and that is what actually stinks to citizens. At present, we can actually say that in the annual report of Eko Plus, which is the operator of the central waste disposal zone of Marinščina, only 2800 tonnes of fuel waste that has been placed in the Coromac cement plant and everything else, means all the rest of the 31 200 tonnes has been delayed at the site, so 90% of the garbage received is being delayed and a new landfill is being created against EU provisions for which we are waiting for a year and the payment of the penalty, and that is what the citizens of Viskova smell. The real question is why the cement store did not want to take over processed waste from the Marine plant? Because, according to their words, it is a bad product which, due to the ingredients of mercury, methane and chloride, cannot be classified as either fuel waste or its qualitatively poor RDF variant compared to SRF. So, don't forget, these facilities are planned in 11 other centres in Croatia, and this is what our current Minister of Environmental and Energy pollution came up with as a solution to the problem. The minister believes that a study should certainly be developed to justify the construction of a combustion plant that is thus advocated by his lobbyist colleagues in the lobbyist association. It is therefore necessary to invest another tens of millions in order to address the unquality indigenous toxic waste from the county centres and continue to endanger the health of the citizens of Viskov as well as the other 11 parts of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92280	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92281	We're going to another debate. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92282	Thank you, Your Honor. At first, I would like to welcome all the brave firefighters in Split, my valley of Neretva, on Peljesac, who are fighting these terrible fires, especially the public fire unit Metković and DVD Metković. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have come to the floor to inform you and the Croatian public that Mr Damir Sabelak, a Croatian diplomat who filed a criminal complaint with the DORH last year with information on the illegal use and acquisition of Croatian taxpayers' money in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, was accepted in the Croatian Parliament. Last Friday, the ministry issued a statement that it had received a USKOK solution rejecting Mr Sabek's criminal application of suspicions of illegal spending and the acquisition of state money at embassies in Canberra and Washington. The ministry said the solution was received on Wednesday, so on the same day as the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic here told me on an inquiry in the Croatian Parliament, such and similar performances ultimately do not lead to anything. In yesterday's submission, Mr Sabelak, who reminds her, submits that the DORH, i.e. USKOK, has not yet provided a solution, although Article. 206. The law on criminal proceedings clearly lays down, quotes: a State lawyer is obliged to make a decision on a criminal application within 6 months of the date of the entry into the register of criminal charges and to inform the applicant thereof with short reasons for that decision. If USKOK has indeed not yet delivered a solution to the applicant's criminal application under the law, the question is raised, from where does the USKOK solution come from? Moreover, the applicant claims that since January this year, since then, the chief state attorney has requested an invitation to testify to the DORH, but the DORH did not invite him. Due to doubts about the legality of the operation of the DORH, Mr Sablak asked Justice Minister Bošnjakovic to conduct inspection oversight of the DORH in July this year. However, the Ministry of Justice has not yet responded whether the operation of the DORH established an illegal act. At the same time as filing a criminal application for the initiation of criminal proceedings, however, the same Croatian diplomat in October 2017 submitted a documented performance to Minister Pejcinović-Buric for the initiation of official procedures and the determination of responsibility for the violation of official duties. In the performance, Minister Pejcinović-Buric informed that Mr Sablak had officially delivered the same documents to the Chief Inspector of the Ministry in December 2016. Due to the ten-month absence of any visible reaction by the chief inspector, the applicant informed the minister of the suspicion that the chief inspector himself was involved in the cover-up of illegally spent state money. The documents received yesterday confirm that Minister Pejcinovic-Buric entrusted the suspect's chief inspector with investigating the application, or entrusted him with investigating himself. After such an investigation, the ministry said that, I quote: there are no elements for the initiation of proceedings for breach of official duty against civil servants in the ministry, a final quote. According to the Civil Service Act, the release from criminal responsibility does not assume the release of responsibility for the violation of official duty. But the Minister for the launch of the procedure, through which the state could be compensated, is still 16 days away, followed by a statute of limitations. That is why Mr Sabelak again spoke to the Croatian Parliament yesterday and again requested esteemed colleagues, a public testimony. I recall that the state audit in the report found that Mr. Ambassador Parrot violated the Ministry's regulations while illegally spending state money in Washington. I would also like to remind you that the former minister, and current President of the Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic, 8 years ago without a criminal trial and without a report of a state audit against the then ambassador in Washington and current president, Mrs Grabar-Kitarovic, requested in an internal procedure the Ministry requested the return of the money illegally accepted by private use of the official car at the embassy in Washington. So, uh... [[/Intruder Jandroković: Thank you. Thank you, comrade Grmoy.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92283	Thank you. The MOST advocates' club also applied for a position. In their name will speak the representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92284	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't mean to talk and look back at HNS but here, when my colleague Batinić here talked about their merits with the rescue of education reform, their struggle for our children, here I will thank Mr Ivan Vrdoljak, Srečko Ferenčak, Mr Sauchi, who is part of the HNS Representatives' Club for this reform we witness every day, thank you for delivering 14 tablets to our children, thank you for the textbooks delivered to those socially endangered in our society and here, will have our full support in their dedicated fight for the color of education and for our children. But what I was looking for was a statement that I saw now, and that is one of the perhaps strongest statements that we have ever witnessed in the history of the Croatian state of Parliament, which is one of the highest instances in the country at all, he was probably making a statement: The SMS case has shown that some people abuse the system. Those are very difficult words. And if all that we were saying here is a colleague Sincic has warned here about many irregularities and we from the Bridge Club, colleagues from the opposition, in the Croatian society of many affairs, the media have opened many topics and if that is the fact in this case, then there is no reason not to do so in other cases. And that's what the president of the Croatian Parliament said. And these people, and he's probably targeting key people from his party, the vice president of the Croatian Parliament, Millian Brkic, the minister, means in the government of the Deputy Prime Minister, are obviously those who abused the system about his words. HDZ to deal with factions, within its party, or Plenkovic, Jandrokovic, admits there was a system abuse. And why should I as a Croatian politician, why would anyone as a Croatian citizen believe in the institution of this state. I've been taking out a case here of illegal spending of money at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. On the day of my question, USKOK reportedly provided a solution to the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, although he should not have done so, as the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, is not the applicant of the criminal application. And the man who filed the criminal report was not informed or invited to testify, and the state audit found in 2017 that in the embassy, Washington had been wrongly spent on taxpayers' money. And you know when this affair will become current? When someone needs it for insider dealings. And that's what's sad, and that's what pisses me off and frustrations me, and that's why I'm angry, because our institutions aren't independent, they function on either the diameter or the most powerful people in this country. We have a case of an affair, mentioned here, Hotmail, that's what we have in this case. He said fellow Petrov, this morning, that in this case, the SMS affair would be bitten by a donkey wolf and that would be so. This driver's gonna get hurt, you're gonna settle this party opposition a little bit, they're gonna get a signal, that if they're gonna create problems so they can get hurt and nothing. And these are Croatian institutions. These are Croatian institutions. I also recommend that I do not stop until the end of this case in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, where many are networked and many will fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92285	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92286	CONTINUED AFTER THE MEETING In the respect of colleagues and colleagues, please let anyone who does not want to listen to the free speech sit down, leave the hall, be quiet or anything else, in order to enable the first club, and this is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and the Honorable Representative of Ines Strenja-Linić to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to appeal today to the Prime Minister, as my appeal was made to me by the representatives of 28 drug organizations in the Republic of Croatia with a whole series of experts in this area because the government's decision to abolish the Office for the Combating Drugs that has been working successfully in our system for 17 years. So, the drug fight system for the last 17 years has been under the leadership of this office as an operational body that has been very successful. They've been evaluated since... The Institute, therefore, is an independent institute, one of the leading European systems where we belong to the leading brands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To work on drug prevention, it takes four directions. The prevention of availability, carried out through the Ministry of Education, the treatment of addicts, which is under the Ministry of Health and Rehabilitation, which would be the role of the Ministry of Social Care. Putting drugs under any of these ministries, and planning to be placed under the Ministry of Health, is a complete failure. So exactly the role of this office was expeditionivity, the ability to coordinate all of these 4 segments. So, let me warn you, this has become our brand. In 2005, there were 1,000 new heroin addicts. For the last three years, only 130 new ones have been treated. At the same time, we have a huge increase in new synthetic drugs that come into the market, children who are besides using these types of drugs also faced with monsters called Internet addiction. There is a gambling problem which is a serious problem in the Republic of Croatia, as well as alcoholism. And then the government decides to shut down one of these offices. You'll be wondering why when I'm a member of a party that was absolutely in favor of reducing the number of offices, agencies and all, yes. But then not with a blade like this, it won't be something that was extremely successful because there's no office like this that covers all these segments this multidisciplinaryly. Therefore, the representatives of the 28 associations referred to me as the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Health and Social request and application, requesting that this Office not be shut down. And you don't need to shut it down. And what happened? The position did not even consider it necessary to vote on it on the Committee. So in 2001 and 2002, the committee that sent a request to the government to establish something like this, was the initiator, now the silent committee allows such an important office to be shut down in the Republic of Croatia. So, the request, those who have actually made that appeal think that by joining only this casinoist will drown because it's not really a savings problem, the basic link of the operating body that he successfully fought with drugs has been lost. Therefore, out of the budget of only 4 million kuna, the Office was both a rational and effective institution and concrete projects, strategies and analysis. The system of fighting addiction at the head of this office has achieved truly excellent results. One of the leading experts and head of the reference centre told this opportunity that, apart from the brand of transplants, we might have another very important brand in health care, which is how we fought in the Republic of Croatia against monsters like heavy drugs. So they think that all addictions should be coordinated from an independent body, where experts should be involved because this is a multidisciplinary problem. So, working with years with the Office, these 28 associations have convinced themselves of its operationality. According to available data, more than 7,000 patients are currently in hospital and non-patient treatment in the Republic of Croatia. This is the total number of all treated persons, but according to the experience of those who work in the civil sector, the actual number is at least double the number, and it did not include those who depend on gambling, alcohol and other drugs. So, appeal once again from here, this office really does prime minister, you don't need to shut down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92288	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92289	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92290	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today I'm going to ask one simple question. This is Mr. Plenkovicu, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary representatives of the ruling coalition, do the institutions in the city of Vukovar have their names on the plates? I don't believe you don't know the answer, but I'm sure no one wants to talk about it, that's what it's all about. It's the easiest thing to do when it comes in November to give signs of government support in a column of memories to numerous projects, it's turned out to be a flossula and everyone's pretending to be... those attempts to place the plates of the government of Zoran Milanovic did not happen and that the panels did not exist, that they were broken, removed, beautiful. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will remind you that the legislation of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that institutions must have their names and have plates. Every time you pass there, you break the law. But make sure he doesn't show up anywhere in the news and that's cowardly. It's a cowardly attitude that it's better that the plates are gone than that there's tension in the ruling coalition. It is actually a picture, the opportunity of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, a government which is slowly spoken to by the Croatian people goodbye but, as the people do not hear, neither sees these records. Life in Vukovar is hard enough and believe me that people with all these difficulties are further irritated when they have to look for institutions to enter, when they need to enter the court, that they don't know which municipal, county, they don't know which door to knock on, they're late for the debate. And as far as the records are concerned, whatever they may be, stripped, broken, glued, the fact that they're not there. In early May, I had already warned here that two years had passed since the cabinet session, almost 2 years since the government's meeting in Vukovar, then the government promised, indicated, a law will be passed to declare the town of Vukovar a special pite. We've got a sign, it's coming up. The law is slowly in some outlines of the e-consultation but what everyone expected of the law, which is to solve the issue of the board, the minister said will not be resolved. That's what some other laws do. What laws solve this, which ruling coalition, which government, who is responsible for this situation? Who's afraid? I can only tell the government from here that it's time to take responsibility because time will not solve this problem. In fact, what you leave ruling is actually a space for politicization. You burden Croatian defenders, the victims of Vukovar, burden all those who live, work and create in Vukovar, try to live a normal life. And by your inaction, you take away their opportunity rather than give them a hand of support. What can the Vukovars expect from this government when one panel cannot be solved, so how will the issue of demographics be resolved, how will the economy issue in Vukovar be resolved? And that is why I ask that the government and the local government find a solution and return dignity to the people in Vukovar and Croatian institutions. Because if there's no dignity, the only record will be on the bus station. That's for sure what you're going to say, every time you say it, we don't want it. But if it doesn't matter to you, then why don't you take the plates off both the Croatian government building and the Croatian Parliament building, from Croatian ministries buildings? You may be surrounded by all the problems. If people don't know where to knock to solve the problem, they probably won't have to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92291	Now, for a moment, as usual, we'll end the individual debate, and then we'll move on to a position on behalf of the club. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92292	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, we see from the public affairs that we are forgetting very important. I'd be simplistic about Secretary Divjak and her Life School program. I have to say because I've been called by professors of history and geography, geography who simply cannot believe that they are not in this programme because in the Ministry, as they warn me, in 2018 official pages in June 2018, a curriculum was published in this so-called the dual model of education and is located there both history and geography. But in 27.8, people came to school, some students bought textbooks, teachers prepared themselves, but no more history and geography for students, which is why the minister brought no explanation, who is bothered by the history of vocational schools? I don't have an explanation. Who made the decision? We don't have an official website of the Ministry of Science, here's a link when in six months the items will be, we have nothing. Of course it's time for the minister to tell us who is more, I also asked a representative question in writing, who reviewed history? What are these foreign experts doing reviews? And mostly history and this part of the Homeland War. We don't have an answer from the minister. That's why I'm asking the secretary who they are, the savage, and you HDZ people could ask that question because it's not yours from the HNS that won't do it because they just have to listen to the Vrdoljak. So it's time for the minister to say who did this? What are the international experts and organizations doing this? It's time for Minister Divjak to tell us how possible, how could it have happened that... Our poorest textbooks? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't have that answer yet. A reform where the poorest are forgotten, textbooks. Is it time for the Minister to tell us how much she's paying the PR for the cost of advertising the school for living on TV? Let him just say what he's paying on TV? From the ministry while he also forgets to deliver the most endangered social family textbooks, I have no answer... who appear in public, and these poor people and those teachers who will lose their jobs and those students who study geography and history who would have to rebel minimally, we will give them all of our advocates support that they simply school to go out because they won't have a job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or Vrdoljak's, to be requalified for other directions, such as information. The fact is that we simply didn't discuss it in the Assembly, there's nothing on the official site of the ministry about what I'm saying, mainly shutting down the curricula, shutting down the history and geography that isn't available in the vocational schools, and I expect the ministers to have a minimally decent response to this public, and not the Pilate washes their hands that she doesn't know who did it, that she doesn't know who gave the textbooks, so she's the minister, she's the one who implements those programs because the school's life for school wasn't talked about, or any decisions were made, or conclusions. She put our history at risk because we don't know who did the review, especially the Homeland War, is that maybe in the VB where the lab is? We have our experts and historians who could do it, but we don't have the names and names of those people. I'd like to ask the minister one more time, I asked for it in writing because people call me professor of history and geography who are disappointed with this program, first of all, that there isn't one on the Internet, what's the interest in not learning history and geography? But that's what the minister would have to say to these people, and who was doing the review of these cases, who was doing the history review, mostly history and the Homeland War, and others? We don't have the names of those, where they were born, in which state, which foreign experts and she won't answer. Well, here's what I expect you're going to do, too, is send questions to a representative because beneath the radar of these affairs that are going through the biggest murder of education in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92293	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92294	We now move to applications, it's 2 minutes to 13 o'clock, and then we can afford 1 minute before 13 o'clock to move on to applications for a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, popular breaks. First up, first up is Mr. Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92295	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here today is likely to dedicate all the club representatives or most of them today's break to Teacher's Day, and our club thinks it's an important topic. Here's what I'd like to congratulate all teachers and teachers on their day. However, where our teachers are today, I would dismember this position in four areas, materially, so the largest expert prepares and at least the salaries in that branch, educational rehabilitators, and here we have recently learned that teachers working on EU projects will not receive 30% of the increase in salary because this increase does not apply to the whole base but only to work on the project. Legal and legislative status, assaulting teachers and teachers is still not considered an attack on an official person. A recent attack on a professor in Varazdin. Perhaps some professors will be forced to requalify themselves as martial arts masters as suggested by the Ministry of Education. Educational inspections, anonymous applications for every teacher's little thing, so it's enough to give a four-year-old to have an anonymous parent report you've become a means of pressure on your parents against teachers. Status in society, they are perceived as arrests that do nothing and their colleges as courses that can, if necessary, be requalified in a few months. The professional situation, in schools, lacks psychologists, educators, defectologists and progress depends on the well-willed director. However, this is not a criticism to the Ministry and Government itself, but to all of us, personally, how much I have done as a teacher's representative, how much we are all responsible for this perception and we are all here for them. I'm not going to be long, but I'm going to read something in the end that a colleague sent me, one actually song, verse about teachers, here's what I'm going to finally read. It's called "I believe in miracles". He says, Although they don't let me raise you now, I have to prepare you for the labour market, as if you're an item from a shelf, don't ask me to be a machine, and sometimes you won't be my number because you and I have a name and a face, while the invaluable blinds lead us, forcing technique, patterns and outcomes, not knowing that you're a miracle full of life, in our oasis we'll hide ourselves, curious about where we can and diligently be, protecting us there will be joy and beauty. I will teach you, you will teach me, with the flower of knowledge let us spread all darkness and shadow. ... To the goal we will never regret the effort, I know that we can grow in age and grace and come together to maturity and wisdom because I am a teacher and believe in miracles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Happy Teacher's Day.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92296	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92297	Before we move on to the last club of MPs, just say hello to our guests. With us are students and students of the O.S. From Dugawa, hello. Let's move on. [[Applause.]] The club of representatives of MOST, respected colleague Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92298	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I also welcome the Croatian public. Last night, we all witnessed some strong news, so there was a massive explosion at the Refinery Ship. The Ship refinery, a huge explosion, as far as we hear 1 dead, thank God they are gone, great material damage and great pollution, that is, the pollution that was released and continued to be released. The first reaction is certainly the view of the sky and the view of the wind blowing, and this time the northeast wind carries smoke, poisonous smoke to Derventa. In the north relief, in the south concern. But what's the difference? For days and days, the opposite occurs, therefore, the pollution from the work of the refinery that we know pollutes the entire area from both sides of the Sava for years, pollutes the environment and, of course, poisons cattle and humans, so both from the north and from the south. What does this event tell us? We know well that environmental standards are very low and that this has been the subject of years of efforts to solve this problem, so to reduce pollution and the burden of the whole area. But as of yesterday, we know for certain that labour standards, so technical security in the oil-processing plant, so where almost everything has to be done, are very low. So the explosion of material damage and I repeat pollution and, of course, human casualties. It is obvious and clear, therefore, that this refinery business that we know brings continuous and losses to the owner is actually a powerful system. The method of pressure, therefore our southern neighbours together with the Russians towards Croatia, and that we have formed a long-standing interstate commission that should have solved the problem of pollution, that the commissions discussed, reached conclusions, deadlines, but each time it was delayed, and we have witnessed that at the end of 2016 the ecological license was extended and that the refinery had successfully continued its work. Of course, things need to be settled in agreement and I personally signed an agreement on cooperation, environmental protection and sustainable development, so as a representative of the government together with the Council, so the Council of Ministers of BiH and this is the right way because pollution does not know the limits and agreements of this type are always for the benefit of all people who border here. But what about Croatian politics? At that time, it was clear that the solution to this problem had to be raised to a higher level. Today we are witnessing that the president has his own agenda, the minister must have his, the prime minister, therefore, lacks the connection, is missing what is necessary to show the state the courage and determination to solve the problems and to put an end to this. Now, today after this tragedy, I think this may be a crucial moment to take advantage of and really end this work, so the refinery that pollutes the whole end and damages, I say again, to the people on both sides of the Sava. On that behalf, MOST will be present today in Brod, give importance to this event, give support to people and encourage the determination of Croatian authorities to deal with this finally and seriously. As an example of solving a problem which, of course, has its concrete applicative value, we have put in the procedure of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, which we have built in the internal regulation of JANAF on the terms of transport of oil, to the legal level that can be dealt with, of course, and limit the quality of oil supplied to this refinery. Of course, this is just one method and in the state and all the instruments of the government are to define clear and concrete steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92299	Thank you. The fourth is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Nikola Grmoje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92301	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. This is Damir Sabelak, a Croatian diplomat, the father of two children who discovered the illegal spending of money at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, who testified before the National Anti-Corruption Council here in the Croatian Parliament and after whose testimony from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs confirmed that they had violated the lawyers. Do you know what happened to this man? He's been away from work since Friday. I've had a few coffees with this man, so I've tied myself to him, I've seen that his truth and struggle for Croatian interests is in the first place, so it's likely that this speech of mine will be colored with emotion. Minister Pejcinović Buric's message is clear, if you fight corruption, if you fight for Croatian interests, you will be punished. Instead of being rewarded for professionalism, for patriotism, for being truthful, he is punished and away from the ministry. And I can say that we have two Croatians. We have Croatia Plenkovic, Jandrokovic and Burićka and we have Sablakova Croatia. This first Croatia is oiled, coated, semitronic, analytical and this Sabelakova is truthful, loving for Croatia, ready for sacrifice to make this Croatia finally fair for every citizen. I don't know what's going on inside of me and what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on? So when you see that there's almost nothing you can do. But you know what makes me? He's making me stubborn! And this man just asked me, Nikola, you're gonna leave me now, too. I won't because you would betray that Croatia I've been fighting for all this time, that's not where I intend to betray Croatia. And against that Plenkovic and Jandrokovic and Burićkina Croatia I will continue to fight hard here in the Croatian Parliament. Because this Croatia tolerates corruption, such Croatia issues Croatian national interests. Because apart from what Minister Pejcinovic Buric did, she also shut down the commission to monitor the verification of the criteria in chapters 23 and 24 in negotiations with Serbia. That commission never met once. The issue and conflict of Minister Pejcinovic Buric, who also worked for the government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, also opens there. It is Croatia Plenkovica, Jandrokovica and Burićka. This Sabelakova Croatia will win eventually. And I'm gonna close that cheerleader, and you're gonna be Croatia again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92302	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92303	Thank you very much. We see that we have a lack of money in health care, education, and an example of how they behave, that is, how we behave and allow teleopers to behave in our country as they do not behave in any European Union country or Europe, so in Croatia, Hrvatski Telekom has a profit, a 40% margin, and at the level of Europe 20%, and in countries where they come from they have much less. What's that about? Because they don't need building permits, they don't need projects, they don't need neighbour's consent, they don't need spatial plans, they don't need anything. They act the way they want and set up base stations wherever they want. I gave a legal initiative, which, together with the Croatian Association on the Protection of Electromagnetic Emissions, I developed, which would solve this problem, the Construction Act, does not accept it by the Government. Why, as citizens, when we expand a balcony or a terrace, we have to have the consent of neighbors and permission, and teleopers don't need it, why should we have it in Germany, Sweden, where they come from, and in Croatia they don't need it, why not pay for projects and infrastructure building, but, among the bases, put base stations next to houses, put base stations wherever they think of it? Why do they not pay the right of service in Croatia, as they pay them in their own countries? For example, in Ljubljana, EUR 3 per metre, there would be money, there would be money, but they put us base stations of school, hospital and even church bell towers. And of course, there's even worse thing about radiation in the Republic of Croatia, the Minister of Health, here is good to hear 890 times the allowed radiation limit than the examples in Paris and Vienna. And neither Paris nor Vienna was returned to the Stone Age, was returned 890 times and according to the World Health Organization of 2013 radiation electromagnetic radiation is possible cause of the tumor. That's why we have an increase in tumors, that the teleopers in this one will pay us in the health register, in the budget. And mostly the greatest impact has radiation on children, and the most endangered are them, because they put where they shouldn't pay for infrastructure. We have an example in Sinj, at Radosce, yesterday I was, here, before I say in Bork in Zadar, so we put it in the bell tower. So they are not priests, to be shepherds, to be shepherds of teleoperators, they must be shepherds of the people. Not even the bishops, and the mayors and the mayors, the Prime Ministers, we must not be courting teleopers, they must pay the right of service and must pay, we must have a building permit, if they have it in the countries where they come from. They have even in Serbia, outside the EU, in Montenegro, and the biggest profit is in Croatia, and they draw that money. I'll tell you the example of Radosic at Sinj, 3 years ago 4 I was an activist along with Mr. Nikola Crnco, who came from Australia and that money, all his life invested there, to build a house, he built a house, however, there was an old building, where a teleoperator planted the base station, built a base station, the police took us in. Only after a number of interventions, mostly Mr. Black, last year, a construction inspection came in, so it was four months ago. They should have determined that they had to remove the base station until 6 months ago. It's been six months. So again, Mr. Blackac, I spoke in the assembly a lot, the Black guy wrote to the public defender, and just now the construction inspection gave 70,000 kn. And now five more times they have to give that sentence to bring down what is illegal in Croatia. I also wrote to the Swedish ambassador and said, "I asked him if this is how a teleoper behaves in Sweden, it's not safe." And once again, numerous base stations, the infrastructure in Croatia is being set up where people want, at the expense of the city of Zadar on our citizens. I call on all citizens to join the Croatian Association for the Protection of Magnetic Emissions and that we all finally have the same rights together and that teleopers behave as in their own countries and that we have money for health care, not to radiate our children, and that they must pay Croatian citizens, while capital draws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92304	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92305	I pray now that those who wish to report for a free debate and others leave the assembly. You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92306	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I will use this exhibition to look back on one of the most important topics that is now emerging in the Croatian public space, which will be particularly current next week, and this is the announced pension reform of Minister Pavić and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which can be freely told by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia because it is deeply in the future and it is pulling implications away from the past. Namely, one user on social networks wrote no more, no more writing up, because it seems to me to be a challenge for the government to show us that he can still. For example, pension reform is what is really happening. We could set two things apart from the reform itself and two things about the reform that arises around this law, about these packages of laws. In the first we see this from the State Secretary's appearance in the shows that were n HRT, I think it was the theme of the day and the Open where she and the union leaders are confronted in a way to say and you kept quiet there in 2014 when the SDP government introduced it for 67 years. And the second thing that the West for the Eyes is PR and Minister Pavić then the general government in general when it talks about the pensioners getting bigger. I'd say it like this. First, this issue of pension reform should be a matter of consensus, a question of talks with all those interested in the Republic of Croatia from political parties through unions, through pensioners' associations to find the right solution because it is incomprehensible for me that union leaders have only one single request as far as I understand it, say remove the increase to 67 years and then we'll talk and that's the only condition and there's no government at all hearing about it. When we talk about these 67 years, then we might as well call this reform a reform of the Old Testament. At the age of 500, Noah began to build an ark, and at the age of 600, he entered it. However, in today's conditions in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, we cannot boast of such a lifetime as our fellow citizens, especially those who have worked hard their whole lives, whether in the sun, in the wind, and therefore this increase seems to be 2 years old, so it's not much in a man's life, in those years, it's quite a lot and that provision should be removed from this law urgently and we should think about it because we cannot, in that sense, compare ourselves with the advanced EU countries. And another thing, we have to be open to the public, clearly say, I see that the minister is afraid, many are afraid when they come into the situation to be held accountable. We have a million and 233,000 pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. Of them, 175 000 use preferential pensions. And if we're talking about penalization and if we're talking about everything that needs to be reduced to the exposure of the pension system in the future, then we can't just not mention it. It would be fairest if we were to separate the pension system into earned pensions, into preferential pensions and social benefits, social pensions, then we would be very clear which part of the cake belongs to whom, then we would be clear that 17 billion of which the minister is talking about and when he talks to the citizens, he says in such a way that we didn't actually give anything but to the citizens from the IRS, from what they're taking it back in some way. So, it would be clearer the earned pension, which is the pension that came on the basis of an internship, a full-time job of 40 years or years of age and full-time employment. And one more thing, that's what union leaders warn about, if we're talking about the average employment rate of our pensioners, we can't forget the '90s when the pensioners are robbed and they're forced to retire. This "terrestrial" under quotes, however, had no other choice and then, under the terms of the law at the time, it was so. I personally won't be able to come to Zagreb tomorrow, I won't be able to come to the pensioners from my place, I invite them to the square in my place, invite us to go across the street to our church in Sidro cafe to talk a little bit about pension reform and thus support tomorrow's protest that will take place in the European square. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92307	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92308	We're moving on with the rep club. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists is counterpart Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92309	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased that in this assembly the Minister of Economy is currently behind, to hear about the non-transparentity of his ministry, about the non-transparentity of the acts he signs on the non-transparentity of the functioning of this state through public procurement. The Republic of Croatia has at its disposal... billions of euros in EU funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only 9% of EU funds have been withdrawn by 2020. 2014 to 2020 RH has paid, will pay,... already paid most of the 4 billion euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Five times more payments to the EU through membership fees and the rest, she paid more than she paid back. What's this all about? Because the 50 billion kunas we have a yearly public procurement is untransparent, because it's $11.5 billion of which is carried out through 200 thousand kuna bazaars. 11 billion and there is the city of Zagreb ahead, buying voters, destroying competition. One eclectic example is the public procurement that took place in Sinj city for the riding hall, then the competition was opened in 2017 at 12 months where the criteria were 70% of the price, 30% of the reference. Next month, 30 days later, the criteria changed to 46% of the price. The selected offer, which costs 10 million kuna and the City Council of Sinja, explored the criteria at the the thematic session. Who changed the criteria for choosing an offer of 10 million more expensive than 23 million kuna, selected 33 million kuna? And we had bidders who had 10 million, 9 million lower bids. The City Council is sending a conclusion to the Ministry of Economy. The minister signs because he either didn't have glasses or forgot to take a binocular, I'll buy it for him, signes that that public procurement was conducted in accordance with the law. There is no telling who was changing the criteria and why, without a prior debate, a public debate. The changed criteria of the Ministry of Economy say there was no illegality during the procurement process. Minister, how about this, you signed that document? You signed that document. Explain to the public whether it is legal to change the criteria, Minister Horvat, whether to change the criteria during public procurement without debate, in order to choose an offer of 10 million kunas more expensive. And so in Croatia goes on. I warn this because this act, where the minister said there was no illegality in this public procurement, is in the future a message that in future public procurement is also used by illegality, that it is done illegally. Ministers will come to you again, even the party your party sent you five months ago also sent you a memo, a play, an explanation, you did not respond to, whether, illegality, i.e. the search for neither the City Council of Sinj and your party. Is this a country that from top to bottom, allows public procurement to be carried out at the expense of the Republic of Croatia, which is why we have withdrawn only 9% of the funds from the EU, which is why young people leave us, because the lobbys that are the pests of this society, through all the ministries and in you Ministers Horvat, allow public procurement, furniture to be carried out, that we do not have specifics, that competition can simply be bought publicly and be done in the interest of these lobbies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92310	Thank you, fellow Bull, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92311	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92312	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I want to get to know you and the Croatian public with one problem which at the moment some media is writing about him, something about him is known but will eventually have deep implications in many areas, primarily on local self-government units and then on Croatian Forests and later on to the entire demographic picture of Slavonia and what seems wider in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, every day hundreds return to the Republic of Croatia, and even thousands of hectares of forests and agricultural land, which according to the Law on Retracted Property during the Yugoslav Communist Government, are returned to previous owners. to the families of the great owners. Not getting into the value of whether it's okay or not, is it just, is it not fair, should warn citizens that many units of local self-government will be left without significant incomes. In my municipality, which has 3500 hectares of agricultural land to return, 1500 hectares is required. That's not a small amount. The forest is daily, according to the testimony of people working in the Croatian forests, the forests are returning, the question is what will be managed by tomorrow's company of the Croatian Forests. So this problem will soon come to light that way and trust me it's not banal. And when we talk about it, people who talk about it, who want to stand up to it say it's about extremely powerful, financially powerful families and the extremely big money that's at stake. I say again not getting into it whether it's right or wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92313	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92314	We're going to another debate. Dear colleague Marko Sladolev on behalf of the club of representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92315	Thank you, Mr. President. I will hold a break on the disastrous works of Zagreb Holding and the catastrophic living conditions in the town of Bresti Sesveda. For several days now, 50m apart on the Brestovac road, which is usually the main road in the neighborhood, the water pipes are firing, and about 10,000 inhabitants are running out of water. All residents are on the verge of a nervous breakdown and all roads in Stari Brestje have been unearthed for the fourth year in a row. The work on water, sewer and gas installations is done in a way to dig something up, do a little work, and leave it that way. After 3 to 4 workers of the varazdin company who are probably Holding subcontractors come into the neighborhood every 20 days, dig up, do something and leave it. All the city institutions wash their hands, say that it is not in their jurisdiction, but a contractor who should patch the roads after some work has been done, and I note that the worker is the guide of the city of Zagreb. But this is already 4 years ago as the citizens of Sesveta live in dust and stones, their cars have been destroyed, car accidents are very common, and most often due to the sliding of a car from rocks and tents, the stones from the road fly everywhere, and children who go to school are in daily danger. And now, because of the daily cracks of the water pipe, basic hygiene needs cannot be maintained. In a joke, neighbors called the peach road a new Bandic fountain, and the president of the Bresti local board announced that such a situation would continue and that the pipes would shoot constantly until new ones were replaced. You can view the open Facebook page of Breste-Sevete so you can see photos of the neighborhood’s inhabitants on it. In addition to all of the above, bulky waste that irresponsible citizens reject along the streets in Brest is not being transported for more than a year. They're literally tons and tons of garbage along roads that pass every day. The sewerage network in the old Brestje, which is just called but is mostly a new residential building, is released from several 3 streets into the main river stream, and the stream passes by only a children's school playground with which children often enter the ball when they cross the fence and put their health at risk. I note that the town of Brestje is one of the most growing neighborhoods according to the number of inhabitants in the city of Zagreb i.e. that it has the largest birthplace, in the neighborhood lives very many young families and neighborhoods that were once beautiful and decorated with many new residential buildings and greenery, now it seems completely devastated by the irresponsible competent institutions of the city of Zagreb that do not provide us with basic hygiene conditions, water in cans and barrels is held daily in their bathrooms because they never know when the water pipe will break. Most of them find themselves washing, showering with relatives, in another neighborhood while drinking water delivers tanks or buys in shops. However, this is not the only neighborhood that has 80,000 inhabitants and whose citizens pay 18% daily in the city of Zagreb, so they have major traffic problems. In the center of Sesveta every morning traffic chaos, busy work and inadequate spring crossings and the inability to go out on the bypass or Slavonian Avenue through Novi Jelkovec. Mayor Bandic built hundreds of buildings in Novi Jelkovic, inhabited 1,000 people and 1000 cars and the infrastructure remained the same. Branimir's sequel through the Council has become a myth, it's been promising for 15 years and nothing's happened. As of this year, Mr Bandic hired a special commissioner for the task after the town's council member, Vladimir Maric, forced the topic on the agenda, however, he cared about it. In addition, there are countless unfalsified and broken streets in the Sesvets that are no longer being solved even though these people live in the largest neighborhood of the capital in 2018. I call on Mr. Bandic not to deal with the collection of Pokemon by the Parliament and the owners but to focus his focus on the Sesvete in order for the citizens to live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92316	Good afternoon, everyone. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] The president's taking a break is still a privilege. So we will begin with Mr Tomislav Žagar, who will be the position of the Representatives' Club Most Independent Lists on the subject they will now tell us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92317	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, here, I didn't really think I'd be able to do this or discuss it in the Croatian Parliament, but here it seems to me that the time has come for us to examine the views or all the principles on which the EU has been called and called a community of states where all should have equal rights, but we should strive to do so. In this statement, I was offered a decision by the Austrian parliament on Wednesday evening, when they made a decision to reduce all, to their children, workers, who work in Austria who do not live in the territory of the Republic of Austria, a child's allowance and a significant amount. I approve or agree that the Republic of Austria has the right to protect its finances, they are talking about the savings of 113m euros, not only, they are not just children from Croatia, but also from other working countries. That's what they're entitled to. However, as citizens of this country, it bothers me that in this way they are shown as hypocrites, and on the one hand we have defined the EU's declared principles and with the Lisbon Treaty and the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, and they mock them. It was more acceptable for me as a built and resident of the Republic of Croatia to say all children living in the Republic of Croatia do not have the right to a child's allowance. That was better. You know what message they're sending? You can't get the same amount of child's allowance because you come from a poor country. You're poorer and you don't need money. At the same time, forgetting that this money is used for both education and education, as well as for the same children, who will probably tomorrow, because of the circumstances we ourselves are guilty of going to that same country to work on their welfare. It is true that the European Commission warned Germany, when Germany wanted to make such provisions first and they gave up on those provisions, but the fact is that they only did it temporarily. The fact is, it's an article. 24. The EU Charter of Fundamental Rights is very clear, children have the right to protection and care necessary for their well-being. They can freely express their opinion. Their opinion shall be taken into account on issues relating to them in accordance with their profits and maturity, in any action relating to children, whether carried out by public authorities or private institutions, the primary objective must be to protect the child's interests. Each child has the right to maintain a regular personal relationship, direct contact with both parents unless it is contrary to his interests. So here you forget about the child's interest. I do not know whether the intention of the Republic of Austria, that the children of workers who are now working there in Austria, come, that in this way they move them humanely to Austria or that there are quite others here from these economic principles, however, this policy is hypocritical and I say, therefore I have never, until now, and I have convinced myself that membership in the EU is not an easy choice in Croatia, that is its fate. However, to humiliate us and classify us as second-class citizens in the EU is by no means desirable and not good, it is not a good message at all. It is said in Europe, more speed, it seems to me, that instead of Europe, we will have more speed only Europe, in which the rich will be able to live and those less rich will live much harder, and this is done in such measures. I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission, I say, will already do so, I hope that it will prevent such a discriminatory law, because it goes right to the detriment of the poor and ultimately and to the harm of children's rights. That is why I call on the Croatian government to react sharply to such decisions by one of the EU member states so that we do not get more than the EU speeds of more horses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92318	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92824	Honorable MPs, respected parliamentary representatives, good morning. We're going back to work. First item today - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 398 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation of the bill. With us is Honorable Zeljko Uhlir, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92825	Thank you very much. Appreciated representatives and MPs, Croatian Parliament president. The existing law on operations and activities of spatial planning and construction published in NN No 78 in 2015 regulates the conduct of professional activities of spatial planning, design operations, professional supervision of construction, the performance of the work of project management, and the conduct of tasks and activities of studies and previous research, all with the purpose of ensuring quality professional and responsible performance of these tasks and activities, as well as the achievement of the objectives of certain specific regulations governing the area of spatial planning, construction and construction products. The law also regulates the performance of the tasks of responsible persons under the tasks of the profession, architectural, construction, engineering and electrical engineering professions and provides for the obligation to pass a professional examination of the responsible persons in spatial planning and construction, professional training and conditions for foreign persons performing the tasks, activities of spatial planning and construction in the Republic of Croatia on a temporary, occasional or permanent basis. The three-year implementation of this law highlighted the need for further compliance with market conditions, then clearer formulation of certain provisions of the law, as well as the need to comply with the normative solutions and practices of EU Member States. The proposed law regulates the following: further harmonisation of the provisions governing the performance of spatial planning and construction professional operations with the 2005 and 2006 directives on the recognition of professional qualifications and on services on the internal market for the purpose of facilitating access to the Single Market is carried out by the European Economic Area Single Market. That amendment also ensures the implementation of the action plan in the field of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2016 to 2018. Administrative barriers to the performance of works and activities in construction are reduced, and is particularly regulated by the manager of less complex works with the reduced work experience of 10 to 5 years to date. Furthermore, the opinions of all stakeholders in the construction system in the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the applicable legal provisions relating to the carrying out of the activities of the examination of certain parts of the building for the purpose of verifying, or proving, compliance with the basic requirements for construction and previous research essential for the design of construction and maintenance of buildings have been evaluated and certain norms have been accepted and harmonised. The implementation of mandatory continuous professional training of persons who carry out spatial planning and construction tasks in the capacity of an authorised person, and which will be regulated by a separate regulation that will be developed in cooperation with professional chambers and associations, shall be ensured. More detailed consideration shall be given to the removal of ambiguity in the application of certain provisions of the laws relating to the conditions for the exercise of activity from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Home Affairs, i.e. by legal and natural persons, craftsmen carrying out those activities in the Republic of Croatia on a temporary, occasional or permanent basis. Furthermore, a clear statement clearly determines which professions are the subject of this law, which are those which are acquired by the completion of an appropriate study in the scientific field of technical sciences. In addition, more detailed consideration is given to investor obligations which are bonds of application of the public procurement law for the appointment of project leaders before making an investment decision and according to the financial thresholds, depending on the type and complexity of the buildings, all in order to improve quality preparation and implementation of the projects. In addition, design surveillance is being further developed as an inseparable job from the development of the main project, further for foreign authorised natural persons an examination of the knowledge of Croatian language is being introduced, it is being moved to solutions based on greater control of the execution of professional affairs, spatial arrangements and construction carried out by the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning and supplementing the infringement provisions relating to the parties, legal and physical persons who carry out the work of spatial planning and construction in the Republic of Croatia on a temporary or occasional basis. The general objectives of this law through these proposed amendments shall be to regulate the conditions for performing spatial planning and construction activities and to ensure the right to provide services and the right of business created by Croatian economic operators and individuals within the European Economic Area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92826	Let's go with the replicas. The first is an honorary colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92827	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state. The subject of professional training. So the topic of professional training is extremely important, it is extremely important that all participants, regardless of their planning, designing and construction, are continuously professionally improved only so that we can be competitive on the EU market and get quality in the Croatian market. The current provisions of the law have defined professional training and have equally said that the regulations will build a chamber, and the ministry will only be someone to look at it, now we have the opposite. That is, my question is very clear and it will be very clear and articulated, and that is the subject of professional training. Does it mean that points will be reassessed that will be required or will it still remain the actual relationship between the participants in the construction and the investor to which he will show his additional values or will it be an obligation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92828	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92829	Thank you very much for asking. To clarify, therefore, it is also clearly stated in this introduction and through the proposal of the text of the law it will be a obligation, not a good will and released on choice but a obligation because it has proved that certain professionals ignore their knowledge and do not follow the profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92830	Let's go to another replica. Dear colleague Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92831	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92832	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92833	I appreciate the question. We get a little out of this law, but the procedure has been respected and all inspection services have exercised control over Plitvice Lakes so that the results are less or more known and procedures against those who have sinned against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92834	Third replica, respected colleague Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92835	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear secretary, I'm only interested in one thing. Who will now cover the area carried out by authorised landscape architects and do you think they have sufficient training to do so through their education and work in an adequate way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92836	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92837	Regional architects will continue to do jobs that could have been done since 2014, nothing in that section has changed. So those who are trained in biotechnical sciences will be involved in this work and those who are trained in technical sciences will continue to deal with this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92838	4th replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92839	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, any intensities to encourage entrepreneurship and in this way as you have noted in the bill that on this last side of the interrogation and checking a little relaxation situation is welcome. However, do you think that this is good enough in this situation in which today and Croatian construction is in general because on the one hand you have a little strain on the pipe let's say on the incoming side of the money by introducing the project manager at the very stage of preparing the investment. On the other hand, you're reducing control through that system, you no longer need accreditation in the sense that it's been so far. Do you think it's for the current situation in the Republic of Croatia to say desirable? Just remember the farm in Andrijashevci where 10 thousand pigs were burned. Apparently, I didn't follow up later. Apparently, there was a malfunction. Watch out for electrical installations. That's why my question is whether you think it's a good provision to reduce control and previous interrogations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92840	Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92841	Thank you very much. It is not said that complete accreditation of the examination procedures will be denied but only that the regulation will regulate it so that it is not as a legal solution at present that everything must be accredited which is economically unsustainable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92842	We're going to the 5th line of the esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92843	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I have a question for you whether in the making of the Law you have ever communicated with landscaped architects since they claim to have been kicked out of the whole story. We get a lot of e-mails, so negative in this law because according to them, they're actually thrown out of the whole story and we think it's an extremely interdisciplinary college that actually, here's enough to look at the flora art and see how creative these people are and how important it really is interest in the spatial arrangement so I'm interested in communicating with them in making this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92844	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92845	The non-communication was a permanent, which in the written dialogue, which was in the open dialogue. So yesterday, on the Committee on Construction and Spatial Planning, they were also representatives with whom we communicated, so all the time they communicate, and slowly they also understand what their role is in the construction processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92846	And the last replica of his esteemed colleague, Nicola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92847	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I would refer to Article 38, which defines the rights of authorised natural persons from the EEA Contracting State. Our advice considers it necessary beyond the paragraph, "has a professional qualification" to add the subheading "has a level of knowledge of Croatian language at level B2" and to define a certificate. So in the regulation for projects, statements, reports are stated that they are written in Croatian, resulting in the fact that authorised persons cannot carry out the laws and rules of the defined tasks without knowledge of Croatian language. So if there is a disputed authority, it can be a defense in such a way that it does not know what it believes if the Croatian language is unknown to it so that it should be better defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92848	Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92849	Thank you very much for your proposal and your remarks. So for temporary and occasional, it can't be regulated but for a permanent yes, we have prescribed and this law is introduced as a novelty.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92850	Okay. This is what we came to the end of the line. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of HDZ Representatives, respected counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92851	Mr. President, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate, a respected colleague of mine. The HDZ Representatives Club supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction. The purpose of this law, such as that of the State Secretary, was the administrative discharge of professional business services. In accordance with the measures laid down in the action plan in the field of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2016 to 2018, it was necessary to initiate an amendment to the provisions of the law with a view to further harmonisation of legal solutions governing the performance of the tasks of the project manager of the national State of the European Economic Area Contracting Party which intends to carry out those tasks occasionally or prematurely in the Republic of Croatia. In this way, it is ensured that the chamber in the process of verifying the professional qualification of project manager, the national of the Contracting State of the European Economic Area is not obliged to verify the side of the professional qualification of the authorised person, since it is not a profession of the security sector. It is known that construction activities are most affected by the consequences of the economic crisis as well as the effects of the opening up of the European Economic Area market. Following the above, the statement of opinion of all participants in the construction system in the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the applicable legal provisions concerning the carrying out of the activities of the examination of certain parts of the building for the purpose of verifying or proving compliance with the basic requirements for construction and the previous research essential for the design, construction or reflection of buildings has been evaluated. The fact is that the provisions of the applicable law host entities in the activities of the examination are very demanding conditions for mandatory accreditation which has been examined more closely during the preparation of these amendments, taking into account all the advantages and disadvantages of such a system and taking into account the maximum efficiency of the system for the economy. There are certain discrepancies in the application of certain provisions of the laws relating to the performance of works and construction activities as well as the conditions for foreign legal and natural persons, craftsmen carrying out those activities in the Republic of Croatia on an early or occasional basis or on a permanent basis. Those provisions should therefore be more clearly formulated, in particular, by those relating to the department for the exercise of the activities of the Ministry of Home Affairs or by foreign legal and natural persons of craftsmen who carry out those activities in the Republic of Croatia on a temporary or occasional basis or on a permanent basis. This law regulates the performance of the professional activities of spatial design, construction, project management activities for the purpose of ensuring quality, professional and responsible performance of these tasks and activities, as well as the achievement of the objectives of specific regulations governing the area of spatial planning and construction products. Therefore, administrative barriers in the performance of works and works in construction are reduced, the implementation of mandatory... professional training of persons performing spatial planning and construction tasks in the capacity of an authorised person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, it seeks to review the evaluation of solutions to date in relation to current and predictable jobs and economic circumstances, the balance between the need for a more free market, the approach of the market for economic operators. One of the most important newspapers in this law that would point out is that it enables a legal person and a natural person to perform the activity of managing a particular building project so that you can perform the design work of the building. I point this out as a very important provision. Also, to enable employees of a legal person or natural person of a craftsman who performs the project management activity of a particular building so that he can be a designer on the same building. It should also be made clear that an investor who is also a contractor can contract professional construction supervision but must not be involved in carrying out expert supervision, building on a building that performs and that an investor who is also a performer can contract an examination of parts of the building but must not be involved in conducting the examination of the parts of the building he performs. A colleague of Sladolev stated in his replica the provisions which, in this way, are understood by.../The law abolished by membership to landscape architects in Croatia, and their design authority was abolished, and it comes down to a co-worker. Until the second reading, it would be good for the ministry to consider once again the proposals of the Association of Regional Architects in order to define their status and then, until the second reading, to be clear about the position of landscape architects in both the chamber and the ability to continue designing. Here's what we're gonna do at the counsel club to support this proposal, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92852	I thank my colleague Bačić. We're going to another club of representatives and that's GLAS and HSU, honorary colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92853	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. It is before us in the first reading of the amendments and additions to the Law on the jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction. And when you read the reasoning of this law, then in the light of this law, the first sentence we have the opportunity to read is that this whole law is done for the simple reason to say the whole process, that the purpose of the law is the administrative discharge of professional services and that it is part of the current economic policy. And when you read it like that, it seems to you that it's all right, otherwise I'm just saying that no law is carved into stone by it, after it's been applied for a year, two, if you see a problem, it's no problem to make changes and supplement all of it together, to relax the whole space a little bit, to listen to what those who apply that law tell you and to apply it or in that sense make an amendment to the law. But reality is one thing, what the law says is another, and the explanation is something quite third. The situation we have in Croatia at the moment is next. We have a need, we have a very big swing in the building which is good, the building usually feels recession first and, fortunately, first feels the exit from any kind of recession not only in Croatia but also wider. Kids who finish architecture or construction today get jobs right away. So there's no need to pack suitcases and go anywhere outside, they get a job right away, it's a need for highly educated and middle-educated staff, it's also necessary for professional staff. We no longer have an army in Croatia, no carpenters, no good roofers at all. So there's the problem. When I ask my colleagues who have construction firms if they're busy, they say they've got all the work you want, the charge's great, but we don't get them, and we're not sure we'll all come to work on Monday. Likewise, let's see what real life says. For large projects, for major procedures happening in Croatia, we have a problem because Croatian construction firms can no longer be competitive. They can't be competitive anymore, and that's the problem. And in that sense, any relief from regulations in which you will allow the domestic construction sector to be more competitive, to be more clearly welcome. But what do we do, or what does the Proposer do in this Law? I'm one of the ones I said after being in the executive office, that what comes from the Ministry where I've worked for years will always be an affirmative effort. That's what my colleagues do, and somehow I'd feel bad if I talked bad about the whole story. But in this Law, it happens next. When the Law was made, then Croatia had already entered the EU and the situation we had was the following. I'm talking first and foremost about our projector. Our designers had the following situation, they had to design the bits of the chamber members, behind which the stamps they had were not related to their name and name but to the company in which they worked and the third thing, were to be professionally perfected, had a certain number of points and then there was even one provision if a certain number of years did not collect a sufficient number of points, that it was then the idea to go back to the professional exam. It's like someone decides you're doing a bad job, so you have to get another degree. And we, in order to make it easier not to be a stepmother to people, is the ministry, I'm not going to tell me, but the Ministry has actually suggested that it's still a commitment to professional training, that it's a bonus when you apply somewhere so when you report to the competition, it's an additional value to you, but it's not an obligation. For what reason? For reasons of coming to you from other EU countries, it will not all have as a commitment and will be more competitive. In an explanation that we had the opportunity to hear it said that the conclusion was that we were going back to professional training and that the score was mandatory. Let's see the situation we've got. You've got a situation where you're going to get someone who's an education in neighbouring countries, not to mention, yesterday I mentioned enough one neighboring country, and I won't go any further. But let's just say, no matter what, in Poland, you only have 6-7 technical colleges in one Duchy where children graduate from colleges and where they have no obligations that our projectors have. They will appear here, they will be more competitive and get a job because in the price of our designer you will also have to calculate professional training that is not free but cost. So by returning professional training in a way that is mandatory, you introduce an additional item into the price of designing because anyone who is mandatory costs it. We had a chance to see everything. We had opportunities, I had opportunities to see when new ceramic tiles came into the market that it was a subject of professional training, the architects went to watch these ceramic tiles, got 3 points, and they had to pay for something, of course. And if this is at this point the choice and direction of the Republic of Croatia that it is much more important to be a stepmother to our own, and to be much more tempting to everyone else in the environment, it should be made clear because we are a stepmother to our people. I just, uh, sittin' here, I know people do, so not everything, we're not exactly common practice. Art. 39.v. 2. is amended and said, if in the country from which the authorised person is coming from, it is now said what he is doing, the application shall be accompanied by evidence that the applicant has worked in full or incomplete working hours of the same duration for at least a year in the last 10 years in the Member State from which the profession is not regulated. This means, on the one hand you can come to work someone who has confirmed that in the last 10 years they have been doing this job, and on the other hand someone who works in the Republic of Croatia after completing the university must have a professional exam, must be a member of the chamber and must also be confirmed by the chamber that he has professional training, a certain number of points that cost. Figure out who's gonna be cheaper. I want you to figure out who's going to be more suitable. I don't need to tell you who's gonna be there. And the subject of professional training was excellent work in the Republic of Croatia. They dealt with various companies, various and diverse companies with professional training because it was an excellent and secure job. If we want to, if we have such a country policy that we want everyone to work outside of us, to be their stepmom, then we have to make that clear, and that means we need to be clearly and articulated. Equally, the tendency of us to always take a step back, to go back to something old, to go back to something old because at that moment someone had promised someone or needed something, it's just not good. So, I repeat, every law has its own life. If, in the life of one law, we conclude that something is wrong, change. If in the life of a law we find out that we've been preortodox somewhere, because you know when we're orthodox, when we're insecure, when we don't know what to do, then we make a hell of a lot of fences, and then we use all the energy to skip those fences. If that's the case, I don't mind, but when we go back to the way things were, when we know it wasn't good, when we know what it turned into, when we know what it was for our companies, for our designers, the question is why we're going back to the old ones. Just because in a moment, one moment it suits someone. But let's be fully aware of the facts. We are in a situation that the domestic market, domestic projectors will be on the market, will not be competitors to those who are coming without talking about the fact that everyone would be happy to see our competitors competing on the foreign market. So what you think is that a job, a huge job, an excellent private company, 3hld, would have been given to China if we had set it up a mountain of restrictions, so a large hotel complex in China, that is, is designed by a domestic design company that is an excellent company, which has done excellent things in Croatia, is no wonder. But we automatically close the doors of a small yard and say, when you go out, you'll come up with a bunch of them, not to say that we have the law, we have countries where, after you've finished college, you don't even need a professional exam. By the way, I've always advocated a professional exam, and I'm saying that it's professionally perfected, but that should be an advantage for you when you're making a deal. When someone goes to build, or design a hotel, an advantage should be given to one who has, in his reference, a projecter, previously, one or two or three hotels, and there is no advantage for one who has formal points, which is essentially not. And I come, here at the end, to the theme of landscape architects. My people, we just need to know what we want, do we want to teach kids who are going to go to colleges, teach them for some other countries, say for the Netherlands. So we're going to study in Croatia, we're going to pay for their education, and then they're going to go behind it to work in the Netherlands, and there, of course, they're going to get a bigger salary, because from the budget, no one's been lying in them, getting finished people, these people are educated, when you look at, at all, how they're educated, there's a series of things. So, landscape architects were a special section in the chamber of architects, they really can't do projects that are part of projects for building permits, but they can do what they're trained to do. By this law, the clear message is, landscape architects, we don't need you. The fact that you are educated, that you have knowledge, that you have experience, that you try to use it in another EU country, that we do not need you in Croatia, therefore, we just need to know what we want. We can clearly say, no more landscape architecture studies, no more shipbuilding studies, no more studies, because don't let us train people we won't be able to hire in Croatia. It's just crazy. So, on the one hand, we have those educated, so we're going to bring them a score, someone else who won't have it, they're going to say, they're going to be more concrete in the beginning, on the other hand, we all swear on education reform, let's go educate people, who are going to work somewhere else. It's just not good. That consequence, we see today, and the result will be even bigger next year and very soon. There are some consequences of wrong decisions taking time, it takes 5 or 10 years. For the result of this decision you see immediately, you see quickly. Therefore, we at the GLAS and HSU Club cannot support these amendments and amendments to the law. As I was saying earlier, I always try, that what comes from the ministry where I've worked for years, somehow I look at each other's eyes, I look at what's good, but things you can't support, you can't support. I can't support the fact that we're becoming a stepmother to people who are trained here, who work here, and that we impose new obligations on them, and all under some kind of administrative burden. No matter what burden it is, if you add them a new score, if you add a new story and if it costs. So I absolutely can't accept it, and even less, equally, or even less, I can accept it, so that we can give up individual titles, individual education, individual people, because we don't need it. Well, at some point, we won't need anyone, and it's just gonna be a question of who's gonna be the last one to turn off the light. We don't want any part of this. We in the Voice don't want to participate, every debate we have is constructive, so it will be. In this law are 2 basic problems, one problem is professional training, which becomes a commitment, which we had and proved to be bad, other problems are landscape architects. These other things, we can discuss a little bit, whether we do it one way or the other, but this is the problem and it's just a question, this is another one in a series of laws, where we actually talk one thing, and the other we do, and in reality, the results of such wrong decisions will be seen immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92854	Thank you. Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives, respected counterpart Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92855	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, we're not. I'm a little darker. [[Invader President: It is the county, Bjelovarska bilogorska County.]] Thank you, thank you, Fred, for you in particular, this law regulates the performance of tasks in the capacity of responsible persons under the task of profession, architectural, construction and engineering and electrical engineering, the obligation to conduct professional examinations, responsible persons in spatial planning and installation, professional training, and the conditions for foreign persons performing cases in the Republic of Croatia. Just about what my colleague Mrak Taritash exhibited before me, and I will also, on the same track, refer, of course, to the cover of administrative discharge and introduce a new charge, i.e., the old one returns in terms of collecting points for authorized engineers. I can from personal experience confirm that this practice was essentially not good at all. The collection of points, definitely increases the price of the service itself, if the service to our architects is more expensive, and in this way we open space so that everyone from the EU can come and work in Croatia, we definitely put all our authorised engineers in an unfavourable position. Also, when we talk about professional training itself, I can say that there were even good lectures in which these points were collected, but there were definitely those lectures where some new construction products were done and promotions were made, and authorized engineers had to pay for it and thus collected points. Also authorised engineers from smaller towns mean they also have the cost of going to these lectures in Zagreb, Split or elsewhere. It is not the same if you are from Zagreb and go to this collection of points, while let's say someone from Daruvar, Đakova, Metkovic or where they also have to travel and lose their working hours to go listen to these lectures. So other than putting in our own authorised engineers in an unfavourable position, we also collect the service itself and, of course, those who will pay for the service, not that they are authorized engineers, but they are users who need their services. Also in this bill immediately at the outset of colleagues, the problem has been detected because, in essence, landscape architects are being abolished, and I don't understand how we're going to cover this area that these people have covered through their education and work, and I'm just going to, just wondering why they're becoming the problem, I think the 120 members of this chamber that are going to stay in some way and unprotected, and I'm wondering which way is actually going to cover that part? The argument that elaborate is not a project so they can't be in the chamber I don't think it's simple because we can lead to a project, that some part of the project is declared an elaborate, so what happens to the whole class of the chamber? I think the whole point has been missed and this law also needs to be improved significantly by second reading because unless this happens, the SDP club will ultimately not support this law. Also here, since it is a matter of harmonisation with EU directives, and this law was passed in 2015, we see that there are directives that are significantly older and are not harmonised and I am sincerely curious why this has not happened before in the meantime? Here's why everything said in the first reading, the SDP club will be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92856	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the debates in the clubs. Now we're going to individual debates, the first respected colleague, Davor Lonchar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92857	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This law aims to address and improve the situation so far in the activities of spatial planning and project management supervision as the basis for implementing planned projects that are in line with the spatial plans that are in place and the redundancies of administrative barriers and to regulate the solutions with which construction works are carried out. Each participant must meet the legally prescribed expertise which will be demonstrated by the following operational performances. The law of all actors in planning and building wants to know who is and why they are responsible, which they must respect because they all require measures and provisions of the spatial plan. In order to carry out all of this professionally, it is necessary that personnel who must pass the training path in order to obtain the power to work under their jurisdiction are able to do so. Furthermore, this proposal is well-warned that responsibility and obligation begin from investors of performers of various appointments, all for the legitimate quality of construction and preparation of planned projects. As regards the heavy shops in which the tests are included in the materials and the quality of the installation are also stressed by this proposal as a need with a very good... for all participants of the planned operations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also visible in this proposal that each profession is finally in charge of its own duty which has not been done so far. The regulation adopted by the minister allows for less complex transactions to be given to both legal and natural persons who have issued trades for it regardless of what this bill says. I have a need to stress and point out because all of this is closely related to each other, and these are so many piles of consent to the terms of the public legal body that are repeated several times when it comes to designing. I therefore propose that all previously issued conditions be respected for designing from spatial plans, and all in order to obtain building acts faster, and ultimately faster start of the construction sought by the investor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92858	We're going to another individual debate. Dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar. He's gone, so he's losing his right to speak. Last individual debate, dear colleague Željko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92859	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. A good part of the remarks I wanted to make were already made in previous club discussions. I was also approached by representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Engineers and a whole series of builders who pointed to 3 questions that this first reading did not solve well, and therefore I call on the competent ministry to go through the second reading again with all these remarks that have been delivered, to look and the answers they have offered with the refusal of the proposal of the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Construction, which concerns three basic questions. It is a matter of professional training as obligations and additional burdens that go with it. I am a doctor and we have to perfect ourselves, I think that it is really necessary for architects and engineers to continuously complete and perfect their knowledge, monitor the development of technical regulation and after a professional examination, however, it should be regulated in one quality way so that this is not an additional imposition which, according to the budgets of some fellow building engineers, amounts to more than 2,000 kuna. So I think we need to find ways so that this would not be an additional imposition and not actually serve for some other purposes, but for professional training. Of course, I also don't understand the many objections that have come to me and it concerns the abolition of landscape architects by asking the Ministry to reconsider that. And of course, what the Chamber of Engineers has also pointed out, especially in its debate, concerns the problems of project leaders, the newly decorated functions in the construction proposed by the Ministry of Construction, and I ask that the area also once again pass along with the chamber and find the best quality and best solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92860	And finally, on behalf of the motionary, once again, Secretary of State Uhlir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92861	Thank you very much. I thank all those who participated in the debate with their proposals, their remarks. We will, of course, try to look at everything again, which is why this two-reading instrument serves, but the wrong examples used to justify something that training in the profession can't be well-intentioned, especially for those who have had a profession. So we're all aware that the waist is going back, that there's no trace of what's going on, especially in the normative work, and that's why we're having trouble with both spatial plans and construction. Also the issue of excluding landscape architects. It's completely wrong to rule out, no one rules out, it's just that everyone sits in place and prevents the mess that's been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92862	This is what we came to the end of the debate and I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction, first reading, P.Z.E. No. In 398, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 for, 17 abstentions and 28 against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92865	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the honourable MPs and MPs. You have before you a draft proposal for the Island Act. The Republic of Finland is the only country in Europe that has been constitutionally taking care of its islands for almost 20 years, which has been legally governed by a special law, hence the Law on Islands adopted in 1999. The development of the island community since '90. To date, the development of new strategic orientations, objectives and priorities has led to the conclusion that the current legal framework governing island development contained in the provisions of the existing island law does not allow satisfactory solutions to certain problems facing the islands today. Meanwhile, the Republic of Croatia has also become a member of the EU whose fundamental objectives are one of the fundamental objectives, i.e. one of the foundations is cohesion policy which is, above all, considering balanced regional development. The development policy towards islands has also been intensified in recent years, resulting in a European Parliament resolution on the island's special situation in 2016. As a country with over 1200 islands, islets and cliffs need to catch up with time and adapt legislation to these development needs and trends and thus seek to take care of their islands, island development, island population and actively and effectively participate in all processes of their further development and progress. Therefore, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds also joined the creation of a new Law on Islands with the intention of strengthening and introducing modern mechanisms and new solutions for... island development in line with the general objectives of the Republic of Croatia's policy and the relevant EU policies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the new island law is a framework for establishing a new island development policy, a regional policy for directing island development. It manages the development of Croatian islands, defines the island development policy, determines the authorities responsible for the management of island development, defines the island's grouping and evaluation of island development, and implements the reporting on the implementation of the island development policy, for the effective use of funds and the state budget, as well as EU structural and investment funds. So it is a set of concrete measures that will contribute to the demographic, economic revitalisation of Croatian islands. The new island law respects all existing island development measures and acquires the rights of the island's population, prescribed by the 1999 law, and also improves, modernises, upgrades, adapts to the needs of the island and island development, the island population. The measures so far, as you probably know, included investments in transport, municipal and social infrastructure, subsidisation of the maritime link between the island and the island, subsidisation of island public transport, I mean road transport, water supply subsidisation, support to island employers, support to associations, and hence, from these measures, are being improved in this proposal for water supply subsidisation because this will therefore be subsidized to island employers, and the support measures for island employers are also being improved. Therefore, the main objective of the new island law is to coordinate and increase the coherence of island development policy with national and European policies and legislation, strengthen and introduce new mechanisms and solutions to promote island development policy and define the island as areas with developmental specificities and a special situation. This strengthens the involvement of all stakeholders of the island's development policy, especially those at local level, so when it comes to adoption and... politics... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the development of the island. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what is important is also to note that this draft law included a wide range of stakeholders, a participatory method, so in a working group consisting of representatives, both local and regional island governments, state and public authorities, public bodies of the academic community, civil society organisations from the island area, so a broad group of people participated. What is also important to emphasise is that the provisions of the new law include practically all proposals for topics, measures, activities proposed by members of the working group, members of the island council, the island community and the Croatian public through even two e-consultations and resulting in the regulation of the following new measures. I'll count them now. Therefore, the new law introduces the notion of ethicity, and the new law is one of the essential objectives of the construction of catasters and land books, better management, i.e. the removal of waste from the island, and the exploitation of mineral raw materials in islands in one different way, allowing for the possibility of signing an island development agreement. So it moves similarly, so as they think about it in the EU, so in the sustainable development of the island by the concept of smart islands, taking advantage of everything possible, we'll say it both smarter, more inclusive and more successful so technology, methods and ways, the use of renewable energy sources, new technologies, more rational use of all resources, etc. So what's very important is the new island sorting model. It is also a new approach in the development, i.e. the development of the island through island development indicators. A new approach is also being introduced in the strategic planning of island development and island co-ordinators are being introduced as individuals who will be part of public institutions, regional development agencies and where they will deal in particular with, therefore, the coordination of all those projects, project proposals, i.e. ideas and strategic orientations of the island. The useful function of the island card will also be expanded, so it has proved very good. It has been seen in recent years, and it is indeed a problem that is unfortunately spreading and I would say a stir, which is therefore the problem of savages and invasive foreign species on the islands, so whose management is planned to be partially resolved by this new law. Of course, it wants to encourage even more the development of civil society, cooperative society and social entrepreneurship on the islands as, of course, one of the forms necessary on the islands. Therefore, by looking at the improvement of existing measures which were not limited and the introduction of the new measures mentioned in the law, the aim is to achieve targeted management of island policy and sustainable development through raising the quality and living conditions of islands with the availability of services that are adapted to today's time and needs of the population, and then demographic and economic revitalisation, as well as only sustainability and sufficientness on the principles of the smart island. Therefore, for the implementation of this law in 2019, 195 million kuna is planned to be provided in the Republic of Croatia's budget, from which the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds will provide 94 million kuna and the remaining amount, i.e. the rest will be provided in the budgets, i.e.... The Ministry of Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, or the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you very much for this opening presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92866	Now let's go to the replicas. First up, buddy Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92867	Thank you very much, President. I'm sorry she's not here and she's supposed to be a minister who has catastrophic results in... But she's dealing with whether or not Marko Perkovic-Thompson is going to sing at a protest in Vukovar and to problem it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this is the Island Law where you are absolutely no tangible person, something tangible about islands, but we do have, not that young people will not want to live on islands. It's if you don't give clear measures to this law. For a trip to school, a trip, an emergency solution for the elderly, the young won't live one day on the island, this is P.R. The pamphlet you sent or no measure here, only in the municipality. You will spend more money on the PR and you have spent on this law than you have given the measures, islands and islanders, and we can testify to both the shipping lines and everything you've solved here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92868	Would you like to respond to the replica? No, I don't. Let's go to the other one. Dear colleague of the Grmoys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92869	Obviously there's no answer because my colleague Bully told the truth. What is particularly in the eyes is the introduction of a new bureaucracy in creating local island policies, so this is about these island coordinators you mentioned. So it's essentially new employment in the public administration and additional costs without a concrete objective or expected impact. I think ultimately this whole island co-ordinator thing is an impertinent attempt to compensate for the lack of ambition and courage for the reform of the territorial structure in the country and in the islands. So this shows from what you're proposing here, means new employment, the islanders will have nothing and there will be one lack of both visions and courage in this ministry, but also in the ministry of the administration we saw one last night by Minister Kustević in the open air. So no, this government has no ambition for any kind of reform and this isn't going to help the islanders.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92870	Here you go, Comrade Zhunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92871	Thank you, Your Honor. So it's not true that it's a new job, I've already said that about the opening statement. It is therefore about persons who are already employed or will be employed by regional development agencies, so they are already employed above all. ... So, which simply one part of their working time will devote a little more coordination of projects that come from the island area because we are aware that they therefore do not have enough human capacity to do so. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And as far as I'm concerned, I'm just going to refer very briefly to Mr. Bulj's first question, so all the existing measures that are being carried out during...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92872	No, colleague Žunac, you can't now, you have to answer to that, then you could and now you're answering your colleagues to Grumoji, so please let the representatives of the government take care of it. Let's move on. Dear colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92873	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, unfortunately of all these measures, our people living on islands feel nothing and see nothing, and the result is that people are leaving. So, the fact is, people are leaving us. You offer us some cosmetic measures, island coordinators, and introduce new concepts of islandhood, as if the concept of islandism would keep people on the islands. Well, the people on the islands remain very rare, perhaps just here, like our representatives who then have their own, as they would say, areas of action, not bad, etc., and people who need a job they're running from the island. So, Boric, Bačić is beautiful on the islands. Yeah, it's not that bad. But for the people who are supposed to create their own family there, it's not good for them. They want to leave. On that side, create conditions for people. That's what we're asking of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92874	Thank you. Would you like to respond? Here you go, Comrade Zhunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92875	Thank you very much. So, according to current data, the population on the island is not shrinking, but, in fact, it is not happening. The depopulation is present, but trends are different than they were precisely thanks to the fact that this law has been implemented for almost 20 years and what it means, it also says people living on islands, so who are participants, so they live on these remote parts of the land, at sea, and they know very well that things are really moving. Of course, one law cannot solve everything, but new measures, new efforts, new means, are really not small amounts. Every year that is directed and co-financed, i.e. free crossing of ferry to public transport, road transport, maritime transport Okay. [[Intruder Jandroković: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92876	We now have two requests for a break. He's the first fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92877	Thank you very much. On behalf of the MOST Club, I demand a 10 minute break to consult because we are talking about this serious law, the Law on our islands where many unresolved issues are, and this law does not even mention measures other than what I said, which is more paid for the PR to promote this law than the Minister has put a measure into this. I'd say briefly, briefly, here's the proof that it's being promoted and paid. I'd just like to say for a little while that it's amazing for me, and we're gonna have to consult at the club. Which is why the secretary of this important law isn't here in the Parliament. Is she really more concerned, and she runs an important portfolio, she deals with Thompson, that Marko Perković Thompson will sing in Vukovar, a party problem than the Island Act we are now discussing, and then the mountain-mounted areas, and means assisted areas where she has brought us a list of pamphlets with no content other than any listings and new versions, vocabularys, words that vocabulary raise to a higher level in this House. It is a pity that on Pag, as long as it is held to the island, on Pag where people grow sheep and produce far-known Pag cheese, where our Plenkovići... While in Brussels, boasting about these cheeses, they are now working on an unclassified waste transport station exactly where sheep, where sheep are kept, where sheep are engaged, and in this area by the sea their places are building there, and many OPGs have also received EU funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're targeting the Pag brand of Pag cheese and people on the islands. So you say to those people, "Get out of here." So how will our tourism live? Will you brag about the pasha cheese and that... which you pay in the media [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and the Minister, and she's not here today [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder Jandroković: colleague Bulj, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92878	I'm approving a 10-minute break. Here's a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92879	Thank you very much. My fellow president, I'm looking for a break to consult also on the Island Law because we can see that there's no desire for government to help islands any more than here, the Secretary of State says that these trends are a depopulation, but they're not like before. If it was a depopulation before and now it's a depopulation, how is it not the same? I think the difference would be that people settle on islands, that people want to live there, that people get a better perspective. In the meantime, we learned another scandalous situation, which is that the government has been reluctantly this last 3 weeks since the school year started it forgot about the 8182 families the poorest in the Republic and did not allow a decision that was made last year a month and a half earlier that these people would get money for their textbooks. Here's the HNS, here's how much they take care of the children, on the islands too. That's what they're very interested in. So 8182 families are already going to school in the Republic of Croatia, their children, and the money that was planned because of the trombone, the incompetence of the minister is not realised and people have no money to buy their children textbooks. Well, aren't you ashamed to treat our citizens that way, aren't you ashamed to neglect those who are the poorest in the Republic of Croatia, but you're dealing with curricula, informational sciences like foll, algebra,... From Varazdin where the minister comes from, it's on your mind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not children or those who need help in mind, and that's what we need to talk about here, and that's why we're looking for a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92880	I approve of the break. So we'll continue at 10.45 hours. [[It's 10:00.35.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.45 HOURS]] Continued with the work, we have, further replicas, respected fellow Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92882	I am sorry that the Minister of Regional Development of EU Funds is not here today, that he is actually talking about 3 important laws, the Law on Islands, the Law on Supported Areas and the Law on mountainous areas. But this law objectively, if we look at concrete legal provisions, most often it is political declarations, not legal norms. As much as you care about the island, it says that you had a conference for the development of the island, but, however, she was not pictured on the island, she was at the Millennium Hotel in Opatija. You care so much about the island, that you didn't, you organized a conference for the islands, which says, only investments, can ensure employment and better life on the islands. I also have to tell you that from one place to Zigljen do from the mainland, the Kotar-Zigljan 113 kn cost a ticket for the ordinary citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and the highway from Zagreb to Split costs 200 kn. It's €113 in one direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92883	Time, thank you. Would you like to respond? No, I don't. Let's move on then, dear colleague Kirin, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92884	Dear President-in-Office of the Assembly, the Secretary of State, the goal of the island's development is sustainable development, which assumes stable economic development of the island, a fair distribution of social opportunities for all islanders, protection of the island's environment. What do you think of the development and revitalisation of island farming, is there a shift besides the apartmentisation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92885	Answer, please. Then let's go to the sixth line, dear colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92886	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished representatives of the ministry. We have before us a Law on Islands, which certainly brings a lot of good things, so of course it is essential for sustainable life on the islands to be a quality education, quality health care, I hope that these legal proposals will be resolved. There are some problems that perhaps, on the first wave, people who don't live on islands don't seem great. However, when it comes to a specific area from which I come from Primorje Mountain County, one of the burning problems for a long time, concerns indigenous and aloctone savages and inhabitants of Krk, residents of Cres, Lošinj, together with all the praises of the Island Act, believe that this part, concerning alochton, the indigenous invasive game is not well solved. And we urge that until the second reading, once again sit with representatives of these islands and that this problem be solved in a much better way, e.g. There are five times as many wild pigs on Cres as sheep, I think that's enough indicator, that this mixture in this law is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92887	Comrade Jovanovic, thank you. Would you like to respond? Let's go to the 7th line, dear colleague of the Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92888	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This law mentions something that sounds so good and it's smart islands. Even once a provision is defined as what it is. For the first time we've heard of smart cities or smart city smart city and it's all in their own kind of documents, and then when we look at it, which cities have, then it's very hard to say. So obviously under some EU aspirations, we have a smart island theme for all of these smart ones all of a sudden. And now the question at all is how ready we are for it, how ready we are for that way of managing, how ready we are to connect certain islands. So I am interested in the context of what talks were at EU level, and what step further behind this provision on smart islands that stand in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92889	If there's no answer, then we've exhausted the replicas, and now we're going to see if the committee reporter will take the floor? If not, I am opening the debate, first in line is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, respected counterpart Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92890	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. I don't know how to start. Since I am not first surprised with the level at which the parliamentary deputies actually started to discuss this subject, but I am a little disappointed with the fact that it is a really good subject, the island has us both in opposition and in power, there are us in the assembly, there is a diameter from one island, and it really wanted to be given to that area that has a small country in Europe in this kind of scale, such as the Republic of Croatia has one meaning, a different approach, and it has offered a law that is discussed in the first reading and second reading, there can certainly be a change, which we will hear today in the debate, but in particular, clearly spoken with proposals, so that this could be discussed, not at the level of the description of the problem observed, but also the solution to one such problem. But solutions that are sustainable that can really help, which are not a waste of money, which has its basis in some kind of documents. So, when I heard all this, I decided to expand my debate, first to get acquainted with the efforts of the state, but also with the islanders themselves, long ago, to organize life on their prosthetics, with some laws, statutes, long ago in the history of the 13th and 14th century. The 1332 Creski Statute from 1326 Korčulan in 1214, Lastovski in 1310 or Krčka in 1388, means 13, 14th century people try to organize life within their communities and settlements according to the rules. What is the Law of the Islands? Also, a series of rules to make life easier for islanders, to compensate for the cost or barrier created by the sea between two lands, and to survive life with the help of the country in the area. And that's why, I say, I was surprised by this level of negativity at the very beginning that came down to one surface, so that I don't say worse and the banality that some have disturbed for some I don't know what reasons. In 1997, 28.2. ... A national programme for the development of Croatian islands has been adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of the people, the professional people then signed by the minister of the then, today the late Jure Radic, minister of development and reconstruction. From this document I will read only 2.3 sections to realize that they have already clearly laid the foundations of politics according to once, I say, the field of specificity in the Republic of Croatia. The modern national renaissance in the restoration, construction and development of Croatia understands and a complete turn in relation to the island's development. In this context, this national development programme of the island was prepared, based in the Constitution, under which islands have special protection of the Republic of Croatia. Its intention is to establish and clearly define the tasks that the state will carry out or direct organised and persistently to develop the island, survive and return households to them and economic experiences. Maintaining life, fostering demographic rebirth and economic progress, while maintaining the harmony of unsurpassed natural values are tasks that tend to achieve this programme. This can be achieved with small, I stress, but lasting well-organised and long-term investment. The islands are looking for small ones to return to the people's economy soon. This was written in 1997 in the National Development Programme of the Island, this Parliament adopted this document and this may be one of the best documents that Croatian politicians have brought to this House in recent Croatian history. And so, I say again, disappointed me with the way we started discussing the islands, and I'm going to tell us at Kvarner about Bodulski Law, which contains a series of measures that have been implemented since '99. until yesterday and today and tomorrow and a series of new measures that need this space now organised with the tools and means available to us to make even better progress. And that is why I repeat again, I think it is time for us to go a little different on this subject than we did this morning because history has shown that the Croatian Republic and all governments are leading an organised and elaborate policy towards Croatian islands so far. There were better ministers and worse ministers, there were better officials and worse ones, but politics remained, all programmes from the beginning of 2000, so there from the SDP government, and later all governments survived to this day within the state budget and the islanders gave help that enabled them to function normally on their island. So I'm saying, if someone didn't have a share in it, they don't have to feel offended, but let them give or let them today, in this debate, concrete solutions, not descriptions, but concrete solutions that can complement such a legislative proposal. It is clear that we are aware of the deficit we have on the islands, which is that we are separated from the land, that fact itself creates an additional cost. Every crossing from the island to the mainland, if it's not a bridge, if it's a ferry, if it's a ship, it costs and the fact is that on the islands life is less expensive than on land. But the Republic of Croatia has come to this problem organised. Croatian shipowner, Jadrolinija is assisted annually with funds that allow islanders to have their own separate tariff within the price list and all cost-price stories can always be discussed, but we offer a solution. If the state needs to pay for it, then tell the state to pay extra to make it cheaper for the islanders, but someone still has to pay for it. It seemed like an effort, personally I know how hard we've worked to preserve life first and organize it on big islands. It is now time for small, less-inhabited islands to get their space within Croatian politics, policies towards islands, and for the state to invest a large part of the funds. This law through the new division of the island that we were looking for when we discussed here, and we discuss reports every year, the effects of the Island Law, that a different division of which we have so far happened. We had a legal division on the first and second groups of islands. Now this division is further expanding into several categories so that these small islands, less populated, such as Žirije, Kaprije, Zlarin, Union, Susak, Premuda, Silba, Olib, which consisted of larger administrative environments on the island or on land, are given space within the state's resources so that more meaningful lives of islanders can be organised on them. And this year we will discuss the law, i.e. Report on the effects of the law in 2017 which we discussed the day before yesterday on the island council. These billions and 700 million kunas invested in Croatian islands last year are not insignificant funds. It certainly contributes to the survival of life and the organization of life on the islands. When they wrote this program that we needed to invest a little bit, but that these investments would be returning to the state at some point, we came at that time. Just the fact that we have 4074 accommodation units on the islands, which makes up 1/3 of total accommodation units in the Republic of Croatia, that we have 3.3 million arrivals per year for foreigners and domestic tourists on the islands. That they make 26 million overnights. We're saying that only from VAT at the sole night in the state budget can it be returned annually to up to a billion kuna. Just from one segment of tourism, we're not talking about food, other services offered in tourism, nauticalism and everything else. So that's one space that can now return invested in his development and survival of life. What have we had in the island law so far, and what remains? We had a water supply subsidy for every household that on the island was not connected to the water supply because small islands do not particularly have sub-sea pipelines and are not connected to the waterway, for example, from land or inside the island space. They are charged by the State. Subsidized the price to that level to cost them the same as all citizens on land. Ten to 12 million kunas are spent on this yearly. In 2003, road transport i.e. Subsidisation of road transport where students, students, pensioners on islands are particularly large to the first stop on land driving free of charge. The measure costs between 30 million and 35 million kuna annually. These aren't insignificant means. Our children have been driving around the islands for free for 18 years. It has recently started in a wider area of the Republic of Croatia and we know how much help it is. We introduced support for employers, support for small-value 2006 300 000 euros for employers in 3 years, pardon 2 years. This is something employers use and cost the state 10 million kuna per year. Subsidy maritime transport, we had 350 to 400 million kuna per year. These are the funds that make up for us, Jadrolinia and private boaters, the price difference. Today, pensioners, children, catamarans, means students who go to the centre of the county for schooling, high school education, pay nothing. Someone's got to pay for it. That's what the state pays for. When we talk about other measures, it's investment in infrastructure. We had loans that had built hundreds of good facilities, schools on every island, sports halls, health homes, larger infirmarys on smaller islands, homes for older people, water supply, draining, hundreds of arranged ports for transport, ferry berths, boats so that someone today, I say here so casually, would undo some of their files to make themselves smart and important. It's an effort that the state is making and it's not meaningless. What does the new law offer? It offers a supplement to keep these measures but to further introduce what we want, a story about smart islands. It tells us that we use technology, but above all, to use knowledge and European funds. Special operational programme in preparation for Croatian islands with other rules. The islands are now in one group of development with all 51 local self-government. They have a smaller right to co-financing and are very difficult to pass in all competitions that are being debated. But a special operational program will allow us to only use certain means according to different rules. What else do we get? As part of the waste management policy, waste will be transported to the mainland from all islands. There are no more dumps on the islands, loading stations are being built, recycling courtyards, sortery and all waste dumps have to be recovered for the next few years. That's what it costs. And that's what the state wants to pay. The transportation from Rab to a waste management centre costs Marinsc a lot of money. The state is ready to co-finance 50% of that. Is that a bad measure? That's a good measure. We have a measure of finally allowing mineral raw materials to be exploited on the islands, why? Let us take the prices of concrete in Zagreb and the prices of concrete on the island. The difference is 100%. 550 kuna in Zagreb, 1100 kuna on the island, every big island in the course of the largest investment cycle in tourism. We drive the same thing from the mainland twice as expensive, if we have something, we have mineral raw materials on the islands. And a number of other measures that I'm saying, they strongly assure us that this is a good proposal, the HDZ Club will support it and will contribute some more changes to the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92891	Thank you. We're going to another club of representatives, it's GLAS and HSU, a respected colleague of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92892	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the honourable secretary of state with an associate. Here is the proposal for a Law on Islands. We received 3 laws from the government, one law is on islands, one on assisted areas, one on mountainous and mountainous areas, both in order and in debate. When I did a little list of those laws, the first thing that occurred to me, that's when the prime minister of his ministers heard what we had on the eve of the summer break said, you have to work, you have to have a set of laws, so now we've got three laws that can all be characterized by one fact, they're written in a way that's better to be young and rich than old and poor. Well, there's only a list of good wishes in there. Before we start a little bit about this law, at this point in the Republic of Croatia is the largest island of Slavonia. However, this will likely be discussed elsewhere. And this law has something good. Since we have 602 hundred islands that are attached to this Law, we have them well numbered, so those who will need to see where the one is located in which county, in which municipality or in which city, we will have opportunities to see it. There is no step forward, there is no way forward as long as we experience that islands are cost, and as long as we treat islands as cost, and not that islands can be added value, that islands can earn, that all the cost that's at one start of the cost, eventually will be, will bring profit. Once, when I was in some kind of education up in northern Europe, so in northern Germany, then there was a debate about islands, and then I was, of course, influenced by everything that she said in the Republic of Croatia, so it's hard, so it's supposed to be subsidized, then they said, you're not going to do anything while you're thinking about islands like that. Every investment in the island will come back to you. Every investment in the island is value added and that's the way to think. And I didn't happen to ask the secretary of state what smart islands mean. So, what Europe and some other things are going forward,... means that they are partially self-sustainable, that it is necessary to see what the potential of the island is, that it should be seen in which part of it can be connected and this should be developed in the provisions of this Act, but what is incomparably more important, this should be applied. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a series of laws that are good, but they're often a wish list, and then when we come into real life, then in real life you see that it's a little different and it's not like that. Thus, this Law in that part is relatively simple. There are some things being said, we from some of the other things that we get in the debate in this House can see what has really been done and done. But what you have to do, you have to make a step. Steps are not exclusively administrative, steps must be real. I may refer to, fellow Boric here when he came is everyone who thinks differently, I don't know, can't think differently. Well, people should think differently. If we all thought the same thing, there's no progress. You should think differently, and that's why progress has been since you were human. There is one provision that when it comes to the exploitation of mineral raw materials where he said it was extremely good. You haven't solved anything if you wanted to enable further exploitation on the islands. It says here that the exploitation of mineral raw materials can be consistent with the spatial plan. And the spatial plans are defined where and how they can, if you want to pave the islands, which I'm not sure you want because then we don't have an island anymore, so we're all straight. In accordance with spatial plans before and today, so since 2004, you can have on the island the exploitation needed for the needs of this island to build the island. If they're additional construction, then it's a question of whether there could be additional exploitation. I had opportunities in my working life to participate in an environmental impact assessment that was on the island of Lastovo. It's our farthest island. So that's them... The islands where the investor came from, and when was that impact assessment? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's all I'm going to say in three sentences to tell you that we know what we're talking about. So, at one point Italy is significant before the Republic of Croatia has defined the exploitation of mineral raw materials in a different way. And they needed extra mineral raw materials. I'm not talking about quality mineral raw material, I'm talking about a non-quality one that works for road construction. And there was an investor on Lastovo who recognized that he could build a small cargo port there. There came a ferry, there was a hill nearby that might have pissed someone off and he'd exploit that hill, put a rock and drive Italy too. That environmental impact assessment was enough, I'll say, stressful and so very interesting and then we had only one provision in the law and we managed not to be, because it shouldn't have been. The owner can have exploitation for his own purposes. If there's a big building on an island, then you need to see if there's capacity on that island, that it doesn't disrupt value. What everyone who deals with tourism says next, when you develop tourism, when it develops, you develop at cultural values and at natural values. But then if you develop at the expense of natural values, you reduce the value of tourism. Equally, absolutely to invest in the islands. Absolutely make sure they're self-sustainable, absolutely to help the islands and experience that they'll come back to you. All that you're going to invest will go back through some other things, through life on islands, through tourism, through something else. Absolutely to help the island's self-sustainability. Absolutely to use all the methodologies that are methodologies that islands remain in their natural and cultural values are the same. So you should never go back to the old ones because that's impossible. You can't and life goes forward, but once the devastation is the devastation of space forever. I used to say that in my profession, make a bad house, someone likes it, someone doesn't like it. Wrongly planning the road, devasting the road space is a permanent devastation forever. The islands should therefore be considered as added value. And this country should see it as an extra value and invest in the islands, yes. But let's see what and like, let's see where we get it back. It's coming back and I can't agree with any of my colleagues, it's really islands, some islands are the only places in Zagreb in the Republic of Croatia where you don't have a population drop, but you have something to increase the population. Of course, not all islands are in the same situation, of course not to be looked at the same way, and of course every island should look at the part where it has certain characteristics. This Law can be reduced to some 30 articles because it is actually just a declarative nature. Behind that law go a number of other things to be and to be taken care of. We have been abstentioned on committees regarding this law, we will be abstentioned, and we will be in voting for the simple reason that when you do the regulation you must see what is new in that regulation, you do not do the regulation because you told the Prime Minister I want a certain number of regulations from every cabinet, and then here, then we will quickly agree on some law and move on. This law looks like it to me. It opens here in this law, let's say take this provision when it's exploited, says the exploitation in accordance with the spatial plan. Fairball. Space plans define how, the Law on Spatial Planning defines how it can be and there is no other story. When it comes to waste, so says the other regulations. Well, of course, some other regulations will be respected, but what needs to work, things need to work, regular waste from the island should be driven away, and there is another problem, which we rarely talk about. These are your unbalanced use of space. You have a relatively small number of inhabitants, so I'm saying, you have islands different and it's hard to even a common denominator to put and you have some needs there all year round, and you have some other needs, 3, God forbid 4 if we get close to 5 months of the year when you get a pixel, when you get a large number of tourists, when you have a different need for water, of course you have a different, different need for electricity and there comes this story of smart islands. I really like new technologies, and somehow you really need to see what else is in the environment, so I am the environment when it comes to the islands of the Mediterranean country, when you take the Mediterranean countries, then you can compare it with Greece, you can't compare with another country that doesn't have that problem. It is difficult to compare when it comes to the islands of Croatia with Norway because it is an absolutely different problem. what we have protection of the coastal lines... They don't know it at all in the north, they're pouring the sea, creating a certain new space, and it's over. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where we need to see what these countries are doing. And what the future needs, indeed, is not a declarative, only sustainability of the island, it should be a priority, energy sustainability. Because as I often say, climate change is a fact, and so are the fact that waste water is a problem, it's a basic problem of waste water and waste. The problem of course is that in the season, the island is much bigger than it is all year round and it needs to be done with increased energy and we need to be aware and in this part we need to focus our activities and our activities when it comes to islands. In a debate that was little through replicas, it will continue in the work. Life on the island isn't easy, it's not easy because all of us who come from the continent are looking at the islands in their most beautiful light, watching when summer is, when there's a lot of people, when we can come and we go. And the people on the islands stay all year long. I was at Visa for some counseling week and so Vis is a relatively large island, decently functioning, after a week I was told everything. So when you're on the island, to get to the mainland at all and to secure your elemental problems, and the elemental problem can be appendicitis. You really have a series of problems, and we know that, so it's really important to invest continuously, it's important to constantly take care of everything, that the state takes care of its islands, so that the state does its islands, so that the state doesn't stay on its islands, but to be a mother and to be finished, not only through the laws, but through all the measures and the rest, we see what the advantage of the island is? We talk all the time about all these things that are clearly a problem and are a problem, there are no secrets. But you can make that problem your advantage. I think that after 20 or more years, we have come into a situation where we try to see the islands as an advantage, in that sense we agree with regulations, but in that sense we also act on the ground. The rules can't be ideal, they can be quite well written, imagine how beautiful the provision is, what can I say to the provisions of the exploitation of mineral raw materials according to the spatial plan? I have nothing to say, I have nothing to say. Drive the car where the 70-hour limit is. It's all right. The only question is that there is no other hiding behind it, and there is no need to hide because if you start exploiting, I will end up a colleague, Boris, if you start exploiting mineral raw materials, then you will destroy the island. So she should always be as moderate as all the other things that need to be. And what the secretary of state didn't answer, which is when you talk at EU regional development level, you stand up for a smart city, for smart islands, see what measures they are, see what opportunities they are because it's one of the future of our islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92893	Thank you very much. We continue with colleague Sonja Cikotic, Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92894	My colleagues and colleagues, the respected representatives of the ministry. We have before us the Island Act, first reading. You've established the Department of the Islands with great announcements. All these costs, salaries and material expenses should be justified. And here he came to us in Parliament and the Law of the Islands. Islands are exposed to permanent and serious natural and demographic difficulties. The adopted law on islands in the government does not meet the demographic challenges facing the islands. The law does not provide complete solutions for island life, there is no housing policy with the aim of attracting new inhabitants, and if we are to say that islands should continue to develop, it will certainly need new residents. It should keep the existing one. Investments are necessary for the development of the island. That's what you were talking about at an island development conference, but in Opatija. It's easy to look from the Opatija Riva Islands and think you can't be late for the ferry, you have emergency assistance, you have health services, you have schooling but something is a little different on the islands. MOST welcomes every positive shift in the laws that benefit citizens and I must say this law is a list of wishes and guidelines for a new time. But here objectively, if we look at specific legal provisions, it is most often about other sectors that need to provide certain things. The law regulates only a small part of the specific rights to islanders which are prescribed by the applicable law. For example, the draft law prescribes islanders the right to drink drinking water, on privileged road transport, on privileged, on privileged public maritime transport, the right to preferential free transport of bridges. All these rights are regulated by the existing Law on Islands and other regulations. The islanders have long paid tickets in transport by ferry and catamarans at preferential prices or public road transport on islands is free of charge for them under certain conditions. The law does not bring anything new to the islanders, nor has it made available to other citizens. It is necessary to make islands available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia throughout the year and it is necessary to do so before and through concrete measures for which financial resources will be provided. That is exactly how serious the islanders will be. The rights they had will continue to exist under this law, mostly, nothing more and nothing less. The proposal for a new Law on Islands is also strongly substantiated and many important things are left out of it, so we will be able to see its final effects only when the draft is drawn up, the plan for the development of the island and when the regulations for the implementation of this new law are passed. In particular, the introduction of a new bureaucracy in the creation of island policies is in the eyes. It's actually about new employment in terms of something called the island coordinator. Who are the island coordinators? It is for persons, officials and bureaucrats who will be employed under this new island law to coordinate what plans and projects on islands, essentially nothing new, new employment in public administration, a new cost without a specific objective or expected impact. It is clear to all that the descent of such tasks as the coordination of island policies and plans and projects to the official level is not appropriate. Policies, plans and projects should be implemented, monitored and coordinated, those elected and responsible by citizens and are therefore already well paid, meaning in the central state body. Finally, the whole thing with island coordinators is an impertinent attempt to compensate for the lack of ambition and courage for reforming territorial reconstruction in the country and in the islands. Data from the new island law clearly show the administrative territorial fragmentation of the island. We have a situation that islands are divided into 6.7 units of local self-government, which makes it impossible to plan and solve island problems in an important unique way. You are obviously aware of this because by other laws you are proposing agreements between the counties because you know that the counties cannot fully carry out the decisions or obligations they are entrusted with. And here, between the units of local self-government, you're proposing the same agreements. That such a territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia is not good at this, you have confessed to it among other things. First of all, the unresolved property legal situation on numerous islands is to be resolved because the state of the land books issue has not been resolved and these are the basic preconditions for economic development. Legal certainty is an assumption for a functional island economy but not through a program that you predict in law, not within 2 years of the adoption of this law, it is necessary to do so much, much sooner. There is always a question of infrastructure that is not yet suitable in many islands and is under the growing pressure of seasonal tourism and tourist season. The fact is that our island and coastal municipalities must build a infrastructure that is bulky and meets the needs of those two months of the main tourist season when the number of persons is sometimes and tenfolded. In the rest of the year, only maintaining the cold drive of such a bulky infrastructure is extremely expensive and this burden of built infrastructure is held at the cost of... Locals, of course, are high utility bills. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, when we talk about municipal services, Croatian islands will have growing costs associated with new waste management policy, waste classification and its transport will be more expensive. Simply transport costs of waste from the island are much higher than on land. This central state needs to find a solution but not in the way it stands in law d Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund Article 40, it can co-finance transport costs but in order to clearly prescribe obligations on the same. So the fund would have to, or the sea. Generally, it has long been known that life on the island is more expensive than on land and there is a phenomenon of the impact of tourism on the price of daily products, the seasonality of tourism and its massity affect the price of everything and all islanders do not live on tourism, so how long can our island population endure it? It is necessary to take a step for the whole of Croatia, so that the island and bring a strategy for tourism development with clear and concrete objectives and measures, activities and the most important one, providing resources in the state budget. You should notice how capital things the state can do and... Our islands are not governed by this island law at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, digitization of public administration. Then the islanders and all those who are located in other isolated parts of the Republic of Croatia would finally become equal in accessing the administration and their administrations would be able to resolve the procedures mostly from home without having to take long and expensive trips to administrative centres. A public administration development plan adopted by the government was secured in 12 months. 2016 and 2nd of May without any comment from the European Commission, it was adopted in order to start implementing the projects. The national reform plan does not contain concrete indicators regarding the digitalisation of public administration itself, but only a number, a contract concluded. As for energy policy, so it is necessary, it is necessary for all parts of the Republic of Croatia to ensure that citizens are self-sufficient or self-sustainable. At its session, the government rejected the Law on Self-Energy, or the Micro-Solars Act, and thus ordered and slammed the door at least for the time being, mass production of electricity and sun to make consumers a producer. Today Maribor has more solar panels than the entire Republic of Croatia. But the government refused. One of the reasons she cited was the obsolescence of technology. It is necessary to do so, and there is no talk, health care and social services available, through additional investment and ensuring the necessary personnel on the islands. In particular, according to the articles of the Island Act. The law does not oblige the Ministry to adopt a programme, measures through an island-based annual programme to mitigate the shortcomings arising from the specific position of the island in relation to the headquarters of units of local self-government in which the system is located. More specifically, the Law states that the Ministry can adopt a programme of measures through the island's annual programme. And if he can, then he doesn't have to. That certainly isn't a good message. It is a bad direction to create a serious long-term policy, so it is necessary to change the word so it cannot, but it must. 9th, 6th century. The Law also defines islands with a specific position in art. The 10th century says that the Ministry can adopt a programme of measures through the island's annual programme for these specific islands, but it does not seem to have to. Furthermore, the Law is unspeakable and does not solve problems, but merely conveys them to another government, which is clearly visible in the developmental indicators for the islands. Instead of giving concrete island development indicators, it is said that accurate development indicators and the evaluation process will list the minister with the regulation. What is the point of the Law if specific questions are addressed through the regulations within 180 days. The same article is defined, the same paragraph is defined as Article 12, Article 7. The laws should be concrete and clear, not promising documents. And if this is the law, it leaves things unsettled, it also tells the fact that there is an island council being set up, while the number of council members, the part-round work of the island council, and the choice method is again prescribed by the minister by the rule, and that's why it has 180 days again. So it's six months since the law itself. Furthermore, island coordinators are introduced, and their number is determined by the Minister's decision within 90 days. Article 19, Article 7. Furthermore, the development of civil society is encouraged to be redefined through the Regulation within 90 days. The law states that the island's annual programme is adopted on the basis of a national plan and is in line with the island development plans and contains measures, projects, activities, and also states that the national plan to be adopted by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry will be adopted within 12 months of the national strategy. So we won't have a defined direction of development of the island again. A privileged right to cross the bridge will be prescribed by the Minister by regulation within 180 days. It means six months. The Croatian island product again has a way of implementing measures and activities is prescribed within 180 days. Unsettled land books are holding back the development of the island, and this government is again solving it in a way that is clearly transferring the problem to another government for resolution. It is intended to adopt a national programme, arrangements and coordination of catasters and land books on islands within two years of the adoption of the laws, i.e. the entry into force of the laws. In waste management, I have already said earlier, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund can co-finance acceptable costs of waste transport, and it can also co-finance the construction and other necessary elements for waste management. If he can, he doesn't have to. The law also speaks of the need to adopt a national programme for the protection and use of occasionally populated and uninhabited islands, islands and the surrounding sea, which the Government will adopt again within two years of the date of entry into force of this Act. Finally, the new Law on Islands is welcome. But with much more concrete measures. Even such an unambitious plan will not immediately come to life, but the whole thing will stretch to the adoption of a number of sublaws in 180 days or even a year for two years. We know that sublegal acts are not available to us parliamentarians to conduct in this House is a debate about them. They are decided on e-consultation, you and those proposals that are given on e-consultation the Ministry can, and it does not have to respect, and it would be good to actually define as many things as possible, that the islanders know what their rights are, that the businessmen who want to invest in the islands know with which support they can count. Some ideas from the Law such as the coordination of unique island projects and plans through island coordinators have no purpose and are doomed. The law goes to explain the business of island coordinators, imagine, but does not prescribe island development indicators. Again, citizens will have to bear the wages of new officials. You've got management at the Ministry, you've got government employees, you've got a lot of salaries, you've got material costs, and you're here at the Parliament to defend the Island Act that you say will bring a shift for the islanders but you're denied deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts from the adoption of the law. 180 days, two years. You are also denied the fact that according to the procurement plan, the Ministry pays an external service to make you a study and/or an analysis necessary to implement the measures of the new Island Act for 150 thousand kuna. I hope that by the second reading you will specify the measures of this envisaged can be replaced into the sea, and drastically reduce deadlines for the adoption of sublegal floors. I also call on the Government to declare an exclusive economic belt for the purpose of protecting fishermen, tourism in the Republic of Croatia because it is very important for us to protect the Adriatic Sea and to control the ecologicality, means protecting our sea through ecologicality, and to protect the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia through the fish fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92895	Thank you. We're continuing with the Advocacy Club. Col. Milorad Batinić, Club of HNS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92896	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, assistant, co-workers and colleagues. Discussing the report on the impact of the Island Act in previous years, positive trends were observed. So according to the 2001 census compared to 2011, I think the population increase is somewhere by 7 thousand and 500 which is some ratio of about 6% which is far more than the average in the Republic of Croatia which says that the current law enforcement of the current one was first passed in '99. that they did, however, make certain shifts and give certain effects. In view of this law, we at the HNS Club consider it a good improvement and we will support it as such, we have some remarks and suggestions that we will present in the debate and I believe that they are not so complicated to accept that it is corrected and that the law will certainly be accepted here in the Parliament. The aim of the law is to equalise the living conditions of citizens living on islands with us living on land. Here we have several stakeholders, from local self-government, regional, national. This law, mostly largely, provides for what the state does for citizens living on islands. In the report itself and in the analyses when it is looked at, it would be very interesting to compare how much local and regional self-government encourages the development of its islands, as a certain dissatisfaction with the valorisation of regional and local self-government of certain areas of the island in its administrative field could be heard from the discussions of previous years. I don't think there's supposed to be any more thinking, but I just believe that practice says something completely different. Reading the law as a whole and especially when you read and prescribed measures that are practically calculated according to the budget items and financially. The law is methodologically contentive, quality and ultimately there is not much to add or subtract. What I would like to point out to this relationship between local, regional and national levels is that there is obviously not enough synergy that could gain a far better quality result. What's islanders, I'm going to look at as a continental and try to create a visual image, visualize that we simply try to attach the islands to the mainland, that there's no need, that we don't have to take the ferry, that we don't have to build bridges, etc. And what's missing about the islands then? Do we have similar specificities on the continent? 'Cause there's been a lot of speeches over the past few years why the ferry is being paid, why they get rid of it, why they get rid of it, why they get rid of it. It means inaccessibility, inaccessibility. There are certain benefits of life on the islands. However, we must not ignore each other, the island lives with a full lung of 3.4, five months. The rest of the year, I had the chance to be in the winter period, so I have to admit, I wouldn't want to offend anyone but it seems a little creepy, a little creepy and a little creepy. Let's try to put ourselves in the summer, come to the island, wonderful, wonderful, lots of people, all circulation, just overcrowded, but come in winter, which is what it feels like, I say, it needs to be experienced. What is important is availability, means transport, ferry, availability of water supply as envisaged, electricity, health care, education. These are specificities that we need to understand, and we need to accept and respect differences as such. I've been asked a lot of times, so there's one student in the islands, there's two students, there's 10 etc., but these are specificities. Whether preschool education also has no price. If we want to see these positive trends that, between the two censuses, have happened, if we want to see positive trends by the next list, then just like this policy must continue to be implemented. This law speaks a lot of things that are certainly positive about self-sustainability. I'd say more geographical, territorial self-sustainability, so it's also intended to exploit mineral raw materials. I also understand that some colleagues and colleagues debated that they would destroy the islands, etc. When you look at only investments that are carried out and there is a great potential of investing in accommodation facilities, a lot of building material on an island. I had a chance, my fellow citizen had roots from Visa, she went to rebuild the family house, when I heard the numbers, people, it's at least like you were building in the middle of London. It's a specificity, it's a specificity. So until you experience something very difficult, we can accept certain differences by comparing them to where we live. Furthermore, the big problem is also traditional, traditionally some branches, industries, economics, or whatever you want from fishing, from fruit growing, agriculture that used to be much more represented on individual islands than it is today. And also when we talk about livestock, the problem of invasive species of game that simply do huge damage to the livestock stock on the islands. And I think in Article 38, there should perhaps be a clearer or clearer definition of invasive species. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Of course, the hunting economic base is the one that prescribes, however, should you perhaps add to the invasive species for understanding on the islands? We need to be aware of the fact that on certain islands, invasive species have been introduced, deliberately, targeted, by wild pigs, by shovels, by mufflons, because it's simply something that was not in line with what was being said in simplistic terms. I'm saying I'd like it here if it could be more precisely defined, that these invasive species refer to the islands we're talking about. Because invasive species, when we're talking about hunting economic bases, generally looking at these species that I mentioned, they're not treated as invasive species, so they don't put themselves in a position, let's just say, a wild pig is not an invasive species. Although hunting the economic base may not be prescribed. Clear for clarification and for more precise definition of position. As for the waste, too. As for construction, sanitary sewers, these are specificities. Well, we're not going to see the waste, of course, with the maximum waste recovery, from separation, the same thing needs to be seen, which is more rational, which is more acceptable both to the cost and to the fund, that is, the state that finances, whether the disposal of that waste or recovery on the island itself or for one part. Of course, if waste is handled by regulations, it can be neither a visual nor an ecological problem. The sustainability of the island, in terms of basic, key elements for life. Water el. Energy, health, education. That's something we can't question, if we want trends to be positive, demographics to continue, we can't question the cost of costing. Not to challenge the revolution of the islanders themselves, but I simply think that as Parliament, Parliament, as parliamentary representatives, that it is our responsibility and that we must support this bill, of course, by respecting other considerations, whether it should be complemented by certain measures. However, it is very clear that the creation of a programme, certain sublegal acts that I believe will provide answers to these questions. Once again, the HNS Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92897	Thank you. The next one is on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a colleague of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92898	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I failed to find a provision in the text of the law whether it remains to discuss once a year the Croatian Parliament discusses the impact report on the implementation of the Law on the island. If my slip is okay, if it isn't, put it in the text for another reading. Because it was an opportunity to draw attention to the specificities and problems of life on the islands once a year to the Croatian public, through a debate in the Croatian Parliament, and these discussions were always constructive, in general, devoid of day-to-day political problems and strengthened us in the view that there is a common desire to lead, therefore, a particular part of the Republic of Croatia to a policy that goes for the benefit of citizens living on the islands. The fact is that this law is already in force for 20 years, therefore, since 1999 and it is doubtless necessary for certain refreshments, certain innovations, and in this sense, we will support in our first reading the government's intention to adopt a new Law on Islands, and as for the position on the final bill, on its final adoption, we will decide that when we see what solutions will be made in the final draft of the law. This is the first chance, first of all, to look at something that is current, these are 4 things, the first absurd situation with a situation in the Municipality of Lastovo, which is blocked, due to an alleged debt, which was already paid 8 years ago. So the municipality is paralyzed and I pray both the county and the ministry to do something to avoid such an absurd situation. So Lastovo is the most remote, populated Adriatic island, a municipality that includes the island, a municipality that is even by these indices, almost at the highest level of development, and we all know it's not like that. And the municipality of the island is faced with a large depopulation. The second question is emergency helicopter services. It's something that's been established, which also doesn't work anymore, and something that needs to be returned and solved the way it was before. The third, an unreal index of development, municipalities, the city, units of local self-government on the islands, which prevent them from applying EU funds, is also a loss of funds for capital investment by tax reform, and on the other hand it is necessary to meet the growing challenges of the number of guests, the demand for tourism held in the summer months. And fourthly, the question is that the state wants to be on the islands, namely they're not even very homogeneous in their demands. Those who are born and live there want, of course, to develop and develop in one way that will bring them closer to life on land, and on the other hand, there are a number of citizens on islands who want to spend their age on islands, and they are born outside of them and, of course, it suits them with a more peaceful life and are not quite enthusiastic about some development projects. But it's a matter of citizens in local self-government units again. In the islands, they then elect their representatives and local authorities and set a course in which they want the local self-government unit to develop. What does this law offer us? In some of his articles, he calls for certain rights. Therefore, it wants to define the objectives, one objective is sustainable development, which is defined in Article 20 of the Declaration. The second objective is to encourage cooperatives on the islands declaratively, Article 23. The third objective is to encourage the development of civil society on islands declarative. A national plan for the development of islands with several specific programme areas is also planned: transport integration, water supply and disposal, economic development and entrepreneurship, demographic recovery, agriculture, fisheries and hunting, waste management, health protection and development of telemedicine, electronic communications network of high speeds, nature protection and the environment, culture and conservation of cultural heritage, preschool education, OS and SSH education and science, clean energy, energy, renewable energy sources, mitigation and adaptation to climate change, social care, civil society development, tourism, housing, protection and use of small occasionally populated and uninhabited islands and islands. When we look at these programming areas that are marked with letters and then from a to r, only the letter and the letter r, first and last are the specificities of the island. So traffic connection is undoubtedly the greatest specificity and the second is why the use of small and occasionally uninhabited islands and islands. So the national island development plan in all other segments needs to be followed by a national country development plan with certain regional specificities and we will see what it will be. The next talk is about the island development plan, then the island's annual programme, the island development agreement, etc. So the law stipulates that some of it will be passed, okay. It wasn't far from the current law either. When it comes to island rights, there is already a little more detail on the specificities of the island, and it is talking about the rights in the public transport system, such as the right to privileged public maritime transport, the right to preferential public road transport and the right to the preferential crossing of the bridge. The introduction of the law seems to me an island card, which is what I think should be complemented by the possibility of an identity card because privileged transport is achieved by the basis of the residence provision, and in an individual debate, I will look a little more at the fact that I think I should regulate privileged transportation to the islands. There is also talk about the right to drink water and equate the price of drinking water on the island with the price on land. The economic development of the island, the Croatian island product, the promotion of competitiveness, is also said about game and invasive foreign animal species on the islands, which is particularly important in the northern Adriatic, the exploitation of mineral raw materials on islands and waste management on islands, but all these topics mentioned above will be looked after and the ministry will bring about something or units of local self-government. What exactly is this about? This is best described in the transitional and final provisions of Articles 47 and 48. So we could actually call this more a declaration than a law, but good. Therefore, Article 47 states that the Government will adopt, within 180 days, one dozen regulations must be adopted in Article 47, meaning in Article 6(4), this law has 50 articles, and in one paragraph of one article, it is said that the Minister will adopt 10 or 11 regulations that will be several times more extensive than the law itself. The Minister will then make the decision referred to in Article 19(7) and the government will adopt a national development programme of the island within 12 months of the national development strategy being adopted. When? Who knows? The government will then adopt a state programme for the protection and use of occasionally uninhabited islands within 2 years and the state coordination programme, catasters and land books on islands within 2 years, and the Minister of Entrepreneurship will adopt the programme referred to in Article 23 and the second Minister will adopt the programme referred to in Article 24 and all representative bodies of the units of local self-government within 180 days. So the law that has several sheets will follow the rules that won't fit up to the height of this pay phone. So this is one small step in something we can or don't have to believe will ultimately end well. It also discusses the implementing rules that remain in force, several of them, and therefore I should conclude. Since we are aware that there is a need for the adoption of a new Law on Islands, the SDP Club will in its first reading, as the principle point of view that a new law should be passed, support this law. We hope that the Government in the second reading will be something more concrete, that in response to the remarks that the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament must write, that we will get some answers to these questions and also hope that we will have opportunities and discuss in future the report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92899	Thank you, colleague Arsen Bauk. That's what we ended the debate on behalf of the MPs' club, and we continue with individual debates. First individual debate, colleague Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92900	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm glad to do is behind my colleagues, so I can actually shorten my debate, not repeat everything he said. I will focus on the part that I have talked about already through the replica at the very beginning and the problems of alochton and indigenous savages on islands which is extremely unqualityly solved in this legislative proposal. There is absolute agreement, I will mention only the Island Assembly, the town of Krk, the town of Cres, Mali Lošinj, the Primorje-Gorski County, which thinks that if the law had already changed, then it should have made it more quality, not that it was completely much, much incomparably worse than the old law which in Article 13 resolved the ban on the introduction of savages who do not live on the island of nature, concessions and lease hunting grounds where this is far more quality than the current latest text, it was now Article 37, which in no way solves the problems of invasive foreign species on islands. I said today and at the beginning of this debate that this is a major problem on the island of Cres, Lošinj, Krka, that there are currently 5 times more feral pigs on the island of Cres than there are sheep and that these wild pigs create a huge problem for the local population. So you could now list here, read and quote literature that explains what an invasive species is, which is indigenous, which is allohton savage, but I won't, there's no need. So, gentlemen of the ministry, you've received all the remarks that came from the Primorje-Gorski County, from the island of Cres, the island of Losinj. The Minister of Tourism comes from small Lošinj, the Minister of Transport comes from Novi Vinodolski, I believe he will have heard and will respect our observations and completely resolve the current article 38., since he does not solve a huge problem that we have on the island of Krk, Cres, Lošinj with invasive species and seems absolutely unwarranted to me, and you gentlemen from the ministry have denied me, that this bill of law actually follows the Law of the Islands and goes hand in hand and favours the interest of a small group specifically, hunters. Therefore, please consider once again the comments concerning Article 38, read once again the old law in which this was better resolved and find a solution that will be in the interest of the inhabitants of the island of Krk, Cres and Lošinj. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92901	Thank you. Go on, Comrade Miro Bulj, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92902	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, today we are talking about the Law on Islands, the proposal in the first reading, and it is good that it is the first reading. I mentioned earlier on behalf of the club that I am sorry that here is not a resorient minister who is more concerned about whether Marko Perković Thompson will sing in Vukovar for a protest than with projects and with this law that is significant for the list, 128,000 people living on islands and starting from house to house on islands, we certainly do not have that number of inhabitants living on islands. The fact is that Croatia must lead towards these areas specific policy and that the laws that must be proposed here must affect people having equal or at least similar conditions as we have in the city of Zagreb. It will also be in future laws, in the following laws that will follow for both mountainous and mountainous areas, assisted areas where we have 80% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about the island's problems, then we immediately start with the fact that demographics are a relaxed area. So over these areas we have mostly older people and we have this simple tourist season where people come from shit and where simple resources, the potential of the island area is used and that's why we have big revenues in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And we're absolutely not returning anything to these people. Or we're going back a little bit. We can start with anything. Like what? concessions. In my Split-Dalmatia County, the best example was the concession on the island of Brac, i.e. More specifically, the Golden War, where it was simply neither local self-government nor people living absolutely had anything but the one who had the HDZ membership card and it was proven and therefore dropped out of Mayor Ževrna, then running for mayor. And so all concessions. It's a huge wealth and potential that doesn't come back to those people. All that money in these non-transparently furnished concessions goes into someone's pockets, where they live if they live in Zagreb, Ireland, these people, in Germany, who they are, who they, who they got these concessions, to whom they were intended, of course in the party oligarchy and the top parties, not all people, of course, all have the right to be party members, but it is a fact that it is unfair. Well, then we're wondering what happened to the ship's lines? So who's going to live on an island where we don't have secured shipping to school, to college, emergency services we don't have organized, and you're separated from land. Of course no one. 18% of GDP comes from tourism, and largely from the island area. And we are now here in 2018 discussing politics, i.e. about a law in which there is absolutely no measure. This was supposed to be the whole law, from demographic policy, traffic, to all ministries, energy. This is where we talk about the energy problem. Well, the MOST gave it, so it was forbidden here to show a film to solve the problem of energy that counterpart Ante Cikotic and suggested with his team and then presented it here, very few parliamentary representatives came. Microsolors that would solve these people's energy problem if they had islands. And we have the sun. Speaking of representatives, other problems. Speaking of the price of a ticket. So how much do we take the islanders, why would the islanders who live on the islands ever pay that ticket? Why is it that what we have from Dalmatia, Istria, the island, the areas that we have from other provinces from Prevlaka to Savudrija, all the islands that we have would not return it to them through free transport to people from the island? Agriculture. Agriculture on the islands is very important. But I'll tell you one example now. I was a few days ago, I mentioned it on the island of Pag, Gorica is called, a small place where we have more than 20 OPGs dealing with production, eco-production of Pag cheese, breeding of sheep and lambs. Pag cheese is a brand. With that, he praised Parliament in Brussels and Plenkovic while in Brussels with Paška cheese. So we're not going to let a loading station for mixed waste, unclassified waste build exactly in areas where sage grows, healing plants, where sheep feed. And people are the only ones who live on it. And the loading station in... places. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there aren't many voters and of course it's the easiest place to put them. It will be easy for us for these 20 OPGs, with 4-5 thousand sheep, who are accompanied by these OPGs, who produce cheese, instead of encouraging these people and even these OPGs have also received funds from EU funds. They're protesting today. He'll go outside Zadar County before the assembly, with sheep. He'll leave them to Mayor Longin to keep them on the streets of Zadar. We're talking about Pasha cheese here. A colleague, or Mayor of Pag, does not matter who it is because of all the mayors and mayors in the area. Both the entire area and all the islands, and we Croatia are as rich as the state and recognised by the islands. Water. I mentioned it. We've got rivers. I live in the area from Krka in Dalmatia to Neretva. And it's a questionable delivery of water to those people. They have to pay for it at a special price. While at the same time in the islands and our area, of course, does not pay... No teleopers, no one pays them anything because it suits these people, and from those means it would be a solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most important thing is environmentalism and waste management. But here you would point out one more time. Let's keep production on the islands, that's the most important thing. Agricultural production will preserve these people, and most importantly what the Republic of Croatia must not lead a sovereign policy, the declaration of an exclusive economic belt. I asked for the thematic session in Split-Dalmatia County i.e. Club MOST independent lists and in all county coastal, by the sea. They say it is unnecessary to discuss it in the county area. Well, people, the declaration of the sole master protects the fish resources, our fisherman on every island and coast, and especially on the island, not that we have foreign Italian fleets, mainly from Italy billions of kunas catching fish and selling as additional value in our waters. But we don't have the courage to declare it for 20 years. Then we should have joined the EU, so we shouldn't have, so we have to arrest, locate, transfer all the generals to join the EU, now we have to court Vukic for the EU. We signed, they say. Yeah. It was signed by Orban and Hungary. Signed to sell their land with the EC once they join the EU after several years of agricultural activity. Made man a referendum, Hungarians voted that there was no sale of agricultural land. And in the Republic of Croatia, we sell everything. The islands, ours, in our waters we allow to do whatever they want, drop ballast waters wherever they want, we have stains bigger than the city of Split in our Adriatic areas, but just streaming saves us, which is what the stains that are ecological come to the area Once again, I call on the minister to come here, to deal with islands and assisted areas, and whether Thompson will drink at a protest rally in Vukovar. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92903	Thank you, time. Next debate, please colleague Bulj, slowly, well slow down. Please continue with the individual debate, the next application is a colleague of Branimir Bunjac, whom he does not have, and then we continue with colleague Grozdan Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92904	Thank you very much, Vice President. Unlike us, who we are and who live in areas, where islands are part of a unit of local self-government, many here don't even know that the problems of the island and then both in the previous period and our population on the islands had to be dealt with. When we look at that in Croatia we have 51 units of local self-government on the islands and 8 units of local self-government that are responsible for the islands, among other things, and the city of Zadar, where I come from, which in its composition has 8 islands and where it has been very difficult to organise and achieve the equality of that citizenship and the population with others, then this bill must certainly be welcome, that everyone accepts it and admits that it is quite a step forward, compared to what it has been so far. In fact, you know for yourself that there are very few people on the islands, so according to this, it has been changed here, that compared to the law, which regulates the size of units, which is the law on regional development, these sizes, or density, have to be reduced to 2,000 people, in order to make that possible in accordance with Article 26. And certainly, the basic problem is how to make life as comfortable as possible for that population, especially during that period, when it's a winter period, not just a summer when we think everything on the islands is wonderful and wonderful. Yes, the problem is both water and waste, the problem is transportation, the problem is both students and students, the problem is, there is also in taking care of old and powerless people, so all of these are problems that weigh the islands. We had a case to say, for old and powerless, although we had a program to help care in the house, for some islands, we couldn't get at all a person, on an island, who was willing to do it. So these are the real life problems that need to be solved and dealt with and which this law also foresees with a lot of stimulation. When we say waste disposal, so here, is an example of Zadar's Diklo, which "thanks" to those ministers who have complicated our lives, so that the waste dump, i.e. the island's management centre, Biljana Donja, is still taking care of the waste in Dikla. And all waste comes to the area of Dikla, i.e. only the city, where no conditions are created or provided, in order to take care of that waste in a quality way, i.e. that is not a complete solution. So, it hasn't started construction yet, although for 10 years there's been a problem, and there's been a project of a waste management centre in Biljaji. The price of water is also crucial in the islanders, because in the previous system, through the fund was solved the problem of supplying that water and with this law, I see that it is in particular that there are steps, where it is allowed to run, that 45 cc's seem to me, is approved for transportation which is subsidized, with that 5 cc's per household is this monthly. It means that the price is equal to the price of the water supply area to which it belongs. When we talk about road and public island transport, then here they mentioned some colleagues that everything should be free. So I think this is how the law provides that free public transport for children categories up to 8 years of age, students and students, pensioners, islanders, older than 65 persons with disabilities, is also a student and students studying on an island and home users for elderly and powerless persons on islands. Therefore, subsidies are large, large part of the population and everyone else actually appreciates all other citizens on islands and locals cannot be higher than the cost of transport on land, which is very important. And this part is again subsidized through some aid institute and subsidies from individual ministries, which is visible and from the very very proposal of this law. So it's important to say that the law that preceded this, which had been changing and supplementing, happened in the last 2006 which is when we look at what time-out it has been since then that no one has seriously entertained the islands. And here, now with this law and these two other laws, we can really say that it's long-term thinking about how all the key problems of the island and the island are actually solved in a quality and fair way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92905	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. A colleague of Sonja Chikotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92906	Dear colleagues, in your presentation you said that the waste management plan was passed, complicated the waste with a new sorting method, you spoke of Biljani Donji. You were saying that one, that construction hasn't started yet, is waiting for public procurement to take place for a year to conduct public procurement. And you also said there's been a project for 10 years. Yes, there has been a project for 10 years, about why it has not been solved and why no new waste management plan as proposed by MOST Minister Slaven Dobrović is actually a European way of introducing a circular economy and decommissioning waste. And of course it went down to the waste management center because they're, now it's also a Pishcorn and the rest that they're unsustainable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92907	Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92908	Yes, your minister wanted to do some things better, but it hasn't moved out of place for 10 years because he's made certain changes he's made that made it impossible to launch the whole project. So, the project that he had for that time period and period that had a vision of how to solve the actual problem of waste management of the Zadar County and Lika-Senj area was stopped just thanks to your minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92909	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92910	Thank you very much. My colleague, Peric, I was asked on the line by your statement in the debate that this law has not been amended since 2006. In 2006, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Development passed the law. Let's look at the effects of this law, how much infrastructure was made and how the Croatian islands lived after that law. And today, when we discuss this law, we need to look at what was good and make this law an upgrade to what was good. After all, these islands are alive and today they have new needs. And we need to discuss these new needs and not argue here what is who and how has done it because simply the new law should be an upgrade over the existing one. What's milk that's spilled, we can't already hunt. Or when we talk about the island of Krk, islanders don't pay the bridge anyway, but why don't the Krcans ask that some of the money used to pay the bridge is left to them and to invest those funds for the transport infrastructure on the island. I think it would be far smarter and more meaningful than asking for an end to something that they don't pay for anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92911	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92912	I'm not saying it wasn't done well, but I'm saying that since 2006, there have been other governments who are now trying to represent these and such governments who haven't found a reason to add anything from 2006 to 2018. So there were some other governments who didn't need any change. And I'm sure with these changes that were happening until then, there's been a lot of shifts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92913	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. A colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92914	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. Well, here's to us colleagues and colleagues, we have a proposal for a law on islands. Since this law was passed in the Government, I've been communicating with several commissioners, mayors from the island or who have islands in their territory and I must admit that none of them have expressed dissatisfaction. Moreover, we heard that in the working group there were also numerous representatives of cities and municipalities and they are satisfied with this law so I find it a little unusual to listen to the debate in the Assembly with numerous criticisms about it. It is certain that when different rules are passed that there will be some and some minor dissatisfactions, but I believe that the ministry and the promoter, as the law has been passed, will hear and listen to the suggestions of all the islanders so that we will be equally satisfied with the rules and with this law. The truth is that the islanders and we here today would be even more pleased that we have concrete measures but we all know that it is related to the state budget and to the funds, and we must also have understanding that it was not possible to put it all into the Island Law now. What I can see, I'd like to point out, too, is that it's an example. The government of the Republic of Croatia will bring a national development plan to the ministry's proposal in seven years. There are exactly no fewer than 17 island programming areas, from transport connections, social care, demographic reconstruction, water supply, draining, and so I don't list, and then standing exactly, the national plan is putting together specific targets and they will be linked to the state budget. So for all those who think that this is just one light story, the light text, it says that the government will process all 17 areas on a proposal from the ministry and then we'll have exactly that link to the state budget. It also requires cities and municipalities, meaning the representative body of the units of local self-government on the island must also adopt an island development plan and the executive bodies must, of course, stick to this plan of development of the island and continue to stand, the means necessary for the development of each individual island development plan will be ensured in equal proportions, the ministry, the units of the regional (regional) self-government, meaning that no island units of local self-government are left to themselves and that there is no knowledge of where specific activity will be financed. The island's annual programme must be in line with both the national plan and the development plan of the island and the ministers, i.e. in this case with us, no later than 30 September of the current year of the sea, for the following year, the programme will be adopted and once a year the Government will report on the implementation of that programme. In this law we have different measures and how to encourage the economic development of the island, and we also have a number of stimulating activities of importance for the economic development of the island, and then we have all the activities, from olive growing, vineyarding, shelling, diving, etc. to tourism, eco tourism, cultural tourism, etc. I would appeal not now to this ministry but to all others who should also see accounts when they pass their laws on islanders and in what way they reach not only the development of the island but also the retention of islands, so as we have a whole chapter dedicated to drinking water rights, the price of water will be evened, drinking water on the island with a price on land. I would pay attention and appeal to the Ministry of Finance what about non-expensive energy, so-called. Blue diesel. For example. My originals have olive groves on the island of Tiyata, Murterini have olive groves on the Kornati. They're using the ship until their O.P.G., so that ship doesn't serve them as entertainment, but inside they can't use energy, so on. a blue diesel on which no excise duty is paid unlike the one on land that uses the same blue diesel for its agricultural machinery. Furthermore, when we count what we want to encourage on the islands, tourism also stands. A tourist facility, for example. in the Kornati it is not possible, and there are certainly many other places on the islands where we have no connection to the public power grid. Also, for the use of aggregates, our islanders are not able to use that energy on which no excise charge is paid, which means that it significantly collects its costs without saying that even with the construction itself, we heard just before Mayor Cres, that at least 30% and on such islands is more expensive construction and investment, so here's an appeal to the Ministry of Finance if such costs could be reduced. She would agree with those colleagues and colleagues who notice and who would rather and I would, for example. in Article 40, when we talk about waste management on islands, we know that it is the concern of units of local self-government, meaning cities and municipalities, that it does not say that the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund will be able to co-finance the eligible costs of transporting waste from the island to the mainland, as well as the costs of building and equipping buildings for management rather than really having to or co-finance what would be very good even now. This law has also corrected me, I would say, an injustice that the islands had been cut off, which, for example, were wronged. Belonged to other larger developed cities. The island of Prvic belongs to the town of Vodice and therefore belonged to the same group of development regardless of what the island is. The same is true of the islands of Žir, Kapre and Zlarin, which belong to the city of Sibenik, we have such cases when it comes to the cities of Zadar and Dubrovnik, so it is true that we have islands with a specific position and they will be treated in a different way but will not be neglected there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92915	Thank you. We have no replicas and therefore we continue with the individual debate, colleague Branko Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92916	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, assistant minister with associate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Boric spoke of the adoption and support of the Law on Islands and I fully share his opinion that this law should be passed and, finally, that new step towards the sustainable development of the island or the promotion of sustainable development of Croatian islands. This law is important for islands, too important, and it is a lex specialis but nothing less for living on Croatian islands is less important law on line coastal maritime transport which defines the transport link between Croatian islands and the Law on maritime good and seaports, which is largely governed by the most valuable space on Croatian islands, which is a maritime good and regulates economic relations on this maritime good. It is therefore good that we have recently passed the Law on coastal maritime transport, and that soon the Law on maritime good and seaports, which will also be very interesting and which will significantly determine life on Croatian islands and in the part of concessioning and treatment on waterfronts, harbors, ports, ports and all that, then, in a certain way, encourages and enables the development of nautical tourism, which is very important for life on the islands. This is the second time in the Croatian Assembly in the process of passing the Law on Islands. The first law was adopted in 1999 on the basis of a great document here, now that Boric, means the summary now held by his colleague Boris, which is the National Programme for Sustainable Development of Croatian Islands, which was adopted in 1997 and which at that time made a great analysis of life on Croatian islands, defined which proposals should be made, which the future Law which was adopted 2 years later should contain, which forms of donation, subsidies, the support of the state budget should be ensured that this Law on Islands could be implemented. And if a Law in the Croatian State was concrete in helping a particular area of the Republic of Croatia, then it is the Law on Islands and I believe that this Law of 1999 has really done a great, very, very much for the Croatian islands. He introduced, among other things and more importantly, a larger subsidisation of island or coastal maritime transport, introduced vignettes, today passed into island cards, introduced nightlines for large islands, which was an important moment in the development of the island, introduced, or reduced, there was a significant reduction in ticket prices, introduced free tickets for certain categories of population, introduced water supplies, introduced a Croatian island product, introduced small value support for every employer whose centre on the island, for each of its employees who has an island and residence etc. And this Law has done a great deal to improve life on Croatian islands. But at the same time, here it is, 18 years from that law, things have changed significantly. The islands are no longer what they were. Especially large islands, Croatia's large islands that have been inhabited and made a significant step. The fact that there are over 26.5 million tourist nights on the islands and that some 3.5-4 million tourists are talking enough about the position of Croatian islands, how many Croatian islands, not only in the island season, but also in the tourist season, represent added value to Croatian tourism, and then to the Croatian economy when we are aware of the fact that 20% of GDP comes from tourism. From that fact, the 1999 Law was consummated and it was high time to... The new law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to correct my colleague Grozdan. In 2006, it wasn't a break-in year after things collapsed on the islands. However, the best year in the history of Croatian islands is in 2008 according to data from the obvious implementation of the Law on Croatian Islands where the most ever was invested in Croatian islands, and I hope that we will reach that year very quickly, so that the Law has long been highly encouraged for the development of Croatian islands. I'd mention one project, I don't know if it was mentioned, I wasn't here the whole time, and it was a project... 4 where we're with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the Council of Europe has provided significant resources to raise municipal and social infrastructure on the islands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About 40 water supply and drain systems on Croatian islands were then resolved. Over 48 social infrastructure facilities, from health homes, schools, kindergartens, halls, firehouses. So, it was an enormous step in numerous investments in municipal... The infrastructure and I am sorry that the SDP Government in 2011 and 2012 respectively... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which should rest on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I apologize, it abolished it, and already there were numerous new projects on Croatian islands and in the Croatian coast that should have continued such a very intense construction on Croatian islands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's the time behind us. We've got nothing left to come back to. So this law is my support. What's important is that he's anticipating all those achievements of the existing law, but he's moving forward. First of all, this was due to the fact that we entered the EU in 2013, which is a new European regional policy that implies a different treatment than we did in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2009, 2010, 2011, when almost all investments in Croatian islands were financed from the state budget and then those allocations were increased. I believe that now with 3 basic documents that this Law assumes, this is the National Plan for the Development of Croatian Islands, the Plan for the Development of Croatian Islands and the Island Annual Programme, that we will implement them as soon as possible. The National Plan for the Development of the Island must be the most important document and as important as this Law is, it will be successful or unsuccessful in terms of how well the Government will design a national plan for the development of Croatian islands, which is a seven-year document, it is a practical strategy for the development of Croatian islands, and the document must recognise the specificity of the island both in terms of education and in terms of health and in terms of the judiciary and when it comes to all those state services provided to the islanders. It is not the same criterion for the number of students in Zagreb and Vis. It is not the same criteria for health homes in Split and, for example, in Lastovo. Therefore, this particularity of the island should be recognised by the National Programme and must be answered in accordance with that National Programme, it must be responded to the positions of the state budget where significant funds must then be allocated to the islands, not just through the regional ministry, and not only through the Department of Islands, whose return as state institutions I very much welcome. For us islanders, the Board of Islands has always been a central place in the state administration where it could come to know about new projects, programs, applications, management has helped, many mayors and mayors of the exact cities and municipalities in designing projects, programs, for the development of their units of local self-government and it is good that we have returned the management of the islands. What I also welcome is the announced cabinet meeting on Hvar on the occasion of 150 years of Croatian tourism. It finally takes place at that session in its final draft law, which should accept certain remarks and suggestions, which were made during this first reading, that this law, at that time, should be further extended with proposals that came out of the debate itself and that, at that session, government, count and speed up important projects, primarily infrastructure or transport and municipal infrastructure, as well as social infrastructure. I think that at a meeting on the island of Hvar, the government session should indeed be designed, all those projects, which are numerous units of local self-government, and regional self-government, already nominated, should then be allowed to be implemented in that session of the government. So, I support law-making. I think that, I support a new way, which, I think, my colleague Branka said, should establish the obligation of the environmental fund when it comes to helping waste management islands, i.e. the export of waste from the island. There should also be a obligation of the fund to enter with one additional subsidy that has not been so far. In that sense, I support the adoption of itself... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92917	Thank you. We have five replicas on your exhibit. He's my first colleague, Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92918	My colleague Bačić, I would only have one brief intervention about lex specialis. This is not a lex speciality as much as I might wish it were, because you said yourself, that among other things there is no obligation of the environmental fund, that there must be, too, all other bodies in the state, which may want in the rules, etc. He'll sort things out. If Lex were a specialist, then it would be settled in this law. And I won't do much, but I hope it's good to have this competition, who made more for the islands, so it's good, that there are ministers here, so we could talk about it in particular. But I think it's a positive thing, and then I'll see in the debate later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92919	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92920	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Kologa Ostojić, a long time no space in Croatia, had his own law, except for the island, later came assisted areas, later... The law on the mountainous mountainous area, but we're with that law... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] years and he, as I said, helped develop Croatian islands, in that sense, I hold him as a lex specialist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I agree with you that he is not, because he does not solve all of the island's life problems. I said, that nothing less for the development of the island, maybe a little less, but almost in the same plane is the Law on Linely Coastal Maritime Transport, especially identical, because that law, it places, if I may say so, subsidized with 400 million kuna life on the islands. They help the islanders and others to get to the island. So that's what I was going to say, when it comes to lex specialist, and as far as who gave more or less, the best ones say numbers and mathematics is the most reliable one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92921	Thank you. A colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92922	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bačić, what you said in your presentation, and what is extremely important, is very important how to get to the islands. So there is one problem in this sense, which would be a good idea, which is the theme of sailing. There are sailing schools on the islands and there are good sailors. And they organize regattas. But when someone comes to these regattas, they don't come by sea, because they're 15-year-olds, they come to the racers. And they tried several times, and in different ministries they prayed that when it came to organised competitions, children up to 15 years old that for these trailers, which are not so small, they were successful, in terms of transport on islands, somehow to find understanding and in all ministries they did not find understanding except in the state sports office that understands what it was about. So it seems to me that the second reading would be good for this law as well as for a number of others who are related to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92923	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92924	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Mrak Taritaš, you were longtime president, seems to me to be the sailing alliance of Croatia, you should have known that there is a possibility and never a Jadrolini, first of all, was not deaf, if I may say so, was not deaf when it came to sports competitions, especially when they were children and when such events took place on islands. But what you said was more appropriate to suggest in the amendments to the legal on coastal coastal transport because there is a definition of transportation from the island to the island and such activities to be welcomed, which is that these regattas are held on the islands, could be co-financed or, then, Jadrolinia should be able to ensure that regatta is provided, that these trailers are truly cheaper transport to the islands. But I say and now, with one small request, Jadrolini always works.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92925	The next replica of counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92926	Thank you very much, colleague Bačić, first of all, well that we are negatively, in the morning energy, I think we have now switched to positive and we are talking about what is concrete and maybe we should take up to two more readings. I think it's very important here, again what you mentioned, islands means with a specific mark. Those small, poorly-inhabited, we really need to find ways, that these 10 doctors of family medicine, for these small islands, we have on these islands, in these hospitals, that we've made, we've restored them, and that we can't stimulate them, if the state can't, because there's a general regulation for everyone, for all doctors, for all equal salaries or I don't know, a little different, let them take over on themselves local self-government or county because we have the experience of tourist clinics and I know that no local self-government on the island will be able to provide funds in the summer months for foreigners, for guests, for tourists, and for the big sums to get a special team just for that, then I think that these little islanders and those islanders on those islands deserve and
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92927	.../ Intruder Hajdash Doncic, thank you. Here's your answer. Here's your colleague, Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92928	I thank Mr. Vice President, my colleague Buric, if anyone knows the problems of the islanders, it is you and for many years you have led this portfolio in the ministry and in the state administration, and I agree with you that through this national sustainable development programme it is necessary to recognise this specificity, even less my Korčula or Hvar or Krk or Brac, therefore Pag, stronger more developed islands, and where and where more attention should be paid to small islands, i.e. the poorly populated islands, the coastal islands where that step is needed and when it comes to health, education and when it comes to all those other services of state administrations should have understanding and provide means for their realisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92929	Thank you. The next replica of colleague Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92930	Thank you very much. You have touched your colleague Bačić well for a period of time because he always carries his problems and ways to solve them. At that time, the only possibility to do something about municipal infrastructure and public infrastructure was funds from institutional banks. Today these are EU funds, and now it's just a matter of how much we agree to withdraw those funds, it's exclusively up to us. But I came forward because of something else and counterpart Juric and counterpart Peric mentioned, and counterpart Boris mentioned the problem of waste disposal. This debate in Croatia about waste disposal reminds me of public debate and expert debate on electricity sources, then certain groups force atomic energy, certain groups force hydro, third renewable sources, and waste dumps. And unfortunately, the islanders can't solve this problem on their own, they need to be dealt with by the one who has the money, and that's the environmental fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92931	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92932	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you're right. Those years when we were together in the state administration, the funds that were... They were mostly signed by Minister Shuker, Minister of Finance, and I know how much of that money was secured, but what you said yourself... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] projects that were additional value on Croatian islands enabled very, very intense construction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this second part you said I absolutely agree and fully support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92933	Thank you. And colleague Grodana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92934	Here I would just like to refer to this part when I said that since 2006, there has been no change in the law, so it meant that everything that is in these laws, or 99 to 2006 and by applying it from 2006, it was further seen how many ports and what you said and the homes of pensioners and halls, etc., but since 2013 when we entered the EU, so it was also necessary to think about how much more favourable and better to withdraw funds and how to use them as much as possible on the islands, and then there were no interventions, which unfortunately was not because then it would certainly be much better and better quality development.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92936	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You are right, colleague Peric, when you talk about the last amendment to the law, the last amendment to the law was in 2006 concerning the introduction of the first law, and it was defined how and how to prevent the sale of small uninhabited islands and islets that were privately owned, although the island is never privately owned because if the land is privately owned, that ring that is white, which the maritime well could never have been sold and could not have been in that sales contract. However, in order to prevent the purchase of certain tycoons, the islands were then subject to this law, by amending the island law, to a procedure that defined the conduct and right of the championship, and on the other hand, not by predetermining the maritime good line, we practically stopped in one day the sale of small islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92937	Thank you very much. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92938	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I agree with those who believe that in this House ministers should be, especially when such important laws are even trying to be lex specialis etc., to be here with us, but well, it already seems a common thing. I'm going to say a few sentences about the practical things that I think I can do in this part of the first reading possible help to fix in order to be a better law, so no one should feel it as a situation, or assess it because someone thinks the law is good or not bad, I think our obligation is to help and correct legal solutions that are... To bring a better life to our islands and I believe we're all interested in it that way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I think that in the ship's passenger traffic with land and especially between islands, it is necessary to promote a simpler entrepreneurial engagement of the domicile population, I think that we understand very well what I'm talking about, which is that there are islands not everywhere in Jadrolini, there are no private people and other things that I think are very important, in order to help them in some way and better regulate traffic connection. Secondly, those who live on land right now, it's a topic that you certainly had, people who are off the island eventually and gone, we often fight for the diaspora to go back to the Republic, I hope it should be a trend for those who have left the island for various reasons of schooling, after all else, to be treated so now I'm going to say the occasional island. This current situation is such that those living on the island are also occasional islanders because certain things have to work on land and of course we can't bring theater, you can't have all those things, hospitals, etc. There is a measure on the islands, so, therefore, a relationship can exist. It is known who these people are, those people who are not only in the season when they come to their cottages but also in the winter, they intend to be in their real estates, to process olive groves, to deal with agriculture, to carry out amongst other things and legal obligations, which is to treat their land, in particular it means to reduce the risk of fires, to really be those who will have a certain minimum so-called. I'm talking about the period that the island makes. So let's not look over the summer because it's a completely different picture, I'm talking about a time when at 5 o'clock, when you fall on the floor in that village, by 11 o'clock no one will see you, about that period I'm talking about. That means the eight months. Or maybe seven if some are better developed in terms of life in those environments. Given this lack of precisely cultural and sporting events, I fully agree with Mrs. Mrak Taritaš, who mentioned earlier, we cannot again depend on the mercy of Jadrolinia or anyone else, there must be a system that knows that sports teams that come to the league islands that are being held, those from the island participate in cities or on land can have, of course, co-financed or resolved systemically and not on request. I am of the opinion that this would help to achieve exactly that we do not have such a lack of cultural and sports events especially in those winter months that I say are very important for all those who live there. Of course, the doctor, the school, the job, etc., but I think it's very important that this part here comes down to the story of civil society. I think there's a way to subsidise the programmes themselves that they can absolutely be financed, I'm telling you, I can't go into details now, from the EU because there are specific programmes for assistance and sustainable development, of course, of the island. As for the concession on maritime good, we will again come to the conclusion that it may be some other law, but at least in this part of the declarative resolution that enters this law, I think that the issue of awarding concessions must have a greater impact of units of local self-government on these ones, that the issue of distribution of income may also be here at least mentioned and assigned to the local self-government unit on islands and greater and more quality control, and I think that we could achieve a lot more and that means that they have the original income that can then naturally improve the quality of life. As for the issues raised in the law and which I see as being put forward and as a priority, I want to highlight it here, it is a matter of solving land books and catastras and, in particular, establishing the limits of maritime good what I think are extremely important things especially on all the islands that are currently doing such paper, today, now, and the abolition of courts etc., come to an even more difficult situation and that means that it will not solve this burning problem. I am also of the opinion that the matter of renting space, business space, state space, concessions on state property, etc. must be related to that part of entrepreneurship. That's where we have to find the part that's not included in it. Which is not just a matter of service activities, but one that struggles only to be something else and to maintain life throughout the year. I have to give you an example and that's that when you have dental medicine or surgery, someone has to keep it open throughout the year regardless of... Because there's really no way he can have enough patients, he can't shut down over the winter, and that's something that makes it impossible for people to do that job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is just one of the concrete examples. Schools on islands, something that is not exploited, should also be given a subsidy for those who want to organise universities, universities, etc. in places that have been empty for over a year. From the time the tourist comes out to the time when the season opens, there is a place where cultural life can be raised, a raised situation in which it will naturally be income, these are not large institutions, but let's apply the Norwegian model. This is how Norwegians work, organize their schools, or universities, that work for over a year on islands. Over winter on the islands. It's not like that in the summer, of course they have another part of the job. Catamarans, hydroplanes, something that we've already had positive shifts, etc., it should be absolutely stimulated. And the question of the island council. It was better regulated before today. This means that in the old law it was known exactly who they were, so who the members were, now it's already been left on the disposition rule. My opinion that there was a better schedule for the previous ones, which means that you knew who the ministers who were in the island council were than that left the question of the regulations and I think you could make a better step forward. What's also important to me, and that's a question, let's say, here's a specific case of the Lasts. I can't help but mention it. Maybe you don't read it, but this example just shows that it's actually a condition. We have an island where he's got a few more natives out there fighting and we're in a situation with all the talk to listen to, this island can be shut down. This island will actually be shut down if it does not intervene urgently, and the funds are not or deserve it, perhaps this session costs more than what it takes to get out. And secondly, they're not asking for charity, they're asking for a situation so they can pay for everything they have on their own. They'll turn off kindergarten, shut down school, no more electricity. And Lasto's crossed. I don't think it's an interest of the Republic of Croatia and that's where it needs to be intervened. As for the list of wishes, deadlines, etc., without determined obligations my suggestion is that it is better to prescribe... that there are certain deadlines until when this and this programme will be completed, until when it will be done without any intention of saying anything wrong in terms of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if I may, on security matters, there's one more thing to add. The reserve police need to be hired. It's something the islands also lack, it can also be regulated here and allowed to be subsidized. ... They don't need apartments, they don't need spaces, and I think that's the way to go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92939	One replica. A colleague of Arsen Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Ostojić, you mentioned a number of important topics concerning this Law and this could indeed have been put into the form of a declaration. In addition to two or three rights in several specific articles, everything else will be encouraged, your goals are, it will solve it by the minister's rule. And I hope that all your proposals will be heard by all the ministers because this goes to a few ministers who need both education, health, transport, regional development, etc. For example, it's a matter of price policy of ferry tickets. So, let's say I don't think the same price should be at any time of day. We have a situation where there is a very big crowd and you may be a little scattered both by the island ports and the city of Split in that sense. And to expand the circle of people who have a privileged right to transport and to those who occasionally come, often come to the islands, but are not permanent residents.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92941	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92942	I thank my colleague, Bauk. I think you're absolutely right about these definitions and everything, but I believe that the government of the Republic of Croatia is going to be sitting in Hvar right now, so we're going to see if they're going to do it. I am only saddened by the fact that 26 new chairs will be bought on Hvar that cost thousands of kuna for the occasion from the funds intended for the development of the culture of the town of Hvar. Well, that's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92943	Thank you. We're moving on. The next individual debate on the proposal for a Law on Islands is the debate of counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92945	Thank you very much, Vice President. We were interrupted again, the gentlemen from this independent detective agency live wall and from the MOST, and now we've had a little break on a good subject, about islands. We've heard what they've been investigating, what they're still investigating, and the fact is that it's been pretty busy lately. The only question is why. But good. When we talk about the Island Law, we heard today that this Law is not a lex-specialis but slightly looks, given some provisions. It has not been so far, since it has been editing and not overpowered by some general law, but it has regulated specific sublaws with a lot of measures that have then found their space within the state budget. What we must certainly say is that here there is a confusion that all laws in the Republic of Croatia are equally valid for all citizens, including islanders, and that this Law only wanted to improve certain segments that have long been seen as a lack and possible opportunity to preserve life, improve better and better quality organization and then deliver what has long been written, means in the National Programme to ask for little to quickly return something more. And the total policies towards the islands since 1997 are on the trail. As these rights were established in the first place, it clearly meant that the National Programme had been written and adopted, the Law on Islands came from it, but also other laws, such as the Law on Line coastal occasional transport and the Law on Islands, a number of rules which were listed here, in order to implement certain levels of measures and, of course, by means of these regulations with clear impact assessments on the budget, were planned. Special funds were planned in the departmental departments for the islands, and from other ministries it was the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure at its department for the construction of ports, for the promotion of maritime transport and of course, lately Croatian road in its section for paying the costs of crossing the Krk Bridge. When we talk about subsidies, we have on the islands road transport for students, students, pensioners, water supply for those not connected to the water line. We have incentive employers, so-called. support for small value up to 200,000 euros in three years, we have a free bridge crossing towards all islands for islanders, I speak for the islanders and certainly the most significant, most recent sea transport. What was also encouraged with not too much resources, but it has had a very great effect over the past 11 years, it is certainly a Croatian island product created today by one... small island producers who, by 2017, marked almost 880 products and lines of products which we certainly didn't count when we started to realize that it would indeed be so and specifically on the islands and made from the original island raw materials or products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is certainly necessary to mention capital aids which do not go under this or the provisions of this Act, but are the best aid to local self-government. It is worth mentioning the support and development of civil society associations and certainly what we had up to a few years ago, loans... which unfortunately was abolished by all... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] who were only available and only that, although he had already started implementation, was completely unwarranted, but what we will do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, perhaps the task of managing us to find an opportunity to have another one to finally end, I mean all the facilities of social and municipal infrastructure on the islands, not counting the funds that we can withdraw from European funds. What do we have today when we talk about maritime transport? 51 state line, of which 24 ferry, 15 high-speed and 12 ships. We also have 8 lines without a public announcement obligation, which means that in the season we are introducing lines so that we can do better, especially in Dalmatia, besides what the state is paying for, means service to everyone who wants to come to those islands. Jadrolinija has refurbished 15 ferrys and boats through its reconstruction programme and bought new catamarans, which is certainly one big incentive for even better transportation of Croatian islands. There's certainly a single small boater when we're talking about ferry lines, a rap sail that's also made a big leap lately, and what does one or two big ferry mean for the island of Rab? Since the last five hours we've been waiting for on Saturdays, now it's 30 minutes maximum. Just so we know what it means to build a new or good port, which means to have big ferry and boats. When we talk about schools, almost all schools have been renovated on the islands and small less populated and large islands. Speaking of sports halls, all the great islands have at least one sports hall. When we talk about hospitals and health homes, there is a renewed infirmary on every small island, and therefore again that measure I'm talking about, let's find a doctor who will be stimulated, with the help of the state's salary, but to subsidize or help local or regional self-government that people have a doctor on these islands every day. When we talk about nursing homes on the islands of every big one, we have at least one, two homes for older people, we have two homes for older people and on those small, less populated islands. When we talk about water supply systems, agglomeration programs have started to build on all the systems that have been built up so far, and certainly solve the issue of water supply systems, especially when I speak for small and less populated because the large ones are connected to three regional waters and the islands of Krk, Cres and Lošinj are supplied from their own sources even though Krk is connected to water from Rijeka. When we talk about a merger of other small islands, we have long solved the Elafit Islands, also connected to the water supply from the mainland and recently done so by the island of Ilovik with Mali Lošinj. Almost 90% of all ports in which ferrys, ships, catamarans are entered, and that may be one of the greatest results, the measures provided for by the Island Law, means the overall system to be upgraded from year to year, good infrastructure, good ships, and to see what statistics bring. In 2013, the number of passengers on all lines, 11 million 100 000, vehicle number 2 million and 735 000. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 13.5 million passengers and 3 million and 300,000 vehicles, means an increase of 2 million and 400,000 passengers and 500,000 vehicles. That means infrastructure, that means a good ship, a bigger ship, and that means bigger and new revenues. What we have often mentioned today means no more health care professionals, teachers or those who are in rural schools on small islands, I think they also need one care state or local self-government differently done. And what's important, the waste that becomes a problem both construction and large and communal, we need to get communal off the island and that's now an additional cost. You've put in place a measure, I hope the Environmental Protection Fund will start implementing that measure by passing the law. As for ticket prices in maritime transport, I cite one illogicality and perhaps the same needs to be solved in talks with the Ministry. The island maps are formed either by ticket prices or by season prices. We're driving out of season. I think a space map or a tariff should be the basis for maybe forming an island ticket price that's 50% cheaper then. I think there would be a space that the state might then resolve by means or by means of subsidies to Jadrolinia. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92946	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure and two replicas. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92947	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Col. Boric, you are obliged to remind the representative of Article 232 described in that he can only talk about the topic under discussion and according to the established agenda, otherwise we have scheduled breaks, so that Boric cannot mention the club MOST at this point in the agenda because we have discovered something. I didn't discover anything, but I said that Parliament was humiliated and that it was supposed to be Minister Gabriela Žalac here, not that she's doing the rule whether Marko Perkovic Thompson will sing, it's not her job. They will sing in the area of all Croatia and all... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92948	My friend Bulj, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92949	.../Intruder Bull: The minister determines whether Thompson will sing./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92950	Thank you. There's no reason to warn because this was a free saying. So we continue with the replicas, Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92951	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, you say the Living Wall is a detective's business. No, there's no need to deal with it, it's quite obvious and a little child is clear that your prime minister lied to the public, hid the data, came to meetings and then said that he didn't, that 540 million kuna was stolen from Agrokor and divided by the political mentors of the extraordinary administration. However, since this is still about the Island Law, I would still like to ask, given that you mentioned the detectives, that it might not be bad for you to hire a detective agency and tell us how your predecessor of HDZ's head stole the Lopar municipality and also, in which way the land on the island of Rab is replaced, here is what the islanders would really like to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92952	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92953	Thank you very much. There's no need for me to respond to this attempt of insult, perhaps just to say that when we talk about islands that it's the same specificity that there are many dry walls on the islands of the Living Wall. So here we are, just so we know what we're talking about, because this insolence that's been trying to place since morning here in the assembly just doesn't deserve the theme that we're talking about and you continue with your investigations, you never know. There's a saying to our investigation and yours, as they say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92954	Replica, Comrade Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92955	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boris, you mentioned the possibility of the ministry and since there are a very large number of local self-government units on the islands in VI. or VII. Even VIII. A group of development indices, which will in a certain way seek larger funds and a larger own contribution to resolution and those projects related to EU funding, in order to be able to try, return, one of those credit lines in order to complete the projects that have been completed, thus really helping local self-government units on the islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92956	Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92957	Comrade Bacic, we've had these possibilities through HBOR, when we talk about credit lines, that's what you meant? ... A to CBS, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, we discussed the loan more or less, the EB3 was agreed, it wasn't big money, all of which cost 50 million euros, of which 25 states, 25 loans, and they were supposed to solve 50 larger facilities on islands, from kindergartens, schools, halls, to a system of draining, water supply, etc. And unfortunately, he was interrupted at the time of the SDP government for reasons that have never been explained, or for one bad reason, that there are funds, so we don't need loans, but then we'd probably be questioning all the other loans, but they're not. But as for HBOR, maybe that provision, we had HBOR with 2%. I don't see it here anymore, no. So HBOR had a special line based on the Island Law for entrepreneurs from the island 2% and at times when these interest rates were much larger, we had 2% please think about it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92958	Thank you. We'll continue the individual debate, colleague Arsen, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92959	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs, at the celebration of the 10th anniversary of the adoption of the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, Mr Tolnauer, said a sentence, we are all at one point a minority. As far as the Island Act is concerned, we are a minority, we are from the island in Assembly 4, and you are the other 147. So we're a fat minority and we're asking you to understand our specifics. And by certain acts of law, these specificities are respected and certain special rights are granted. And in this and in other laws, I am implementing myself, therefore, the desire for this specificity. Now a little bit concrete, so on behalf of the club, I said this is about a law that is actually a number of declarations, and after which 20 sublegislative acts should be adopted and a few ten-fold development plans of the local self-government units. Thus, what we bring to the congregation will only later be seen what we have actually brought, or what the government has done in its rules. That's sometimes good, because a minister or government decision can intervene in something that is perceived to be illogical, and sometimes it's bad, because some solutions under the radar can get through, which none of us wanted to get through. Two concrete proposals, one explanation, therefore, here in this document, mentions the Agency for Line Coastal Maritime Transport, Transport, and the other document plans to be abolished. It's a rather interesting situation. That's this plan to shut down the agency. The other thing about water, we're holding that five cc's in. 3 maybe a little bit and if we were to increase to 8 cubic meters, that would be better. What is still the greatest specificity and how the islands are defined, it is the area that all four sides are surrounded by the sea, and then there is the additional island of Peljesac, in order for the sea to cross, it needs either a bridge or a boat, a ferry. And of course, that those who live on the islands more often cross that seaship than those who don't live there do. However, I think that there needs to be two significant changes, it's very clear that we have a period of huge crowd, that's the 7th and 8th month where 50% of the total traffic on the ship's and ferry lines is achieved, then 6th and 9th months. where it's 25% and all the other months of the year where it's the remaining 25%. It seems to me, therefore, that there is eight times more traffic in July and August than in February or March. And I think that prices should be adjusted to encourage that transport to be used when the ferry is empty. The ferry will... One way or another, full or empty, he will maintain a regular line. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But somehow it makes sense, that when it goes empty, that the prices are lower, and when it's certain it's going to be crossed, that the prices are higher, so someone might, if it's not really on his head, go when he thinks it's going to be empty, it's logical. We had this year in the town of Split, on the weekend, in many islands, in specific hours, you knew, when you didn't have to bother to get there at all. So Supetar was jammed two, three Saturdays in the 7th and 8th months. all day, but only then. So it was possible to cut prices in the morning and evening, some people leaving the island, encourage them not to go exactly in the middle of the day, but to go, and thus reduce the crowd, it's not some big problem. The second question is, who is exercising the right to a privileged transport? Where the difference between a person living on an island and twice a year goes, for example, to Split, it has a preferential price. And the person who lives in Split and 50 times a year goes to the island, has no preferential price. So this raises the question, in a way, that all Croatian citizens are subsidizing the map and whether it should depend, not only on the residence, but also on how many times it should use it. It's a classic example of a certain discount on the number of trips. Can you do that? It's my idea, actually, that you don't pay at all, when you go to the island, you just buy a ticket when you're off the island, except where there's a bridge. So that's one question that should be settled in all these legal matters. Then, the policy of prices, outside the weekend, in winter, so that everyone goes free and those who are from the island and those who would not be such a loss, would not be such a loss to make up for a little higher prices in the summer. So whoever wants to come in summer, I mean in summer we don't miss the residents, we've got somewhere extra in summer. Of course, there are good examples. The first example is a good example of the co-operation of local self-government units with different political signs. So on the island of Brač, the town and Supetar and the municipalities of Postir, Nerežista and Sutivan agreed on a joint fire operation and agreed to build a firehouse. In Supetar, the SDP, Postira and Nerezic HDZ, in Sutivan, is an independent chief. And they managed to set it up and set one, made one common good example. Another example is demographic plus, so a combination of good maritime connections, good demographics and good local community leadership, is that we have demographic plus. But then what happens? In order for all those children who were born somewhere to sign up to be co-operated by the state, they need county cooperation and the city is not the founder. And since they're in a large development index, then it's hard for them to access European funds, that's what Mr. Bacic was saying now. And then those goals that we all declare, which are ultimately achieved, cannot be achieved for some purely banal and ground-based reasons. So instead of being happy that we have happy children and a happy town, for example, as the demographic program of the town of Supetar is called, instead of being able to enroll in kindergarten because there are unsolicited children, that they can enroll in school, we come up with the fact that the city has no opportunity to do the project documentation for school, because they have to pay for it, is not the founder, can not access European funds because they are highly developed and we come into a completely bewitched circle. So it might be good to leave everything behind, to get rid of the rules, so the ministries can react, but then let the ministries listen to what comes, what comes from the field. I've come to the conclusion several times that this funding in the Law on the financing of local self-government is being returned so the ruling majority has refused, you've now mentioned, now it's going to be an island development coefficient maybe to fix it a little bit. But here's our island constitution, so to call it like the Island Law, and I hope that what the rules are going to do will contribute to a better life on the islands, I hope that this law that I am here for the third time will be called a declaration, but let it be a declaration if it's good and then let it be done, that it will contribute to a better and, better and better life on the islands. So in summer somewhere between 15.6. and 15.9. or later, we don't need demographic policy, then we have more than our infrastructure can handle. But what can be done outside the season, so in winter let it be done. So if that requires any unusual solutions, we have nothing against it because it's really a specific life on the islands. In these 40 seconds, I once again appeal to all state bodies, to the Croatian judiciary, and especially to the High Court of Commerce to allow for its decisions the normal work of the municipality bodies of the Municipality of Lastovo which was found in an absurd and completely Monty Paytonov situation that was blocked because of the debt that they paid back 7 or 8 years ago due to various interferences with the transfer of claims, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92960	Thank you. We have four replicas on your exhibit. The first one's a colleague of Alpharev's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92961	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bauk, see Article 16 of this Law, says that units of local and regional self - government must take special care of islands, and here, now a few questions in this short time. Do you agree with me that employment is also one of the specific or specific areas of importance when both local or regional self-government units should lead when it comes to islands quickly? Secondly, do you believe that through the regulations and you've talked a lot about this will be particularly emphasized by this concern about the employment of people from the island? And I would like to mention precisely the concern and dissatisfaction and concern of our citizens, the islanders and especially of my territory, the area of Prvic, that when and the possibility of employment do not come into the opportunity to be employed because the local self-government units are the ones who choose those who do not have residence on the island itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92962	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92963	Um, so the answer to two questions is I agree and I hope but it's not that simple. So if we are talking about the right to employment, there is a constitutional provision that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to equal access to public service. And if a competition is called, then unfortunately, or fortunately, as you take, any citizen of the Republic of Croatia can come forward. I suppose it's logical on some islands that a person who does a job has to live there because he's physically not going to be able to do it from somewhere else. But it's also, I'm pretty sure that any court would lift the decision to hire someone if it said he was only employed because he's from the island. It's not just worth it anywhere else. Therefore, if we put it in some provision, its constitutionality would be questionable. And as for this, I believe the government will do the rules some good, if we don't make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92964	Replica, colleague of Yurichev Branka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92965	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Bauk, you spoke of islanders who have a residence on the island, live in Zagreb and visit the island twice a year, and have some rights, privileges and island IDs, unlike those of the islanders who have a residence in Split, and visit the island 50 times. You forgot that those who have a place on the island pay their taxes, taxes and all possible fees and those on renting rooms, apartments and the like, are also paying their unit of local self-government, meaning the municipality, that is, the city on the island, thereby increasing their budget, and something can be financed from that budget. Those who have a place of residence in Split, or somewhere I don't know in Zadar, go 50 times a year to the island, they don't fill the city's budget or municipalities on the island.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92966	Here's your answer, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92967	I have to say that I completely disagree with you, so it doesn't matter where the cut goes from someone's salary if something is financed from the state budget... No, no, so that's if something's being financed, so I'm aware that I could travel cheaper and all my colleagues from the island, but all the passengers are paying their taxes to people from Osijek, Slavonski Brod, Beli Manastir, from Zabok, from Varazdin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it's not exactly like you said. And secondly, it is not true, no, no, it is not true that if someone has a residence on the island and a residence in Zagreb tax, his tax is in Zagreb according to tax provisions, he is not from a tax residence ID, so I would stop there. So thank all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, by their tax, provide us islanders with something that they cannot afford. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92968	Thank you. Replica next number 3 of colleagues Marko Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92969	Dear fellow, here I am going to abuse this institute of replicas just to commend your intrinsic, island spirituality for so creatively intervened in the laws of logic, you have demonstrated to us this one art of hiding and revealing by hiding, and all to ultimately ensure a free ticket and transportation. I must tell you that since I've been here in Parliament, I've listened carefully, I've never heard a more creative attempt to secure the cheapest tickets possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92970	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92971	Thank you for your commendation of creativity. I have to say, with the greatest creativity, I haven't been able to figure out which one of my concrete proposals you were thinking of, so I'm going to try to resolve it in a bilateral conversation with you. But I really think that in one part of the year, in one part of the year, it's better for the state not to charge for transportation and that it doesn't charge in one part of the year, the same amount, compensation in the part of the year when there's too much traffic anyway. It's one very logical thing. So people driving all year long would have gone better, and those driving once would have gone worse, but in that case it's much more the ones driving once than the ones driving all year. That's right, we'd move a little bit of that burden, if it's a commendation of logical creativity, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92972	And the last replica of my colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92973	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bauk, I will also refer to these prices of yours and what you have spoken about the subsidies and prices of privileged tickets, so I will take advantage of this debate and the opportunity to call the government once again to abolish the payment of the bridge for the Krk Bridge which has been overpaid several times and which have paid both islanders and all of us citizens of the coastal-goran County who do not live on these islands and our guests and our tourists and if certain tunnels that have just been built are not charged, then I would like to use this opportunity once again to call the government to abolish that bridge that has already been overpaid and not only in winter months, but for a whole year, or permanent and forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92974	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92975	As far as the bridge is concerned, I think Croatia paid for it in 2015 and will never recover from it, but well. So you remember what that bridge used to be called? No, I don't. Here's why I wouldn't, I'd like to pay at least one kuna just because it was called that. So I'm kidding, I'm kidding. So I think it is necessary for the government to very rationally determine what will be paid, how much will be paid, why will be paid and who will pay that difference between the real cost of cost and what gets out of it. And I agree that the government needs to determine some ratio of whether it's just that the built tunnel is not charged, that the one that was built 60 years ago is charged or that the bridge that was built 60 years ago is charged. It's absolutely something to weigh and make the right decision, and I'm not sure that at this point it's justly distributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92976	Thank you. That's how we ended up with replicas before our colleague Linic, who's the fourth member of your 3b club as a minority? ... Thank you. Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're continuing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92977	I thank the chairman. I'd briefly repeat some of the things that have already been heard, but it's important. So the conference on island development was held in Opatija. On it were the mayor of our largest island, Mr... Mayor of Mali Losinj Ana Kučić and colleague Jurjako from Cres, so much so that one such important thing is said on land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At this point, we have 128,000 people living on the islands, if we went from house to house, it would certainly be half of it. Of the 1228 islands we have, 67 are only inhabited, only 15 islands have more than 1000 inhabitants. That's the problem. means depopulation. And what did we do? Did we do anything with this law? Some kind of shift? I don't see him. So very briefly and clearly, the law is spilling from hollow to empty. It is objective if we look at concrete legal provisions most often about political declarations, but not about legal norms. Of course, a lot of things must stand behind this law, it must come out of it in order to improve the situation on our islands but they cannot wait any longer. I can't wait six months. Not for a year. Unfortunately, again, I have to repeat the word we've been saying very often these past few days, yesterday the prime minister mentioned it, but that's the PR report. Guys, this PR isn't good. The rights that are citizens and inhabitants of the island will continue to exist under this law, so mostly nothing more and nothing less. Just some of the provisions have been finely reformed. For example, it is the right to drink water for islanders who do not have access to water. The applicable law regulates the right of islanders to be supplied by sea or land by sea, by boat, by water carrier or by tanker and to pay at regular price at a limit of 20 cubic metres per month or 150 cubic metres per year per household. The new law only changes the criteria of limitations. So, in addition to the above, the proposal for a new Law on Islands in some things also represents a setback in relation to the current situation, so the provisions on the right to purchase the Republic of Croatia should certainly be completed because they and in the existing law are bad but they must not now be improved at the expense of islanders and real estate owners. So, what are the real problems that need to be solved on the islands? First of all, it's still an unsolved property reality. In many of our islands, the issue of catastra has not been resolved to the end, and therefore land books are also the basic preconditions for economic development, legal certainty, therefore the assumption of a functional island economy. There is still a question of infrastructure that is still unsuitable in many islands and is under increasing pressure from tourism and tourist season. The fact is that our islands as well as coastal municipalities must build a infrastructure that is massive and meets the needs of only those two months of the main tourist season when the number of persons on the islands is sometimes in the 20st century. In the rest of the year, the self-preservation of the cold drive of such a bulky infrastructure is highly expensive and the burden of building maintenance as well as all the cost of moss is borne by the local population. The consequences, of course, are high utility bills. Furthermore, waste classification has been mentioned today. And we have to mention it again because taking it off the island is going to be more expensive. Simply transport costs of waste from the island are significantly higher than on land, and this central state must find some solution. Generally, it is long known that life on the island is more expensive than on land and there is also a phenomenon of the impact of tourism on the price of everyday products. The expressed seasonality of tourism and its massity affect the price increase and the question of how long our island population can bear it. It should be noted that the capital things that the state can do for our islands are not regulated by the Island Act at all. For example, by digitising a full public administration many islanders who are located on more isolated islands or parts of the island would finally become equal citizens of our country in access to the administration and their administrations could handle procedures mostly from home without having to take long and expensive trips to administrative centres. For example. Imagine these Pažanas from the top up, from above... He is already under Rab but those who must go to Zadar or Gospić to resolve such some of their demands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the energy policy on the islands, so at its session last week, the government rejected the Most Microsolar Law, which at least so far has slammed the door to mass production of electricity and sun that could have been expressed on our islands. So, in conclusion, the new Law on Islands will not bring a lot to the islanders, only here and there a few crumbs from the table, even such an unambitious law will not immediately come to life, but the whole thing will stretch to the adoption of a number of sublaws, plans, programs, etc. Some ideas from the law, such as the coordination of unique island projects and plans through island coordinators, have obviously found no purpose and have been condemned. Only the local population will have to bear the cost of paying new provisions if we choose such people at all. Instead, it is necessary to regulate the situation in catastro and land books to ensure that it is fully, reliable and accurate, digitise public administration so that the islanders as well as other citizens can access public services by electronic means, regulate the municipal infrastructure with the help of the central state and the EU funds, promote and enable the island's high degree of energy independence by producing energy from renewable sources at the site of consumption and develop a specific strategy for developing island tourism that cannot target mass. Mass tourism on islands produces inflation and raises costs and reduces the quality of life of our islanders. So if this law does not follow the relevant programmes and development plans with concrete measures, it will be just another legal document that will not have positive effects on the life of the island. What we haven't found is that we haven't found an example. A little more concrete about traditional fishing, a little more about minerals, excavations and mineral ore excavations than about real traditional fishing and that sort of thing. So it wasn't thinking the way the islanders think, but as defined in the law, it's actually said that the politics of life on the islands is being thought about by the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92978	Thank you. First replica, Comrade Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92979	Thank you very much. My colleagues, in this replica you said that this was a PR, one document, and they gave as much money as they advertised this paper. This is a declaration essentially, these are lists of some intention that we don't have, so these measures that the island's locals are expecting, islanders. Of course, in what you're saying when in all the measures that you've listed, from microsolares, energy, water supply problems that should be listed, cadastrian books, absolutely no indicator in this law is written. Not in any of these articles we have. But it's important because the minister didn't come here today, you see that she promoted it through the media, through various stands and deceived the public and the islanders to solve their problem. She's obviously only doing a rulebook where a singer will sing. Where Marco Perkovic Thompson will sing, it's her job and it's not, or any other singer. Her job isn't this. She obviously didn't show any interest in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92980	Thank you, thank you. The answer to the replica, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92981	Of course, life on the islands except for what I have stated does not exist without quality and available health care and schools. And what is the interest, so it could be, shows that one course is being done these days, which is entitled: “What if your first place is the place of an island doctor? ” There were 300 doctors in 25 places and only 25 of them were involved, participating at this time is now under way. It's just a talking interest. We must find strength as well as for life and quality of life and conditions that will be welcomed by both doctors and nurses on both islands and in all these areas that we will discuss today, mountain-mounted and those who are depressed. So until the state finds the mechanisms to keep both doctors and nurses there, and also for teachers, there the man with all these benefits and lines will not be able to live qualityly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92982	Thank you. The next replica of his colleague, Nicole Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92983	Dear colleagues, we have been warning from the very morning that this bill is very bad, that it brings nothing new to the islanders. The truth is that it's a clean PR, we know for ourselves how much money Minister Zalac gives the media certain means to promote her character and work but there are no real results. That's what the fact is. Also, all the proposals that come here from the Croatian Parliament that want to improve the position of not only islanders but all of our citizens are being rejected by the Croatian government. We have a law on microsolars that goes to make our citizens energy independent. And what we have from the government is that our proposal is being rejected. And isn't that exactly the goal of helping our mission here to help the islanders. However, there is no ear on the part of the government we only have such PR laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92984	Thank you, comrade Grmoy. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92985	Well, of course, because we counted today, and I'm glad that both right and left, and we're talking about what we should really talk about. I'm sorry that you left me no longer have any effect on the quality of the law. Because many of you are islanded as well from those areas we'll see if you've been able to influence these other laws that we're going to hear today because these laws are crucial today. We ourselves know what happens to Croatia, from which depopulation is present, the depopulation of Slavonia and all those areas where people can't get a job and leave due to poor living conditions and white plague has been present in the Gorski Kotar and on the islands for decades. And for decades, you who have been here so far in the House have been talking about it and still haven't solved the problem. It's the ship's transport lines. Maybe everybody's talking about it. Maybe it's one of the key problems. Problems for young people to come and send their children if there are no high schools back to the mainland, but also for young ones to visit their parents on the islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92986	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Jurič Branka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92987	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues of Strenja Linic, I don't know where you live or who you've been communicating with about this law. Since the second half of July, when it was passed, adopted by the Government, this law has been communicating with the mayors and mayors, and I have already highlighted it in my debate. So not only your political options, but also SDP. And no one has expressed their dissatisfaction with this law. That the regulation will make it more detailed that the budget needs to provide the funds, that's where we all agreed. But that it's such a disastrous law, I can't believe it. The task force included mayors and mayors. We now have representatives of the Association of Cities and municipalities at the Committee on Local Self-Government. We have an example. The movement of the island also says as members of the working group we have contributed to numerous improvements of the Island Act and we are extremely satisfied with the cooperation achieved etc.. All the articles go that way. And so I'm very surprised by your performance. And you should know that, for example. when you're talking about traditional fishing that it can't be in the island law because it's brought by the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92988	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92989	Well, it's quite expected that you will defend your law. So I live in a county where there's both a mountain cotter and islands. But the island is not just an island of Krk that faces the same depopulation because it has to start solving things. But you also have small islands of the type Susak and Lovik and everything, where young people don't come anymore, where you only have older people who live life where, if visited by their children, they have to spend thousands of kuna every time. That's what we're talking about. You should have done much better by this law to get people back to those islands. And the particular problem is what I haven't been able to stress yet is the problem of people working on islands. So they come from the mainland and work on the islands. We haven't talked about these people, these people are also doing well, and they pay all their contributions on that island, but they don't really have any rights now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92990	Thank you. Next replica of her colleague Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92991	Here's what I'm also joining this surprise because I don't think you know that prices of goods on the islands of some companies and some commercial houses actually don't differ from the price on the island and try to lower those prices rather than, for exactly why there's a way of subsiding indirectly both traders and entrepreneurs who are down there reported. Besides, it's so far, for example. Some municipalities had and bought fast ships so that they could transport their citizens for emergency interventions in the city because it was not possible to solve it otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92992	Thank you. Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92993	I don't know where you live, but when I go to the island, practically 30% more expensive, pizza and drink, coffee and everything you take. Have you thought only about some consummation that can have price uniforms, but I think those prices are also clear that they are, not 30%, but they are higher. What's a fact, it's that I expect from you and you should also answer how you will solve health care and what measures will be taken to ensure that the health care and schooling of children, those who actually need to stay and health means that is intended for these elderly patients, as will be resolved. And you already have islands in the Sibenik archipelago of 4 islands on which only funerals are held, but children are not born and how someone will come there and start living if there are not at least some basic conditions, and these conditions can only be done by a state that will prescribe some measures to keep teachers and doctors and nurses on those islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92994	Thank you, colleagues. The next replica of counterpart Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92995	Thank you very much. Comrade Stranger, I don't think there's any reason for this bile you're spilling. The visions of this conference that was in Opatija, they'd probably be calling someone from the Bridge, but you don't have any leaders, not the captain, not the mayor on the island, I mean, what are we supposed to do now? When you're talking about paying and maybe it's better if you don't talk about who needs what and how much he pays or pays, but we're talking about health care. Here I expect you to take the first concrete measure to tell this administration to implement how to address the issue of a family doctor on a small, less-inhabited island? Here's me. I said way, so tell me. So how do you solve it? But don't do this to us in health care, not just you, but everyone else, and I'll say it to the Minister of Health, we'll get a family doctor, a doctor of family medicine, and there'll be a specialization right away. And of course leave the island and we lose the doctor and we lose the infirmary. So there's space, but let's give concrete solutions, not to describe, let's say so much to pay for the municipalities, let's pay for the city, when we pay for tourist hospitals, we can pay for doctors, they're 15 for small islands, here's no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92996	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, comrades.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92997	It would take me a little bit more time to answer, it was a lot of aspects, but the last one was important. I came to visit Vrgorac, so we're not talking about islands now, and I told Commissioner Vrgorec you won't be able to keep your doctors and nurses, they're gone, if you don't get them anything. He's been telling me these days that he's building a five-bedroom building for nurses and doctors. It's an incentive of the local environment. There's no other way. And as for the island, look in Split-Dalmatia County, in fact, the largest number of commissioners are the independent commissioners we work with. I wasn't in Opatija because at that moment the Oil and the Third May were burning, and these were the key moments for my city and for my region, which is why I wasn't, but I read it. And I was sorry that it was in Opatija without being on Krk or Lošinj or on Brač where it would be quite different to approach and speak from the point of view of the islanders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92998	And the last replica of his colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u92999	Thank you, Vice President. Well, you've said well that the island law and the island law alone can improve the quality of people's lives on islands and keep people on islands because it has to be a systematic approach to government, all ministries and all state bodies because often the regional development ministries and through this law try to run something, but other ministries and state bodies do not monitor these activities and should certainly think about how life on the island allows and not just from tourism, but from agriculture. There are people who are interested in growing there and vineyards and olive groves and farming, but how will Vis deal with livestock when there are no veterinarians? That is why one systematic approach and the participation of all ministries is needed, because the goal is to have people on the island, and especially the old population, the lack of nursing homes, nobody talks about it, and the islands should be built, just as they should be built in Vinkovci and in Gunja, as well as on the island of Vis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93000	Thank you. Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93001	I thank my colleague. I'll just say what I think should have been defined by this law and what we really think is a list of priorities after talking to the island's commissioners. So the price of tickets, driving orders, travel rates, fleet quality, agriculture, so to make it easier to deal with agriculture because it can't only live on tourism, health care, stronger island autonomy, more concrete and firmer co-operation with local authorities that belong because Mulat and Iš belong, we know where they belong to a highly developed environment, but they actually have a problem, water and electricity, means how to calculate the allocation of water, road and basic communal infrastructure and safety, environmental and waste management, food supply, food prices, drinks, construction material is bigger and more difficult to obtain, etc., etc. This was one broad discussion among the commissioners, however, in some ways filtered as the biggest problems, unfortunately we did not get answers. I'm not sure if we're gonna make it through sublegals or regulations. It was supposed to be, however, this is a law that determines something after many years, one area needed more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93002	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, which is also the last one. It's a debate from my colleague, Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93003	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here's a little bit of an island debate. She should be far and stronger. Unfortunately, from these discussions today, I noticed that both HDZ and SDP agreed that there is a continuity of policy towards islands, and here is a colleague, Boris, mentioned it. But unfortunately, this continuity of politics towards the islands is obviously not good, and it is not only my conclusion, but what is the best indicator of it is that there is a continuity of eviction from the island, that more and more islands are left without inhabitants, that those who have the population are becoming smaller and smaller, that these inhabitants have increasingly poor living conditions. We know that food, water, transport connections, maritime transport are important on the island, and unfortunately today we still have ships that sail at the speed of the 19th century steamboats that connect the islands. Telecommunications, television programs, health care, education, means everything that we all need here in far more developed environments, that's what we need in the islands. What makes it impossible is a normal lack of money, but maybe it's not so much a lack of money as a bad policy being implemented. Well, there are eight units of local self-government coming from Brač. One island – 8 units of local self-government. I don't think that's necessary, that every island should have one unit of local self-government, that all this money spent by the administration that's unnecessary there should be rerouted to transport, I think the islanders would be free to drive for free, like my colleague Bauk here insinuated. The island of Murter, which in the morning when you have a coffee, you wear your shoes, and by lunch you can easily go around the edge, there are also two units of local self-government. And now I don't list islands in different sizes. I think we're wasting money on very irrelevant things. Medical care on islands, today when offering doctors to go to work in Ireland, Germany, whether or not they have done specialization or, for 5 thousand euros further, believe that they will choose mostly this way to organise their lives, rather than to go to some of the islands where these conditions are difficult for them, and also their responsibility for people living there and inability to help because we do not have enough capacity to transport in critical situations, I think they may always choose this way to get off the island and live in their own way. It's a business belt. What should certainly be declared, and what would likely contribute to the rest of life on the islands is an economic belt. All this bullying of small fishermen with mesh sizes, a ban on hunting for their needs, I think the same is one of the reasons why they're getting off the island and that tradition that the islanders certainly had for their own purposes is being choked and simply people don't have that possibility, and the sea is all around them. What do you do to make the islands live? It's not an easy question, and I don't think one of these little laws can handle it. I'm sorry that she's not the minister here today when it comes to the island law because it's one of the very important laws that applies to people who live in the Republic of Croatia in areas that are poorly populated and where we need to make every effort to make them live there, but not only to live but to have a normal life there on the islands. We're all full of the mouth of the island when it's season, we're talking about how the Adriatic pearls are, how it's our comparative advantage, and then when tourists leave, when the storm comes, those who stay there have physical problems for life, but also psychologically, since everything relaxes after a few months of intense life on the islands. Indeed, they are an advantage, here since I have worked in the Ministry of Tourism at the time, indeed they are a great advantage of the Republic of Croatia, they could bring a lot of good, a lot of new values created on the islands, but the politics of all these years has not recognized it and simply the islands have gone in a direction they shouldn't have, means that the population is leaving the islands. It may be easy to talk about islands when living in Zagreb, earning money in Zagreb, and it comes only over the summer to see how it is there. But I think this is a topic that should only be talked about by people who live on the island for a whole year, who also spend the winter trying out on an island because they're the only ones who have a real sense and they can probably work out the right solutions to these laws that would help the islands begin to settle again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93004	We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first one's a colleague of Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93005	My colleague, you mentioned Brač and the number of units of local self-government. Surely this government is not interested in decentralising the funds of this Law according to these local self-governments. Here, even before I was on the Committee, I informed about my law, even no one from the Ministry showed up to keep 50% of the funds to local self-government from selling state property. No one called from the Ministry for the first time. Well, here's a suggestion. Let's keep it in second reading. 100% of the sale of state property that is valuable and islands make huge profits in the tourist season in the state budget, but we forget about the islands. Make it 100%, keep it from selling state property to local self-government. But they don't care. The interest is from the head of local self-government on the islands to make addicts, that they depend on governments, not to develop their own ends on the island of their local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93006	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93007	Dear fellow Bull, you're right about decentralisation. For a long time, the HSS has been talking about real decentralisation, not about these crumbs given to local self-government units, but about real decentralisation where far most of the revenue will be created to local self-government units, and also about islands, and when the rights of true decentralisation are implemented which, unfortunately, the rulings have no desire, and perhaps not the strength to do so, when that decentralisation is implemented, I think that many of the problems of the island and the islanders should certainly not have and should not discuss them, but they should be able to solve their own problems in view of their incomes then. The revenues they now have are too small and simply they do not have the strength, and as far as the Croatian state or government that manages the state, it has no will to solve it, this is only cosmetics to cover the public's eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93008	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93009	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lenart, I agree with your observations in the discussion. I think there's one more thing or actually an undiscovered value in this law, at least for now, maybe it'll be fixed, so the potential for sustainable development of these islands. We need to know that our islands are indeed one wealth, you mentioned an economic belt that is very important, which would protect this marine fish fund, which could be far better managed in a sustainable way and with significantly stronger local communities. It was mentioned that the Microsolars Act that we discussed today was on the Committee on the Economy that was rejected, which could bring terrible potential for development, so development that does not destroy the potential for new generations... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93010	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93011	Comrade Dobrović, you mentioned this story about microsolars, i.e. on small renewable energy sources. We had these laws, we had a story about it, but unfortunately we exceeded wind power plants and everyone who would want to invest on solar cells for electricity production and which would be very good for islands because they have a large number of sunny days, that administrative obstacle to obtaining that quota of renewable energy subsidies is simply impossible to achieve. I'd like to put them on my own roof, but you know what the procedure is for that to happen. The moment everyone who wants to do it with their money or in any other way will finance it and the Croatian state will say that, you build it, believe that full roofs will be that and then our electrical dependence of the island will be far less and the less pressure will be in the season than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93012	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93013	Thank you very much. Dear counterparts, so you have well detected the problem of territorial structure which is congested in Croatia, so one Austria with 10 million inhabitants has 83 municipalities and 15 cities, Croatia with 4 million inhabitants has 428 municipalities and 128 cities, so it is not completely managed rationally. Here we saw the situation on an island the other day that they had to close the kindergarten because the municipality doesn't have the resources to finance it, that the municipalities are off the Internet and the phone and makes it actually the sole purpose of these powerful municipalities, you mentioned in Brač there are as many as 8, just so HDZ can enlist its personnel who, like some small sheriffs, could draw budget money like the Lopar case on the island of Rab. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93014	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93015	Well, my colleague Bunjac, here you have mentioned the word infatuation, I think it is one of the major Croatian problems with corruption that is happening and we see in all the research Europeans that we are highly corrupt. One of the parts of corruption is just as art, these people mostly know how to come by their uncles or I don't know who or how to by some party card, but unfortunately many of them don't know how to do their job. It's good for the state if some people have come to do their job well but there are a lot of people who don't know how to do the job, I know a cartoon saying that there are about 3,000 people in the Ministry of Agriculture, that at least half of them think that the cow is purple as it is on the Milka commercial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93016	Thank you. We're continuing now with finals on behalf of the MPs' club, first call from colleague Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93017	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, on a very important law we have completed the debate, unfortunately there was no minister here, the fact that when we talk about real life islanders that it is visible that this law was written from Zagreb and that it has nothing to do with the people of the island. It can be seen from a number of examples, for example. The Sibenik archipelago has four islands where people live. We just have funerals, we don't have children. If better organized transport lines, shipping lines, more frequent lines, young people like to live here on our islands, surely that's where people live, to ensure the conditions of health, school workers, educators, there would certainly be life there. Unfortunately, there is no life here. Unfortunately, in many islands there are more local self-government than residents, more local self-government leaders than the total population. And we make proposals at the MOST club, except for the protection of fishermen, exclusive economic belts, microsolars that solve the problem of energy and better life on these islands. I'm making a proposal today on the board that nobody showed up from the ministry for the first time, that 50% of the assets from the sale of state property remain with the units of local self-government. No one came for the first time the board president was Mr. Kosor said no representative of the state property ministry came. And today there is no minister. This tells you that here, MPs and parliament simply demeans them, above all, President Jandrokovic, who is subject and who has left absolute power to the Prime Minister, which is not good. This is Parliament and the executive power here must respect. Not only do they not answer the questions we ask as representatives but they do not come to committees, to our legal initiatives to be seen. This is the current situation that this Parliament has taken over the dictatorship of Andrej Plenkovic and his statement, which it says, it is important for you fellow island leaders to be their addicts. But now that you're in HDZ, it's easier for you because you have to take pictures behind him and he has to order you to vote. But what if the government changed? That you're doing it in the interest of the future. Here is no question that he's making you addicts, that you're crying over him, that the pre-election time is coming, that he's given this island some amount. Choose yourself for the independence of the decision of the islanders, as well as in art. 17. No one should be from the island area in this island council, no one. Read the article. 17. You haven't read the law, and you're from the island. I'd like to ask you, he's a nervous colleague, Boric. The mayor of the municipality from the island area has arrived He was ordered by a minister who is currently a resorient minister, who is now writing a rule where Marko Perković Thompson will sing, who is less interested in this law which she spent in a lot of money on the PR of this Law. [[Here, I really ask you, don't throw the speaker away, here. Please even nice, here.]] I'm curious, I'm going to ask a representative question, how much money is invested for the PR, how much it invests, and it's not in such important laws, and it's behind us and the Law on mountainous areas and underdeveloped areas, assisted areas. Once again, very important things have been brought out here. Tell the minister that it would be his turn to come here in front of the MPs, but when he dances with Plenkovic, a shock wheel, and no one comes near them from politics. So here's the problem countless times. We have the economic belt we gave for the protection of fishermen, we have a problem where on the Pag sortery, where they do the waste sorting, i.e.. The loading station on Pag, where people deal with livestock, the production of Pag cheese. This is a huge problem, we encourage our fishermen, we protect our economic belt, we wake up a sovereign state, let's not go kneeling, let's not listen to students and their godmothers from those who have located, arrested, transferred and those who opposed the economic belt in order to enlist European officials to create a European career, our own personal career, but to protect Croatian fishermen,... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93018	Thank you. Here's my colleague, Boris, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93019	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's what I want to say for the end because the fact is that you try It seems to me that since morning, there's been one attempt to devalue the value of this law, I'm thinking of completely missed topics and platforms that have gone clear somewhere in the Most, but that's a bad thing. [[I'm begging you, okay? My colleagues and colleagues. Thank you. It's good.]] There was nothing concrete about it except showing an offended attitude that you were not called to a conference that, by the way, organised a daily paper, not a ministry. And I just don't know what's up with the government. As far as these untruths are concerned, there is no life on the Sibenik islands, on Zlarin this year for the first time in seven first-times, last year one. All in all, eight. He's got a life, and he needs to be looked after. That's exactly what we were saying on those small and less populated islands, and this particular administration here has been tasked with doing everything to make life there. It's not a big island problem anymore. This may have been 20 years ago, but the level of State aid must be continued in order for islands to return what has been invested in them, and I think that the last 10 years have certainly begun because I have cited figures clearly, verified, which means only improving the maritime system by ships, new ports and a total increase of passengers carried only a few years for nearly 2.5 million passengers and nearly 500 thousand vehicles. What did we hear from the proposal? Very little. We heard something about microsolars. For your gentlemen's knowledge, on the islands are roofs full of microsolars, but for their own use, not for sale. Why can't we sell? Because a government has previously spent all the total capacities available, which does not mean that the first two photovoltaic power plants will not start on the islands. The first one goes to the island of Cres, very large. I think the next one will be on Rab Island. There are no obstacles to the construction of microsolars, but to the use of them. As far as the territorial structure is concerned, I understand the need for parties that don't have local leaders or have very few to lift everything. I understand that. But judging Brach that he has eight local self-governments, that it's a mistake. Why don't you say a measure in the MOST that you proposed through the reform, your public administration reform that you will reward every mayor and mayor who will abolish his municipality or city, attach it to another and give him 6+6 benefits for it. What kind of suggestion is that? It is primarily a lack of knowledge of legal proposals or legal regulations. It is known who founded it, and who abolishes the municipalities and cities. It's certainly not the captain and it's certainly not the mayor, gentlemen of the Most. So a little bit better to prepare, this was a very valuable topic to discuss it in quality and we had a lot to do, I hope they wrote down what was good to correct until the second reading. This government certainly hears about all the spaces of the Republic of Croatia and the first session ever of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on one island will be at the end of 10 months this year, whatever you think about it in MOST. It's quite an indicator of how much he wants to take care of that space. And I'm telling you, continue with your policy of undoing everything that he wants to do well, and then gentlemen, the election goes on, just so that this one of yours can call it the survival movement, is that how it works, that it doesn't turn into a movement of disappearance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93020	Thank you very much. We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, first picked up by a respected representative, Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93021	Dear Chairman, my colleague Boris injured Article 33 and the chairman was not you, but he was your previous colleague vice president, where he was always relying on MOST here, saying that we weren't on the islands, we weren't familiar, I went to Pag and you didn't come here to throw the waste. Therefore, I went alone, not to be called upon, only the people called me. You have a problem here with a colleague, Boric, and the president has not given you a warning, they have one problem...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93022	.../Intruder Reiner: colleague Bulj, thank you./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93023	...that you have more council chiefs...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93024	.../Intruder Reiner: You have exhausted your time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93025	...but the people...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93026	.../Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Bulj, you can't speak any further./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93027	That's one of your bigger problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93028	.../Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Bulj, please./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93029	And no birth, but children die, or the old die, and children are not born.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93030	Comrade Bull, I give you a warning. Here you go, comrade Grumo. And of course, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93031	It was, there were injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Article 33, you injured the Rules of Procedure because as chairman, you did not respond to the presentation of fellow Boric, who had been exposed to the Most, his experience of the Most, the talk of what the Most, which shows that he was very nervous. All the time he's been working on MOST, he likes to mention me obviously that we're shooting at the right target, so it's obvious that we're shooting at the target, that I'm suggesting that this government is doing nothing and that it's an ugly public administration reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93032	.../Intruder Reiner: Thank you, colleague Grumoja./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93033	And that it was left at the Department of Management's action plan worth...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93034	.../Intruder Reiner: You've exceeded your time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93035	... 880 million kuna, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93036	I'm giving you a warning too, and secondly, I wasn't here. According to what you're saying, no one should say anything here because everyone's referring to...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93037	... [[I don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93038	...possibly someone else agreeing or not agreeing with him, which would make it a violation of the Rules of Procedure unless he insulted someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93039	.../Intruder Bulj: He was supposed to talk about islands./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93040	Okay, we solved that thing, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93041	... [[I'm not sure what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93042	.../Intruder Bulj: He was supposed to talk about islands./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93043	Comrade Grmoy, I warn you if you abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure now, I will give you a warning again, a second warning. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93044	... [[I'm not sure what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93045	It's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure that you ask me what article is injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93046	Article 33 has been injured. You, as chairman, did not react to the fact that Boric did not speak at all about this law that we are discussing here today, which we are talking about, but referred to what MOST is doing and what we are proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93047	This way, I haven't held a session as well as you know, therefore, no injured Rules of Procedure and you know it. I won't give you another warning, but please don't abuse that institution. Comrade Bull and I warn you, you're risking a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93048	... [[I don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93049	I'm just warning you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93050	How could you warn me when you were not there, and you do not know what happened, what man said?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93051	I know you've exceeded 40 seconds of your time, for example. All right, now, finally, on behalf of the proposings, the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Development and EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93052	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here at the end of this truly comprehensive debate and discussion, I would just like to say at the beginning, so why today is not our resolution minister. Mrs. Gabriela Zhalac is in Slavonia today for the reason that she was four months ago. The almost agreed visit by the Commissioner of the European Commission for Regional Policy, Ms Corina Cretu, and therefore simply with all insistence, could not be with us. Otherwise, the information works, so it is absolutely and very intensively and actively participated in all working groups, meetings or meetings of the island council. Here I was yesterday on one of those, so she was personally on the same where she listened to of course opinions, thinking, suggestions, suggestions from members of the island council where, as we have heard today, there have been many suggestions over the past months and almost everyone has respected themselves. I can conclude that because I heard it from the mouth of representatives and local and regional levels of resolution ministries participating in this island council, the academic community, civil society organisations, so there are indeed a number of proposals and they are all, as such, all included in the proposal for this law. Also, of course, this is the first reading of a bill that is not expected to be ideal material, but I can say that it has been put into it regardless of how critical it is here, a lot of effort, a lot of effort. The fact is that in the past, so in the past 20 years, it means how long since 1999 we have the first island law, that some additional measures have been introduced, and as Mr. Shucker's representative said, so the islands have lived, of course it's not 100% resuscitation, but certain trends have changed which of course makes us happy and therefore goes with this law which is no PR but is really a need expressed by the islanders. A number of new things, with the retention of all existing measures and the promotion of some of which I spoke about in the opening statement directly affecting the life of the islanders, or the island population, have certainly so far shown significant results and what is equally important to say, indeed the state as a state, or government as to be more precise about the islands, I am not sure whether it is said here today, perhaps it is. So in 2017, a total of EUR 1.7 billion was invested in the area of these 1244 islands, islets, cliffs and reefs. So when I talk about this government, that's clearly what it says about the orientation of this government of the Republic of Croatia, so it's really regionally developing all its segments. So you know that during the term of this government, meetings outside of Zagreb are held regularly, meetings and meetings with representatives, both regional self-government and local self-government are held so that we have heard today, the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be held for the first time in Hvar in a little over a month, 26.10. where, I am sure, many, concrete life problems that have not been solved on the islands so far, including, of course, numerous real estate problems, i.e. land, etc. So here we heard from you, the debate was very content, we heard some useful suggestions, really useful suggestions that we will of course fix, and by the second reading we will certainly improve them. I believe that as far as the final bill itself is concerned, we will be given more quality material and I expect an even more high-quality debate in this final draft of the law. But unfortunately, I must personally say that I expected a little more concrete examples that you expect as MPs to be in this law, but that's all normal. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93053	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93054	Thank you very much. Well, sir... when you said that you were expecting concrete proposals, I would ask you to respond specifically to at least some of them, and I have been very specific and asked that, based on the requirements that were on the sidelines of this conference mentioned several times in Opatija, at numerous meetings with representatives who are different political options, the city of Krk, Cres, Lošinj, the Primorje-Gorski County, that the problem of alochton, indigenous and invasive savages be resolved in a different way, and not as you have suggested and completely changed the original text as proposed on this problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I ask you a concrete answer whether you are able to change it or you have remained firm to ruin everything about sheepmaking, for example. on the island of Cres, Krk and Mali Losinj?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93055	The answer of the esteemed secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93056	I forgot to mention it, so we haven't given up on it, but here's a fellow assistant minister who's right in the board of the islands telling me that we're going to continue our talks next week with the competent resorts and the Ministry of Agriculture, and I'm sure by the end of the bill we'll have, I'd say, a better framework because I agree that this is a big problem and I've heard it from many fellow mayors and mayors from the island.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93057	Next replica of respected MPs, Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93058	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Obviously, you're dissatisfied with the debate that was in the House, so that's how you needed to say it from the pay phone, but there's something very specific. So, in principle, you've talked about the problem of solving property legal relations, which is better said catastrus and grantovnica. When you compare a cadastre that is current and with ortho photos of our islands, then about half the island and half the houses are located in the sea when you compare maps. And something that would be expected to be the provision of this law to be a priority solution to the island, or the situation in the islands of construction areas. Because what we have a chance to see from the basis of a valid cataster law, that when measured, measurements last for 2, 3 years, and all the time, the entire islands are actually measured. And what should be done for construction areas is that such a provision in this law would be quite fine because in that way, a special regulation regarding it should be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93059	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93060	I appreciate the question. So I wasn't just thinking about solving land cadastrian books, but I was thinking about those properties that have been tortured for many years, both by municipalities and cities that will certainly be solved according to all the other government sessions that have been going on over the past months. And this is certainly one of the priorities and one really, as I would say, the strategic goal that the islands must achieve, so here I said that the debate was in good work and constructive, but that of course there could have been a little more concrete things, but good. We expect that, in agreement with our state geodetic administration, with the resolution ministry, our ministry, we will create a quality framework, that local self-government units, regional self-government and that we will indeed solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93061	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93062	Proposal for an island law, first reading, P.Z. No. 413., the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for an island law is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 94 are for, 28 abstentions, the conclusion as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93063	That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Now I would suggest that we unite the next two points as a debate. That's what we were talking about before. Do you agree with that? You agree. No one's against it. Okay, thank you. So we will unite and discuss together the - Proposal for a Law on Supported Areas, first reading, P.Z. No. 410 - Proposal for a Law on hill and mountain areas, first reading, P.Z. No. 412 The proposal of both the Government of the Republic of Croatia is based on Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Fund Velimir Zunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93064	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Since we have therefore united these two points, I will first refer to the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, then to the Law on assisted areas, so that there may be no cohesion. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2016-2020 programme in the part relating to the promotion of the even regional development of all regions, which is defined in Chapter 8, provides for the creation of a new Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Regional Development Funds, as the holder of regional development policy, has joined the creation of a new Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. The problems of mountain-mounted areas have so far been regulated under the legislation passed in 2002, which had 7 changes and additions in the meantime. That law... The current law included 45 units of local self-government which were distributed to 11 counties in the mountain-mounted areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mountain-mounted areas, not a secret, are seriously faced with a number of economic, social challenges and this is further expressed because of therefore existing geomorphological characteristics and difficult climate conditions. The problem of depopulation, mountain-mounted areas and all of these economic and social problems is recognised, of course, depending on the specificities of mountain-mountan areas, so they are not all the same but similar problems shared. The problems faced by local self-government units with the status of mountain-mounted areas are, above all, made it difficult to make public services available and to carry out public services, to continue eviction of the population, to weaken the fundamental infrastructure base and unfavourable trends in economic growth. Therefore, the aim of this law is to provide a basis for strengthening competitiveness and achieving its own development potential in mountain-mounted areas. So this law, it's a legal framework that unites the matter of mountain-mounted areas and regulates other specific regulations. What we want to put emphasis on with this law is therefore on the specificities of certain microlocations and in some way encourage the activation of all stakeholders in joint work for the well-being of mountain-mounted areas and the creation of assumptions for their economic recovery. Therefore, this draft proposal for a Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas is prescribed to introduce a programme for the development of mountain and mountainous areas, which will therefore establish concrete measures and projects and projects and encourage the development of mountainous and mountainous areas, the holders of their implementation, the implementation of their activities, the audit of the funds and the methodology for monitoring the implementation and evaluation of individual measures. Then the Mountain and Mountain Areas Fund is introduced to finance programmes and projects to promote the development of mountainous mountainous areas, infrastructure and other projects that contribute and contribute to improving the quality of life of the inhabitants, depending on their needs and specificities. A Croatian mountain product aimed at promoting production and placement and promoting the original and innovative products of these areas is being introduced, so we want to provide professional and financial assistance and support for the long-term objective of retaining and promoting production in the local area, self-employment and recognition of the quality of the local region. Specific project selection criteria are also introduced and support for projects in mountain and mountainous areas to which implementation is planned to use the European Structural and Investment Funds. Green and sustainable public procurement criteria are also introduced with the aim of reducing resource consumption, environmental pollution, strengthening of the original domestic product. So this law also redefined between other provisions and the scope of mountainous and mountainous areas. Therefore, the units of local self-government that would be given and acquired the status of mountain-mounted areas would be classified according to their geographical features, natural and other specificities such as geomorphological criteria, climate characteristics, of course altitude, slopes, etc., demographic features, infrastructure characteristics. So, according to the development index, which is therefore by law, a special law governing regulated development would also be in three groups. The first group would consist of units of local self-government that would acquire the status of mountain-mounted areas and would be classified as assisted areas, the second group would be groups of 1-4, the second group would be units of local self-government that would acquire the status of mountain-mounted areas and now have status, so in the third and fourth quarters above the average level, so these would be the current 5th and 6th groups. The third group of mountainous and mountainous areas would also form units of local self-government, which would result in the status of mountainous and mountainous areas and were thus classified in the first and second quarters above the average rankings, i.e. so on. Group 7 and 8 according to the development index. Therefore, the status of the mountain-mountan area of this bill could not be achieved by the units covered by a special regulation governing the development of the island, so according to the Island Act, which therefore extends along the seashore by their territory and has a population density greater than 20 inhabitants per km square. So certain funds are, of course, planned in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the division of the Ministry of Regional Development, on activities called the development of mountain-mounted areas. This is therefore also the amount of 20 million kuna in the estimated amount for both 2019 and 2020. Of course, in all these activities and other central authorities of the state administration, when planning measures and programmes for the development of the administrative area of their competence, of course depending on the nature of the measures and on the available financial resources, they will also plan the necessary resources within their budgets and will take account of the impact of each measure on the development of the mountainous and mountainous areas. Here would be the part about the meaning of mountain-mounted areas and a few minutes about the proposal for a law on assisted areas. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2016-2020 programme, which therefore speaks or defines the promotion of a balanced regional development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, provides for the creation of a specific Law on Supported Areas. Of course, on the basis of this, the Ministry of Regional Development set out the draft draft law and developed this draft Law on Supported Areas. So far, the problem of assisted areas has been addressed by the Regional Development Act in which they are defined as areas of the Republic of Croatia which are lagging behind national average based on the development index and whose development needs to be further encouraged. As you know, by decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the classification of units of local and regional self-government according to the degree of development of the status of assisted areas, 304 cities and municipalities and 55% of local self-government units of 556, 304 have been classified as assisted areas. A large number, unfortunately, but this is a state which, of course, requires both certain measures and new laws and new funds financially etc. The aim of the Law is therefore to ensure in these areas, which we call aided, the basis for strengthening competitiveness, also achieving the own development potential of all these areas and, of course, the most targeted economy, and social and demographic difficulties. So, this Law is a legal framework that unites the matter of assisted areas, and it wants to put emphasis on the very specificities that plague all these areas in order to stimulate their economic recovery, which is a prerequisite for preventing further eviction of the population and reducing negative demographic trends. The key measures to be encouraged are, of course, measures concerning, therefore, economic measures, social measures, demographic measures, housing measures, and measures to strengthen administrative capacity. This Law introduces a programme of sustainable social and economic development of assisted areas which, as in the years so far, but through other instruments, we will continue to try to develop these areas through concrete measures and projects to encourage assisted areas. Of course, they must be known and that programme will also define implementation, implementation, monitoring methodology and evaluation of individual measures. There is also a fund for assisted areas from which infrastructure projects will be financed, and other projects that contribute to the development of assisted areas and programmes intended exclusively for local self-government units in the area we call aided. Specific project selection criteria are also introduced, as well as project support in assisted areas for which implementation is planned to use European funds, hence any structural, investment and all other sources. The principle of sustainable production and consumption is therefore planned, i.e. by encouraging the use of green and sustainable criteria in public procurement procedures. It is then introduced the right to cash compensation from ticket sales for visiting a protected area that can be achieved by units of local self-government for assisted areas and those located in the last quarter above the average-ranked units of local self-government, so on. Group 5, which have a protected area in their area. Then, it will also be planned as one of the measures being introduced, thus encouraging the employment of persons of those professions that contribute to improving the quality of life in assisted areas and therefore also introduce certain tax reliefs for assisted areas, so taxpayers carrying out independent activity in assisted areas can exercise the right to support small value in accordance with the Income Tax Act and the Profit Tax Act. So, as you have probably noticed, all the key elements are listed, but the emphasis of the Law is on the programme of sustainable social and economic development of assisted areas. It therefore unites all activities in assisted areas stemming both from this Law and from regulations governing both the economy and social and demographic policies, housing and strengthening administrative capacity. Of course, what we are planning is for all key stakeholders to contribute to their development, since they best recognise whether they are from local, regional, national, academic level, so it will be those who will participate in the preparation and development of this programme. As regards financial resources, funds are planned in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia at the level of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds under an activity called the Development of Supported Areas for 2019 in the estimated amount of 85 million kuna and also for 2020, which is a significant increase compared to 2018 and the current year. Of course, the other central authorities of the state administration for the measures and development programmes will plan exactly the necessary resources within their budgets and will take into account the impact of each individual measure on the development of assisted areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93065	Thank you very much. We have quite a series of replicas on your exhibit. Let's get in line. The first was a respected representative, Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, let's say, unlike the previous Law, which has also been said to be lacking in many concrete measures, the problem of both the laws that you present to us now, the Law on the Mountain and the assisted areas is that they are completely, in general, undefined and all comes down to implementation through the development programme and the sublegal acts that are yet to be passed. Therefore, concrete measures and activities remain to promote the development of local self-government units with mountain-mounted status. Everything that should contribute to economic and development we don't actually see. You've left out a lot. Here, tell us why you left out of the first version of a mountain card which, for example, should have allowed everyone with a residence in the mountainous and mountainous area to have the right to a ticket for the purpose of exercising rights and privileges in a public transport system that was one concrete measure, and in the meantime you threw out that concrete measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93067	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93068	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, that you are right, these are new laws, the Law on Islands is therefore a law which was originally passed in 1999, so it has been practically developing for 20 years, improving, improving and making much more concrete measures in it because they are therefore more life-saving. These are new laws where we just need meaning in some way to recognize everything that is crucial and we know that the problems are already now. So what matters is that the whole set of laws, especially when we talk about tax reform, has already been passed, so it was direct assistance to local self-government units. Of course, they are not citizens, they are units of local self-government, because many units, especially those related to therefore assisted areas and mountainous areas, are the ones who really felt it and felt it that way. And as far as we're concerned, we expect to hear something concrete in this debate as well. Of course this is the first reading, there will be opportunities to say it. As far as Excuse me. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93069	The next replica of the respected Velligai representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93070	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected state secretary with associates. I have to reach out to my colleague Jovanovic and agree with him that unfortunately there is a very general law ahead of us. I expected much more after these long-term discussions that were about these long-term discussions that were about this law, the session of working bodies, various thematic sessions that we held in the Croatian Parliament. And I expected a law with concrete measures, and I expected a law that would determine the scope of an area that would enter the mountainous and mountainous areas, and I expected these clear criteria that they would give, clear criteria that would be defined to cover these areas. Unfortunately, all this and much more has not been done in the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. And I have to say that people living in these areas, and unfortunately they're all less and less expecting concrete measures from us. I believe until the second reading, at least we can fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93071	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93072	I thank you for asking, Your Honor. Like I said, this is the first law reading, parallel work on other activities. So, we couldn't unfortunately put ourselves in the Proposal for a Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, so some of the knowledge that we know now because we've done certain studies, so we have one far more professional basis now, so in terms of analysis and indicators as to specific mountain and mountain areas, so that it will certainly be included in that final version where it will certainly feel then more quality to say the content of this law. I know that the problem is very life-threatening, and that is the purpose of this law, that through the measures it will take, through everything we agree, or implement to improve the area that is in trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93073	Thank you. And the next replica is Djujic's respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93074	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm interested in your efforts to make this bill on mountain-mounted areas. So this law was announced by your government two years ago. And what do we get after all these debates, round tables in the Parliament, public debates? We get five pages with 30 articles of nothing. This is a promotional law that serves you, or your government, just so you can tell, we've passed the Law on hilly areas. You didn't do anything. Not to say you haven't contacted the representatives of the municipalities at all. So in the area of Gorski Kotar you only spoke to representatives of the cities of Delnica, Chabra and Vrbovski. You haven't contacted any of the municipalities, or any of the commissioners, to ask their opinion. I'll talk a little bit more in an individual debate but this is nothing and this is a shame at all to call the law. There is not a single concrete measure. And yet you have deceived people who live in these areas because all these measures you make by regulation can be changed from year to year. So this is one missing story.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93075	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Matjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I've raised two replicas because it's two laws, so this first replica is from the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. In fact, I agree with my colleagues who have found that this law is difficult to call a law since this is a more set of principles and a set of certain orientations that can be positive, but this is difficult to call a quality, content law. However, in such a proposal, where there are certain guidelines, there are guidelines that are wrong and that are wrong. Therefore, Article 7(2) sets out the status of belonging to mountainous and mountainous areas at the level of units of local self-government. The hills and mountains, or way of life, cannot be arranged by administrative borders. This plastic means, we'll say very concretely that the town of Ozalj that stretches 200km square maybe in 5% of its territory is mountain-mounted and that's exactly the area of Žumberka. There we have one of the biggest Croatian mountains that is St. Gera. But on the basis of this, Ozalj will not be a mountain-mounted area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93077	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93078	I appreciate the question. So I can only say as far as the mountain-mounted areas are concerned, so there will really be a thorough analysis, and there will be a lot of opportunities to exchange experiences, to suggest, to relocate. What's crucial is that these are some kind of financial frameworks. I note, these are new laws, I can't go with hundreds of millions of kunas right now, so as such, because we don't want to act, I would say irrationally. The fact is they need help right now, it's detected. So many of them are actually assisted areas. So it's not just a unique story. So they'll be covered by both law and law, and I think that's really going to be help.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93079	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93080	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So a united discussion of two laws. In Croatia we have 556 units of local self-government. At 304, according to the secretary of state, there is therefore a law on assisted areas, although tomorrow we have a law on housing in assisted areas, which states that 336 units are local self-government, so it would be convenient for you to coordinate with each other that we know exactly what it is. So we have a remainder of 252, or 220 units of local self-government. If you are passing a law, or if you are in a proposal for a law on hill-mounted areas, you should know essentially how many units of local self-government, how many units of local self-government will be concerned. So the aided go according to their own criteria, hill-mounted by their own criteria, so it would be convenient to know what this would apply to. And we don't know that. The question is, when will we know?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93081	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93082	So 304 units are assisted areas, 336 will be for housing because there are certain units where certain projects are to start, so that's the only difference. 304 is definitely a number. And the mountain and mountain areas, therefore, will certainly include them in the final version of the law, because only a few days ago we had a final presentation about the study, so in the final version we will have all these elements and all these criteria and scopes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93083	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93084	Thank you very much. Here are two laws that you have said very important, mountain-mounted and assisted areas. You predict 20 million kunas for the hill and 80 million kuna for the assisted areas. So about 400 units of local self-government means 80% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia you plan this law 100 million kuna. You've given more to promote this law which is essentially nothing, empty paper. There's no measure here. who have advantages, entrepreneurs, people expect jobs in those parts. As for education, health care, as far as all roads are concerned, there is no measure here. This is just an ordinary pamphlet that's turned into some kind of law, no measure, no energy, no microsolars, as these people in these areas use energy. These areas remain only an exploitation field and those who come to eat and drink, and people pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93085	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93086	I appreciate the question. So these laws, these measures, i.e. these proposals are not separate islands, they are combined with tax reform, so for your information in 2018, exactly supported areas of tax reform, i.e. from a new way of distribution of income tax along with mountainous mountainous areas of nearly half a billion kuna in local budgets, so I think it is also a very significant measure that this government has taken. And as for traffic and everyone else, so this is just the divisions of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, other ministries, so we don't get into what traffic is going to do, it's neither the place, nor the time and all the other resolutions that are going to invest, invest, build and do something in areas that we call assisted areas. There is also the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem where it is also planned, thanks to the European Funds, which we also use as sources in many investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93087	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93088	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Seven times this law has changed since 2002, worse and worse every time. We have done an analysis of how we were taken away from the money in the latest changes that took effect on 1.1.2015. Cumulatively, cities and municipalities have not lost, but our citizens, or 200 000 Croats living in the most vulnerable area of Croatia. It lost 155 million kunas of income tax on various changes annually. We were expecting a really reform turn, but if it's a reform turn, that you're giving us 20 million kunas now and we're going to recover the economy in our area, I invite you to come to Vrgorac for 7 days to see how people live and go to Gorski Kotar, go to Lika, go to Zagorje and return to this Assembly and tell us about 20 million kunas of help. So we were literally begging before Minister of Finance in 2015, '16, '17. on rebalances they got 10 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93089	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93090	So I'll repeat the meaning. This measure of course isn't enough, it's only the beginning, it's more than it was this year, it's more than last year, but in synergy with the measures concerning tax reform, so specifically mountainous mountain areas will get about 35 million kuna more in this year, so by this division, in the last year. But I said along with the aided how much it amounts. We're talking over 500 million kunas that local self-government units will get available, and they're here to help their citizens in some way, to create conditions for a better quality of life, to make the standard of life bigger, to invest in what they lack, and these are all infrastructures... are social, cultural, sports, fire and other infrastructures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course it's not enough, but I'm saying, it's a new law, it's moving with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93091	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93092	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State in Article 7 there is a definition of a mountainous mountainous area which is quite general, which does not say much. As of this morning, I've had a few questions that have just referred to the Commissioner's question in the area who have asked well whether we are now in the mountainous mountainous area or not? I didn't know how to answer them, so I'm asking you to help me, or do you think it wasn't, do you think you shouldn't have at least entered into that general definition at least the part relating to the average altitude or slope? I just want to know what you think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93093	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93094	I thank you for asking, Your Honor. So I wouldn't say about the past, I just know that this really is a very, very high-quality study made, really many criteria were seen, it's not just an area of altitude, it's a slope, it's not just a matter of climate, it's a number of snow days, it's a number of rainy days, it's a number of rainfalls, it's also demographic elements, it's a proportion of the ageing population, then the proximity or existence we're going to say the number of schools that parent countries, as well as the number of infirmarys. So it was all seen to somehow get a composite index that would certainly give a very clear picture of whether or not an area deserves to be in an area called mountainous and mountainous areas. So, of course, many would like to, but I note that the vast majority of mountainous areas are also assisted areas so that there will be overlaps, that they will in some ways be able to actually have a double benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93095	The next replica is...... Let's not get out of the bench. [[I don't understand.]] You've set up a replica, you've got an answer, satisfying or unsatisfactory, but not from the bench, right? Now the replica, an opportunity for the replica, will be given to a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93096	Your Honor, Vice President. Now, after this move and the confusion of the secretary of state, it's clear why the minister isn't here today with us. So we have a law here that we don't even know what this index looks like, so we don't know what it's going to be, which is going to be, so we have a clean law right here in front of us, and what this law is ultimately going to be for every single city and municipality, we don't know because we don't know at all what category that community or city is going to be in, so there's no point in discussing here today, and now it's clear why the minister didn't come here. And the amounts that colleagues carried out, they're more involved in the team, I'm here, now I've heard for the first time that it's from 80% of Croatia's territory and that you've predicted 100 million kunas. If that's some kind of measure you want to help with the areas, then it's really embarrassing and ridiculous.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93097	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93098	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here I think that this is one good basis for discussion, and it's predicted a few criteria, and it's clear that everyone will advocate the criteria best suited to its environment, where the higher unemployment will be called to that criterion, where the worse demographic image is, will be called to that one, and if it's my question, here I would suggest that the basic criterion be the average original income per capita. It is not the same whether you have 500 kuna in the budget per capita or in 2000, of course, who has 2,000 kuna per capita can also co-finance with a higher percentage of kindergartens and scholarships and better maintenance of public areas and everything else. So I think this is a good foundation, that we need to discuss this well and that the key criterion is just income per capita, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93099	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, respected president of the EU Regional Development Committee and Funds, Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93100	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, assistant minister. The Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds also held a joint discussion on the Law on Supported Areas and the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas on the property of the home working body and concluded that both laws or any objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate are made to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft of the law and is obliged to supplement the text to the exact criteria as well as the activities and concrete measures to assist those areas. Before these laws go to second reading to the government, the thematic session of the board will also be organised.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93101	Thank you very much. I would now open the debate and the first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the respected representative Davor Loncar. He will share time with MP Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93102	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. As far as the proposal for a Law on Supported Areas has been concerned, several amendments have been made since '96. which have always brought and referred to the even development of the Republic of Croatia. However, it was never possible to implement the same completely from a number of circumstances and all for the diversity of areas that were under occupation or along the lines of separation during the Homeland War. There have been and there are still major damages that are being reduced organised, but this requires a process that will last for a long time to invest along with everything in order for our areas to achieve approximate equality in the overall cycle of even development of the Republic of Croatia. Through various support, however, it was not possible to start up with the restoration of housing and economic development, because the population was exiled and it was also an older and younger population that was unable to create new values that would encourage the creation of new jobs and thus remain and development of destroyed areas. The return of the population lasted a long time, one of which remained in developed areas, which further left a return to rural areas. All of this has left behind frequent changes in areas of special concern with all the financial contributions from the Executive Authority. There are so many visible differences in all the criteria for those who have been persecuted from those areas where the events of war have not been. Income, conditions, employment opportunities and constant care are significantly different as it still feels today. Countys, cities and municipalities in assisted areas had a lower rate and standard of life while the costs were, it can be said. There's a series of indicators that talk about diversity. Of the census, less income per capita, more unemployed, lack of education, etc. which have affected and should have been supported today, in order to return the population to areas of special concern. And this bill of law probably has a good intention. However, we must be aware of all the consequences during the years of the war that we began to eliminate 10 years ago, 15 years ago. In order to help assisted areas, we must do everything we can to bring the economy back to its areas because the particulars they have give us hope of returning and surviving people into assisted areas. All of this must include local, regional self-government units because they know best what they really need in their fields. There are various factors that have so far not given room for freedom in creating the development potential of municipalities, cities and counties. So today, when incentives from European sources are offered, we must do everything possible to ensure that the representation of units of local and regional administrations must start a new cycle towards reviving and creating basic conditions that would invite the population to return. For all of this, the Ministry of Regional Development is in charge of which it must look at and record priorities with the obligation to give greater support to all. All to develop that must generate support and support for less developed areas. Finally, the most important objective of this proposal is certainly to adopt measures for demographic renewal where there is a need to continue to provide a basis for strengthening competitiveness, to create development potential in assisted areas and to stop leaving these areas. In order for all of this to happen, I certainly need to and agree with the part of some colleagues to be more financial support. The HDZ Club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93103	Thank you. The respected representative, Šipic, will now continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. The topic is very important, especially for many areas in the Republic of Croatia, in particular 45 cities and municipalities, and especially for people living in these areas, on which the Government and the Ministry of Regional Development are specifically the Law, and later through the programme and other measures on mountain-mounted areas want concrete assistance measures. It is precisely because of the awareness that it is necessary to strengthen efforts and concerns for areas where development at a lower level is going to the new Proposal for a Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. Direct capital support to local budgets and regional, new distribution of common taxes, tax relief to taxpayers, reduction of operating costs to entrepreneurs, especially farmers, encouraging housing measures, employment measures, e.g. Make a wish. We've got all this going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. However, in many areas negative demographic, economic and social movements are recorded. Analysis and state of economic, fiscal and demographic movements suggest that it is important to approach design, I believe based on practice, changes in legal bases with a view to detecting development trends and the development of mountainous and mountainous areas. We heard, the Ministry held a public consultation from June to July this year through the portal e-consultation for the draft proposal of this Act. The practice of applying the existing Law on mountainous and mountainous areas has shown that some of the issues governed by this Act are not legally complete, and are effectively and coherently addressed in implementing terms, which has not offered satisfactory solutions to address the problem of staying in the development of mountainous and mountainous areas. That is why it is for us to welcome the desire and intensity of the Government and the Ministry that, as everything is subject to change, this Law and other laws can be revised, complemented, considered and directed towards the needs of our fellow citizens. It is important that the aim of this new Law which, of course, is not with this act today, is done on mountain-mounted areas to ensure the basis for strengthening competitiveness and achieving its own development potential in mountain-mounted areas. The law seeks to place emphasis on the specificities of microlocations and encourage the activation of all participants and stakeholders in joint work for the well-being of mountain-mounted areas and people living in them. The preparation and implementation of measures, programmes and projects for the development of mountain and mountainous areas shall be attended by other central authorities of the state administration, units of local and regional self-government and other public legal bodies which can contribute significantly to their development through their activities. What is important to emphasise is that the draft Law on mountainous and mountainous areas provides for the introduction of the following, the mountain-mounted turn programme, the mountain-mounted development fund, the Croatian mountain product, the specific criteria of project selection, green and sustainable criteria in the public procurement process. The new Law, among other provisions, will redefine and cover mountainous and mountainous areas that we constantly have discussions and questionnaires and doubts about and talk about. The new Law needs to settle basic issues, and it concerns the overall development and halting of the negative trends that we have seen in every way. Strengthening the local development potential of mountain-mounted areas and the integration of local and regional needs, and all in order to prepare for the withdrawal of as much funds from the EU budget as possible in the next period, this is one of the important topics for all of us who are being pushed out into the units of local self-government. A new policy of measures for further growth and development of units of local self-government covered by a new index of development, retention and return of the displaced population and encouraging new settlement in these areas that we consider undeveloped. More measures that will lead to this, new measures, that is very important and necessary. Promote economic and social development, even more funding, as well as professional assistance, to prepare development projects that see their foundation of funding in structural funds. The units of local self-government that would have acquired the status of mountainous mountainous mountainous areas under this new law would have been classified according to geographical features, natural or other specificities in three groups according to the development index, they were already being talked about not repeating themselves. Following the adoption of the law on mountainous mountainous areas, the government of the Republic of Croatia will make a decision to cover the mountainous mountainous area. When we talk about finance, we also saw through the replicas of colleagues, of course the means are what we all look at when we look at the bill of this law and all of these laws that are closely related to this one. I will say that the funds provided for implementing the measures of the law on this proposal are certainly not enough for local community development projects. It is certainly necessary to find ways to increase funding for the implementation of projects with a special emphasis on the preparation of the project documentation, for a new financing period of EU funds that follows us for 2 years. We are all witnessing that new cities and municipalities are now catching and catching up with the latest competitions and trying to get on a train potentially getting those funds, and what's coming to us now is that we need to redefine as much as possible, position and prepare as many projects as possible. So in that sense, perhaps between these two readings in the new proposal should be certain when we talk about these millions +20 to find and pray the finance minister and all others who participate in the creation, creating a budget to find even more resources because when we add up the units of local self-government, then we will see that we will really have hundreds of units of local self-government that will be insufficient because if each of us reports 2 projects as we have now reported both the town of Trilj and municipalities in the Cetin area and Vrgorec and all our other places of Dalmatian burning, like, Slavonia and others, then we see that a good sum of funds that will potentially come into our cities and municipalities. But there are insufficient resources in the preparation and implementation of the projects themselves. So I ask you, as well as the promoters and participants, all in the process of finally creating this law, and in particular the programs that we are not talking about today, and that will certainly be the fruit of this law, that we really meet because I am also one of those who comes from these endangered areas, and of course, as good as it is in that evaluation and analysis when it comes to whether the project is going to pass or not, and so much as there is an advantage, we have so much shortage to raise the funds for designing and implementation in the finality. I believe that the ministry, together with other ministries, especially with the government, will have an understanding of what essentially our mayors and mayors and those who read this bill are most interested in, and these are the means for the future implementation of all these programmes that are being announced here. I thank the Ministry and the Government for, after years of going into this proposal, critics are good, of all our colleagues within the Parliament, but we have heard here that all these years we have not had as much help as we have now. Here we will point out, unrelated to this ministry, only an example of the Minister of Finance and the measures of tax discharge, and this contribution to these mountainous mountainous areas is that there has been no such discharge and these millions that are now coming together every month, and also to the Chetinian region and the Vregor end, we would not now report and we would be in a better position to get new decisions in the coming months for both kindergartens and for firehouses and for other needs that make life more pleasant, safer and more beautiful in these areas. In that sense, I believe that we will make new proposals between these two readings, and that the ministry with the government will have an understanding for people who come from the field and bring quality proposals. The HDZ Club will support this proposal, with faith and hope for an even better solution through second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93105	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Dragana Jeckov will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93106	I would like to thank Vice-President of the Parliament, State Secretary and Associates, Honorable MPs and MPs. So far, through 4 laws, so far, the Law on PPDS, the Law on Islands and the Law on Mountains and the Law on Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar has sought to address the problem of social and economic lagging in the development of certain areas caused by geographical location or due to the consequences of war and war damage. In addition to all State aid measures, such as capital support to local regional budgets, more favourable treatment of the distribution of common taxes, tax relief, reduction of operating costs and entrepreneurs and farmers, encouraging measures in the area of housing, encouraging employment measures and many others, we still failed to obtain the expected result, i.e. expected demographic and economic positive movements. On the contrary, almost all assisted areas record continuous negative demographic, social and economic movements. The analyses and indicators along with the three-year average, so from 2010 to 2012 say that the average original income for all assisted areas was 1912 kuna per capita, and for other counties more than 3600 kuna. It therefore speaks of twice the fiscal capacity of developed counties. Any comparison with other parts of the Republic of Croatia is to the detriment of vulnerable areas. The average rate of the development index is only 54% of their national average. The average income per capita is 16900 kuna compared to national, which is 27700 kuna. In the end, the population depopulation from 1991 to 2011 was 45% in those areas, while at the level of the Republic of Croatia was 10%. This social and economic backlog is particularly visible in return areas that are mahogany populated by members of the Serb national minority. The gap between developed areas and those affected by the war, the return-populated members of the Serb national minority are increasingly visible and increasingly visible. During the two previous administrative and executive authorities, significantly reduced investments in return areas and no new recovery measures were adopted. Almost the only economic initiatives in places with the majority Serb population, i.e. returnees, were those so-called. The dirty industry, the plaster factory, or the waste warehouse. Based on surveys and surveys conducted in 2016 and 2017, 32 units of local self-government in war-affected areas, and with a Serb stake greater than 15% in the total population, the systematic neglect of these areas has been confirmed, so it is apostrophe that almost a third of the national and half of the local and unclassified roads are necessary. Over 60% of the settlement has no neat plumbing. Almost all public or state facilities, sewers, fire and social homes require basic reconstruction or construction. We consider the positive adoption of this Act, namely the Law and the assisted areas and the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas for which we are therefore particularly interested in the above mentioned and since this law has proposed encouraging measures for the restoration and development, the promotion of demographic and economic progress, and the achievement of the more uniform development of these areas. It is precisely because of the importance of this Law and the particular interest of the SDSS Club on this subject that we have proposed a number of concrete measures that we consider to be concrete proposals that we believe will contribute to better solutions. So we suggest that it is clearly stated that the local community must benefit from all natural resources on its territory, therefore both from forests and from rivers, lakes, agricultural land, wind and others. Furthermore, to include measures that make the local community more useful than national parks and nature parks. To include the measures of compulsory purchase of local producers' products by public institutions, national parks. So it's meant for local OPGs. To include in the Law measures to ensure long-term insurance of the production of indigenous products. In order to integrate measures promoting rural rural tourism into the law, to integrate measures to encourage the organisation of local events and cultural events, to complement more precisely in the section relating to project selection criteria, as well as employment in assisted areas again with clear and concrete criteria. In addition, we believe that, in parallel with the draft law, it should work on a multi-annual programme of sustainable social economic development in order to provide adequate resources for the implementation of this programme for 2019. I will just say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is an operational programme for national minorities for the period 2017-2020, within the framework of activity 281, which refers to the improvement of development programmes in areas where historically living members of national minorities, which are demographically, economically and socially weakened and significantly below the national development average, in fact, in some ways, envisioned these changes and complementing existing legal solutions, all with the aim of improving development programmes in the areas of the return of exiles and refugees, and in the area where historically live members of national minorities, who are thus weakened, as I said. Therefore, certain development instruments have been provided and envisaged precisely by this operational plan in order to ensure minimum standards of municipal and social infrastructure. This is why we particularly support the specialised fund, and specifically designed criteria when selecting projects for funding and in these assisted areas with suggestions that I have talked about earlier, which are aimed at more concrete solutions to this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93107	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDP, and time will be shared by the respected representative Damir Mateljan and Marko Vesligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93108	... Honorable state secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] First of all, Secretary of State you're here to justify the surface These aren't new laws. Namely, the first Law on areas of special state care was adopted in 1996, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas was first adopted in 2002, meaning these are not new legal proposals. The proposal for a Law on Supported Areas that we are discussing today in its first reading should simply be part of the overall policy of regional development of the Republic of Croatia, which means that the objective of this proposal should be in line with the objectives of the regional policy of the Republic of Croatia, which implies economic development in accordance with the principles of sustainable development, by creating conditions that will allow for the strengthening of competitiveness and realisation of its own potential in all parts of the country. This legislative proposal together with other laws relating to regional development, including the Law on Islands, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, the Regional Development Act, should constitute a common legal framework which should ensure the integration of local and regional development needs with the central level development priorities and bring it in line with... European... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] policies, all in order to strengthen, less developed areas in the Republic of Croatia, and that regardless of whether these areas of islands, whether they hill and mountains, were then border areas, were those demographic devastation areas or all that together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about assisted areas in one European context, these are almost all rural areas and 90% of the assisted areas of this country are also rural areas. So these European spaces from Scandinavia to the Balkans, from Baltic to the Mediterranean, actually share these same problems, demographic devastation, infrastructure lags on one side of municipal infrastructure such as roads, roads, public lighting, water supply, etc., on the other hand, social infrastructure such as kindergartens, such as schools, homes of culture, such as cultural, entertainment life, so simply that part of it is debilitating. That is why, for this reason too, European policy has understood the importance of the potential of these areas, therefore, extremely large funds, so the EU invests in these areas, i.e. rural areas and agriculture. Evidence that this is the case is also the total EU funds available to Croatia from 2014 to 2020, of 11 billion euros, almost 2 billion euros has just been provided for rural development and agriculture. These include measures 74 and 72 relating to road construction, the construction of kindergartens, the homes of culture and firehouses, so these are the activities already being carried out, today is not the subject of competition planning dynamics or today is the topic of their evaluation or implementation, so I won't even talk about it. However, given all of these, and given the large amount of resources available for regional development, it is extremely important to highlight one of the objectives of the regional policy of the Republic of Croatia, which is to promote territorial cooperation and the use of EU funds. Our legal framework regarding regional development so far looked like this, so the first law on areas, so on areas of special state care, was adopted in 1996, the Law on Islands 1999, the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar in 2001, the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Areas 2002 and the Law on Regional Development 2014, the New legal framework of regional policy and regional development of the Republic of Croatia, is beginning to be created by amendments and additions to the Regional Development Act or the new indexation adopted in 2017. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case, all of these legal proposals, except for the Island Law, are actually difficult to call laws, hardly to be called something concrete and something that has content, are actually guidelines and principles that we can agree on. The laws relating to regional development are complex laws and perhaps, not perhaps, but certainly, they should not be passed in just one ministry such as the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds but rather there should be more stakeholders, in particular the Ministry of Demography, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and above all the Ministry of Finance, because the actual soul of the entire system is, money is the means. Why the rest of the Ministry of Finance? Based on the new Law on the financing of units of local self-government, since 1.1. this year the only source of funding of units of local self-government is income tax or there are benchmarks, they are for the municipality of 1900 kuna, for cities are 2500 kuna and the unique share of income tax for all municipalities regardless of their index of development, which means that 60% of which means that areas of special state care and mountainous areas have lost 28% of the share in income tax. Alignment in many of these municipalities, there are 264 of them who do not compensate for the part they have lost. Therefore, 85 million kuna provided in the budget for 2019 and 2020 are certainly not sufficient resources and this also shows the seriousness of this legislative proposal. So unfortunately, in this first reading of the SDP club can support these principles but this law certainly cannot support it because it has no concrete measures, no concrete activities, most importantly, so there are no concrete sources of funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93109	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Marko Vedligaj will now continue
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93110	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a quick look at this proposal for a law on mountain-mounted areas. Here's what we heard from fellow Matjanians for the first time in 2002, it was brought by the government run by Ivica Racan. And since then, this law has changed seven times, which is not really such a bad average for our Croatian frameworks for amending the law. We've heard it before and through replicas that we've had inhabitable disappointment with the law, so after this one long process we've had, discussions about the bill's proposals, or drafts. Maintaining thematic sessions, working bodies meetings, thematic sessions of the Committee and local self-government and the Committee on Regional Development. The embassies, representatives of embassies from France, Switzerland, Austria, presented certain solutions to us. And then we would expect a very clear, concrete law with concrete measures that will improve primarily the standard of people living in mountainous and mountainous areas, communal standards, social standards, measures to develop these areas, measures that will stop people from leaving these areas and then create conditions for people to move into these areas according to the kind of solutions that we have heard from our colleagues from these Alpine countries. But there's more than one in front of us I'd call it a shelf paper that might be a good proposal for making laws and these measures but certainly not the law. The law is very general, I will repeat once again, but the opening part brings a number of these general provisions, such as the aim of the law, of course, of strengthening the local development potential of mountain-mounted areas, local and regional projects with EU measures, programmes, etc. Of course it's all well said, but how to do it specifically is not said anywhere. Similar to this insufficient... In fact, Article 7 in which I will look at myself most in these 3.5 minutes as far as I have, and this is already in the first paragraph, states that under the mountainous mountainous areas, areas whose altitude, slope and vertical dissipation of the terrain and their conditioned pedological, climate and other natural characteristics represent difficult conditions for the life and work of the inhabitants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The measure should, therefore, be one of the criteria for determining what will be, the mountainous and mountainous areas, and which it will not, in my view, be sufficiently specific. Article 2 is also very questionable to me and that is that the status of the mountain-mounted areas is determined at the level of units of local self-government. I know it's technically the easiest thing to do. But why isn't that good? And why do I think it should be at the level of the settlement? Because this leads to decomposition and leads to an injustice. In the mountainous areas and we know that the borders of the units are local self-government, the inner areas of course are settlements, they are artificially withdrawn. For example, on one hill we can have two settlements located in two different units of local self-government, and houses can be 10 meters away. Under this law, one house will fall under a mountain-mounted area, the other will not fall under a mountain-mounted area. So one household will enter a Croatian mountain product programme aimed at promoting production and placement and promotion of original innovative products and the other will not. Let me explain how you talk to people now, citizens who live in that area and tell them that your neighbor has entered the mountain-mounted area, unfortunately you're not. In my opinion, that means one discrimination. The French model presented to us at one of the thematic sessions predicted just such an opportunity, though they went to rounding their local units and then predicted that parts of the municipalities that were therefore rounding still remained under mountainous and mountainous areas. So they didn't enter the entire local units. Article 3. further, the same as in Article 7, hence, the ranking of units of local self-government is based on the development index. I don't think it's good for the ranking criteria because there's no excessive impact on that index with the difficult living conditions and business on certain mountain-mounted municipalities. Here is what I will also look at in Article 7 of the 6th article, which I find also very controversial, which is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the proposal of the Resolute Ministry, determines the scope, actually makes a decision on the coverage and classification of units of local self-government entering mountainous and mountainous areas. Unfortunately, here we open up a space for political manipulation, we open up a space for non-transparency, and we believe that it should be an integral part of the law to cover the units of local self-government as many as there are, that it should be an integral part of the law rather than a special decision. So, of course, the aim of the law should be to improve life in mountainous and mountainous areas, a law with concrete measures, unfortunately not available. I hope we can make it to another reading, but I'm afraid I can't, I can't support it. List of units of local self-government that enter, include a settlement located in other units of local self-government that will not enter the mountain-mounted areas and provide an equal criterion for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93111	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists and time will be shared by respected MPs Pranic and Bulj. First, colleague Ante Pranic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93112	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I wish there was a minister today, but first of all, the minister of finance and the prime minister who should answer a simple question, whether or not he wants to live in the mountainous mountainous area of Croatia? The Law on the mountainous mountainous area was first adopted in 2002 seven times changed and every time it was worse and worse because when we see a demographic picture, the ageing index of people living there, it is indeed a catastrophic picture. Currently, under the current law within the mountainous mountainous part of Croatia, we have 45 units of local self-government, the largest number of cities with mountainous mountainous status are located in the coastal mountainous county of 13 of them, in the Split Dalmatian region from which I come, from Dalmatian Zagorje 11, Krapina Zagorje 7, Istrian 5, Lika Senjska 2 etc. This area, according to the 2011 census, has 202,000 people, and indeed when we talk about hilly mountain law, we are not talking about financing cities and municipalities, we are not talking about financing leggosts, we are talking about surviving 200,000 Croats. If by any chance today in Parliament there might have been a debate about a company that employs 200,00 people I suppose today would have been a full assembly, we would have a minister, not just one, but... But when I talk like this about a mountainous mountainous area that is equal to 200,000 people, I can see that this topic isn't even important that the minister can't come today either. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In our Croatians there is an old proverb, as much money as there is music. Well, before I speak of the financial aspect of this law, I would like to say, namely, the fact that it justifies that every change was worse and worse. When we look at the latest legislative changes that came into force in 1.1.2015, and they related to the latest changes to the mountainous mountainous area law, as well as a series of funding and tax laws and regional development laws, we can even see that 45 cities from the mountainous mountainous area, or people living in it, if financed from urban budgets, development projects, lost 155 million kuna per year, means 155 million. Kuna per year overnight, the budget is cut in half. I really don't know if anyone asked then how we can survive, how when the city budget breaks in half from which to finance kindergartens, from which to finance some other actions. With colleagues, mayors and mayors from the mountainous mountainous area of Croatia, from different police options, from Lepglava, from Buzet, from Delnik, from Vrbovski we went twice to the minister of finance, literally moved for a sleeve to tell someone that it is impossible to survive if someone cut your budget twice overnight. One year we received 20 million kuna, one year 10 million kuna, and then we talk about demographics today, we talk about demographics in Dalmatian Zagora, we talk about emigration, settlement of Gorski Kotar, Like, Croatian Zagorje and the interior of Istria. Now I'd ask a question so that the minister would have someone cut his budget overnight to realize all the programs from his portfolio? It barely survived, we were pulling the sleeve literally telling you, the last two to three years of the ministry, first of all the Ministry of Finance, I said how much money, so much music. We were waiting for this bill and I was alone with fellow mayors in the task force, and I was really disappointed when I saw that only 20 million kunas were meant for the assessment of the financial need for the implementation of this law. I'll be back, if we're left with 155 million. Kuna annually in recent changes, now someone expects to start an economy and stop the collapse with 20 million. Kuna. and I know that this may not be your question, and it is certainly the Minister of Finance's question, as well as the prime minister who needs to answer whether or not they want to live in the mountainous area. Let him feel free to say they don't want to, we'll manage, and we've been able to manage these last two to three years. But we can't today someone's telling me that they brought me back through fiscal... certain funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let me return the last two to three years when the budgets are halved to be competitive with the rest of Croatia at all. As far as this area is concerned, from which I come, from which my colleagues from like and Gorski kotar come and the rest of the work of the dumm. Zagorje, I really don't know how many schools should be emptied, how many people have to prove to me that they are investing in the maintenance of unclassified roads during the snowy conditions, how uncompetitive our masters should be because of a number of other factors or ultimately how many average monthly kunas a family needs to be singled out to realize that life in the mountainous mountainous area of Croatia is not equal to life in some urban areas of Croatia, so close to me Split, is a colleague from Delnice Rijeka, close to a colleague from Lepoglava or Krapinsko-Zagorje Zagreb, but it is not easier to live, or we don't have equal living conditions of life in the mountain and mountainous areas, as the rest of Croatia. That's why I really expected this law to be concrete, first of all, that it would define which units of local self-government and administrations enter mountainous mountainous areas, and we can see that that's not the case. Although there should be redefine and I welcome it, I welcome and I am glad to see the mountain range development fund, but I really don't know what kind of fund we're talking about 20 million. Kuna. You, too, have probably given 10 million kunas to the infrastructure that has been destroyed by the action of elemental disasters after several appointments in the Assembly. Of those 10 million kunas, we have to invest another 10 to go into realisation at all. I'm glad to see Croatian mountain product, but now imagine a paradox. You have a measure called 6.3 of the agriculture ministry on this one, which is now the last to pass where additional points of farmers from the mountainous mountainous area are being thrown out. So we have a law that says it will help agriculture according to Croatia's mountain product, and another ministry that should be defined at that very moment, it is ousting additional points to our farmers. I really don't know how someone's helping us. But most of all, what really disappointed me the most is a mountain card. The only thing we asked for were the benefits of natural and legal persons with natural persons who have residence and legal persons who have registered headquarters in the mountainous mountainous area in order to make it easier to use it. We are presented, not only was it presented but in fact you gave us a draft of April 2018 and in this draft law of 2018 on a college in the article, it seems to me that it was the 36th Mountain Card and all certain criteria. So that it would be thrown out, and we're told that some ministry doesn't agree. And now we've had a previous island law where we have an island card because it can pass there. Well, I, it turns out from this, that these 200,000 people living in the worst conditions in Croatia, because it's not the same heat season in Gorski Kotar, Dalmatinska Zagora, Lici and the heating season on the islands. Turns out we're citizens of II. Order. It's not the same to invest. So I'm just going to prove one principle to you. The cost of electricity per meter of cubicly invoiced water towards users. Turns out to be a delivery company in Vrgorec, 4.47 kuna per cubic, 4.47 per cubic. And the average of Croatia is 1 kuna per cubic. Well, the most expensive water in Croatia is your water in Dalmatia. Well, it's because of all the geomorphological characteristics of the mountain-mounted area. And we pointed out all of this, all of it neatly on a few dates, we proved to you, I don't know how to prove it anymore, except maybe bring someone by the sleeve to the minister for seven days in Vrgorec to see what it's like to live here. And what did we get on the bench today? We got the law. And I really do, I don't know what I'm gonna tell my citizens when I get back? What does that mean to them? What does it mean to an entrepreneur who invests in economic zones across the Dalmatian mountainous region, like, a mountain cotter or part of Zagorje where, which he has benefits? And he had those benefits in his past laws. And instead of overwriteing those benefits from the 2008 amendment law, 2009 income tax cuts or some other ones that were then defined. But as long as an entrepreneur from the hill and mountain areas pays the same burdens as an entrepreneur from urban areas, so I will literally tell Split, Zagreb, Rijeka and Osijek about life in the mountainous and mountainous area we cannot talk about. In view of a number of other aspects, as I said the cost of life or this basic infrastructure based on the new law may have had good intentions but this law does nothing but pursues one agony of the mountainous region of Croatia and leads absolutely to a demographic breakdown. You can give us no idea and 200 million kunas for the basic infrastructure but I don't really know for 20, up to 30 years who will walk that sidewalk in Delnice, who will walk a foothold in Vrgorec when there won't be people if you don't help the owners in this area first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93113	Thank you. He will continue on behalf of the Representatives' Club, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93114	Thank you very much. What to say about this law is, in fact, what kind of framework might be for the development of some law, essentially mountainous areas and assisted areas and 80% of the Republic of Croatia for mountainous and mountainous areas, we're talking about 20 million kunas, for a fund and for an aided 80 million kuna. We don't call for, uh, indexation, so you've declared Drnis a developed city, half of like, regular Kotara. So what areas are these laws you didn't define? The index that was passed is catastrophic. The only thing we have in these parts are funerals, no births. That's why you have to encourage life in that area and here looking at what's most important is that they're entrepreneurs. What measures are you in this law tell us here, answer us, give us a proposal for entrepreneurs. What are the measures? Name them what are the measures because the energy is more expensive. I, before, last year, i.e. for the 2018 budget, I was in most, I was, I did not vote because of this relationship to the mountainous and mountainous area. Perhaps the first parliamentary representative since Parliament was part of the majority and has not voted in favour of the budget. And you're doing worse now. You can't really play with this law. This law takes care of 80% of the empty territory that is targetedly evicted and which does not accept a government that does not accept legal initiatives. I suggested today, that law I had long proposed, today I was on the board, that 50% of the assets as a sale of state property remain to the units of the self-government place. Well, in mountain-mounted areas and underdeveloped areas, which are underdeveloped, the assisted areas should remain at least 90% of the resources. This isn't about concrete, asphalting, painting with ministers, whether it's a nogostop, but whether it's a matter of life and the survival of people in this area. 26 thousand people have evicted from 2011 to 2016. From Krka to Neretva. Those areas have been forgotten. The government can't know because it doesn't live down there. They don't care. They come to the top prosciutto at the mayor Pranic, come to St. Michaela in Trilj, they come to Sinjska Alka and, of course, they see it, they paint it, they paint it, they promise. No more kid's pay. Schools are an empty colleague of Šipić's. Maybe these measures while they're working out these regulations that should be in the law, maybe no one will be in the Tiaraca anymore. It's not enough taking pictures with ministers for one nogostop, it's not enough. And we've done as mayors, commissioners, MPs, councilmen something. No, it's not enough that here, this law should have been prescribed... that the state subsidized all textbooks for these areas, not that we must terrorise the county, the city of Sinj, I am in the city of Sinj when I had the opportunity to solve it, this year the county took over... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the fact is, we don't have a survival measure here, mostly young people, children and families. That's why we're free to make an outpost. This law is explained when we make it in Ireland for people to come back here. Because as long as you work it out, all of these measures will not be 80% of Croatia's inhabitants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93115	The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of, and I'm sorry, on behalf of the promoter, Honorable Secretary of State Velimir Zunac will now have his 5 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93116	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I'd just like to say a few sentences. So it is mentioned here that tax reform in 2015 means about 150 million kuna if I understand well, so only the city, all 45 mountainous areas, so a total of about 500 million kunas, so looking at a complete unit of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. So I would really say it again, I've already said it again, so tax reform that is in effect this year means not to be taken but to a billion and a half, a billion and 500 million kuna is returning to those budgets, of which nearly 500 million kuna goes to assisted areas. I know that this 20 million is small and certain that these 85 or 80 million kunas are just as little, but we need to know that, in addition to these funds that I just said, almost 500 million kuna annually goes from the Ministry of Regional Development for various programmes such as the programme of sustainable development of the local community, the programme for regional development, the programme for the development of the island, so we also have a programme for co-financing of project documentation of local self-government units, we have a fund for co-financing of contracted European projects, so it's large funds, so it's at the annual level of 500 million kuna and the intensity is what everyone assumes in the Republic, there's a great source of funding for all, almost all projects and so at this point is European, structural and investment funds. We know what aliocation is, we know that there are a lot of resources and many of the cities and municipalities have reported, many have already received funds, some have already done their projects, some are now, so the intensity of this government of the Republic of Croatia is not that every city and municipality depends on these 100, 200, 300,000 kunas that will receive the Ministry of Regional Development or the Ministry of Construction or the Ministry of Economy or elsewhere, but to fiscally strengthen them, that their fiscal capacity leads to a level that they can independently work and improve their municipalities and cities, and that is the intensity and what these actual figures show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93117	Thank you very much. As soon as you have said the first word, I already have a replica, the first one is the respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93118	Please tell me the Rules of Procedure point when you've now commented, when would I have to give a replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93119	Comrade Bulj, don't pollemize with me Don't pollemize, pal Bull. [[Intruder Bulj: so you're semi-committing without need.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93120	Without need, you want to be an intruder... But it all comes to an end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm talking about a very serious topic, and I knew what they were going to say, I didn't support the budget because of it, otherwise last year I was in the Gorski Kotar with my colleague Pranic where people literally don't have to finance basic needs for normal life, so after the winter, after the snow they all paint, they paint, clean snow all the ministers, they don't have the means to restore asphalt i.e. Roads, pave those areas that are literally catastrophic. And then you have 10 presses, they have to pray, but apparently the government's goal of praying. The point is that these resources that we have in mountainous and assisted areas are used by local self-government rather than the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93121	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Robert Podlonjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. You will remember yesterday's debate on the Legislative Committee when I specifically warned about Article 7 of the bill and said that you do not define key criteria which is a mountainous area and which units of local self-government will be concerned. You have seen today, listening to debates by clubs that, of course, we don't have replicas, that in fact all clubs have said the same, pointing out that this key deficit next to the financial aspect, you've stressed that by the final draft of the law, I repeat that because of those colleagues who weren't on the Committee on Legislatives, you'll have all the indexes that you'll have a ready study that will serve as a template that in the final draft of the law we have criteria that will be clear, unequivocal and that we won't leave it to the government on the rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93123	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93124	Well, as you said, the index of the alignment and alignment of the budget of the local self-government units has helped a lot, but it has mostly helped the cities. In my Krapina-Zagorje County, unfortunately mathematics turned out to be such that those units that were in the hill-mounted area remained either at zero, a positive zero and some unfortunately even with that new alignment were once again down. We remember a few years ago when the units of local self-government that were in the mountain-mounted area system remained over 40% of the income literally overnight. They've been recovering for years, some of them haven't recovered from that blow by the end of the day, but they definitely can't speak to this alignment that went well for all the local self-government units because unfortunately, right in my Krapina-Zagorje County, the units that were in the hill-mounted area unfortunately didn't have any major effect since the alignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93125	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93126	Mr. Secretary of State, it's a good thing you went with these financial indicators because when you propose a law like this, it's only two things that matter to those of this law. Who's in that hill-mounted area and how much money they'll get. So, since the units of local self-government and the assisted areas in the mountainous and mountainous areas burned that famous reform and the new distribution of funds in 2015 when they were taken over 155 million kunas, I think we should highlight this new division because most units of local self-government, especially the smaller ones, have received far, far more funds and perhaps in the final proposal of the Law should come out with financial indicators because here, what my colleague Puh said, if it happened that some units had gotten a little less, see what happened to correct it. Because when we talk about laws like this, if we don't offer financial indicators, we haven't done anything in principle. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93127	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the next Club of Representatives, and that's that GLAS and HSU on behalf of which will speak respected representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with associates and colleagues and colleagues. So we're discussing two laws. I think it was Einstein who said it was one of the indicators of wrong or wrong opinion if you repeated one of those same actions, hoping you'd get a different result. He said it a little rougher, but you understand what I mean. Therefore, in this proposal of the Law on Supported Areas, and also in terms of mountain-mountan and islands, all of these legislations on specialised areas and specific aid for individual isolated categories, it is said in the past that various measures have been applied through different laws in order to reduce emigration, to reduce underdevelopment, to reduce GDP proportionality per capita, etc. and that none of it worked, or did not achieve the desired effect. And immediately afterwards, the proposal follows the exact same type of measure that expects that with the exact same type of measure that it has established that it has not worked so far, it will now work for some reason. It's not enough to be called something by name. Just to give an example from that Law, and de facto they're all one kind of island packages, where, for example, the islands are predicted a certain amount to encourage the economy. When you take the sum, share it with the number of islands and islands, you will get 20 thousand kuna per island or island on average. I can buy myself a little better electric bicycle for that. So you have that category, and de facto nothing because it won't help anyone. And here, what's interesting about these laws is that people, lawmakers, find that such a measure doesn't help, but don't give up. The same measures are being re-packed, the only thing they pass the law or propose to pass the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas without knowing what it is. Without knowing it, there are no tax-listed units of local self-government, there are no clear unequivocal criteria on which each of us can determine whether or not it belongs in that category. What does that mean in politics? You're all politicians, so you know what that means. This means, if there are no tax lists listed, the listed lists where it is taxed are listed units of local self-government, if there are no criteria on which you and I can determine whether the municipality x belongs or does not belong in the mountainous mountainous area, it means that I, who am in power, will determine who is and who is not. And who I like, from my party or anything, it will be, and who it isn't, it won't be. So that's one instrument, let's say the political conjecture to be very mild. But I'd say it's secondary. What's key and you can see from... I'd ask you to listen a little bit, maybe you don't find it interesting, but it's your job to listen to it. So what's crucial in this law and one law and the other is the number. So if you have 304 or 336, there are still over half of the local self-government units that fall under this category, and there are therefore assisted areas, and then there are mountain-mounted areas, and there are still islands, so you still have the city of Vukovar, so the town of Vukovar and the whole area. In other words, you have more or less all of Croatia inside. And that says that there's something fundamental wrong. So if you have to help different special measures, practically each other except maybe 10 big cities or what I know, 100 units of local self-government, that means people need a new principle. One concept or idea that is very much talked about, usually around and before the elections, and a little bit less afterwards, I think these two laws are very clear given the vast majority of local self-government units covering the Republic of Croatia say this kind of funding of local self-government is not right. Because if you have to patch up 400, 450 out of 550 places, that means that this model of funding for local self-government is no good. In other words, we should obviously lower more money. That we should put down more money. I agree with the descent of knowledge, with the descent of control, with the descent of clearly defined criteria. I am not at all a great friend of throwing money away to some local commissioners and mayors without any insight or return, but with very clear criteria, with help and absolutely help in Croatia. So it is not true that in Croatia, even in this state administration that we are often very critical of, there are not enough people with knowledge that can help local self-government units, let's say, design projects to run for European money, to collectively unite local self-government units when it comes to some, running for some infrastructure projects that include more than one unit. Absolutely in the Croatian state administration there are people who can help, there are people who can help, there are instruments that can control these money and introduce very clear and transparent criteria to be referred to. At the end of the line, they can be simplified a little bit and prescribed by those from the EU when they will be referred back, how that money has been spent. But from the fact that we have between 400 and 350 units of local self-government to help and patch them up, it turns out that people locally don't have enough money to live on. And a lot of those things that, we always say and that should be reduced to the number of units. And there's something about it, and there's something about what it says that people often feel closer, that the main government they see and communicate with is local government. And if they have closer to having a sense of greater influence, and on the other hand and locally, that people know better and understand better what that environment and that community needs than if they look from the top of the state. Therefore, there are arguments to allow these units to survive. But as long as there are, we can have a special debate about whether it takes so many, which they don't need, it can be a special debate. But as long as they exist, they should be able to live on the basis of regular funding. So it's obvious that if you have to patch up 450 of the 550 units of local self-government that the model finance needs to be changed. More money needs to be put down and there is a need to determine what will be in the jurisdiction of these units of local self-government. Let's say something that we talk about all the time which would be of great help and what isn't mentioned here is this famous fund that would follow the units of the local self-government mountain-mounted, island, in the assisted areas, but defacto all, therefore not only, of course, all of these but these are most of them, as we have seen from these data that were brought here. So what is necessary to take advantage of these resources that we need and that are available to us is to take this fund at the state level which could a) finance project building or aid project financing in these units of local self-government. On the other hand, it could provide that participation usually required by local self-government units and on the third hand could finance that famous first year. Because as you all know, when you get a first-year project, you have to do and pay first, and then they pay you back. And very many units of local self-government especially those of which we are talking about today in these two laws, even in principle in this Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, because we don't really know what areas they are in particular worth, is that they can't show up at all to run for the European funds available because they don't have the money first to create a project and second to participation and what's actually short-term but usually the largest amount is to provide funding for that first year until they qualify for the development of the project until they qualify for the return of funds from the first year. There's nothing about it. This is also for assisted areas and mountain-mounted areas and for all other units of local self-government in Croatia much more than anything in these two, plus the island law multiplied by today's date. So this is all let's say marginally or a little bit in relation to what could be achieved with such a different approach. Determine which percentage of more resources from the state budget you will lower to the level of units of local self-government, so it does not have to be dramatic right now, but let's define, let's set all control criteria and determine that fund and that knowledge that will be put in place, there is not a lot of diversity in projects that local self-government units want and apply to European funds, it is mostly water, sewerage, roads, kindergartens, cultural homes and some of course have more than that. But 5, 6, the type projects that are then adapted, depending on the size, the number of inhabitants and the specific needs that would be made available to people with all the accompanying calculations and everything that is needed, would double-cross everything that is provided for in this one law, so on assisted areas, and in these mountainous areas of what is, let's just say, because I agree with those who said it wasn't the law because you can't write a law on something there. Because you must first define what the entity of the law is, and the subject of the law are areas, or units of local self-government, to which these rules will then apply. And here we have something called the law, and the secretary of state himself says, and in procedure until next time, we'll tell you exactly what that applies. I've been in the Parliament a long time. I have to say I haven't seen it yet. So there are concrete measures, there are concrete measures some of the counties that local self-government in Croatia have tried. They could be turned around and used, but for starters it's really obvious that these laws don't define exceptions, as it would be by title logically, but the rule, most of them. So the Voice won't support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93129	The next Club of Representatives is the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Batinić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93130	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, these two draft laws, a united debate, very logically because they are practically talking about less developed areas in the Republic of Croatia or the areas that they certainly need for their balanced development, require better quality development to support the country. I'm going to start off with the basic questions that need to be in both laws, and they're supposed to be resolved by this law, they're more or less identical. The return of displaced and the promotion of population settlement. Professional and financial assistance in the preparation of development projects in the mountainous mountainous mountain range means that there is still a need to redefine the scope of mountainous mountainous areas, and the areas supported and supported for the sake of weaker financial power and some additional things. When we look at the scoreboard, it's practically identical, it's overwritten, which is perfectly logical. Law on assisted areas of '96. On the contrary, in almost all assisted areas, in almost all areas of the mountainous mountainous mountainous region in 2002, continued negative demographic, economic and social developments are recorded. So in 2002 it's 15 or 16 years, assisted areas for 20 years. The existing laws clearly come from what we read here, they didn't get the results for what they were brought here for. We have different examples. Different statistical indicators, however, I believe that the Ministry of Regional Development has statistics on what the situation in these parts was in the 1990s. We need to identify the causes, or reasons for what we are now trying to improve these laws. War-stricken areas. Through conversion and privatisation destroyed too many jobs and all of this by this law,... Each one has so far had the support of the economy, for support for demographic reconstruction, for building municipal infrastructure, is obviously not the problem. The problem is obviously something much bigger or something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to know that one better quality analysis is made that we know what we need to treat. We treat the patient all, and he only hurts in one place or two eventually, that's what I'd like to know. And I believe you have data through better analysis that you'll come up with reason and cause. Or he's generally fallen immunity. Who or how? I mean, I'm not a doctor, but we've all had some contact with the doctor, so he says you've fallen immunity for that and that's why. I cannot agree with part of the debate that certain areas have been taken away. In 2013, we became a full member of the EU, and we had to implement certain legislative proposals, bring them in line with the standards of a modern Croatian country as we all want, but we also want to do the same. Reading these bill proposals, one and the other, perhaps, some detail has nothing to add, it's all right, it's all right, but still that law hasn't answered the question of where pain is and what should we treat? I'm paraphrasing. What should we treat? Also when I said it would be very interesting in those parts which was 30, 40 years ago. Let's try to picture the map of Croatia in a picturesque way and see what the area is for both mountain-mounted and assisted areas. The mountain-mounted area immediately is a synonym of Gorski Kotar. It's more or less clear to everyone. The character, but unfortunately not all the parts, all the municipalities, all the administrative units aren't covered by these laws, which I think is wrong. You've got me what's close to me, in my vicinity, the neighboring local self-government is a mountain-mounted area. In 2002, she fell in, okay. Not because my colleague is the head of the same party, but we live together, is practically the difference from the centre of 8 km, and I know very well how much effort, how much financial resources, how much running for pre-accession funds, I mean, really a man would say simply in words, tear himself apart how to enrich the content, make it possible to stay. Negative demographic trends. So these aren't the measures we're going to get the result we're expecting. It's something else, but I don't know what it is either. Unfortunately, we have something further, 20 km away from another adjacent environment, the same mountain-mounted area, probably according to some criteria, which she had with these revenues as a mountain-mounted mountain, so I would say about 60% of the higher revenue of the budget than some other environments that were developing better. The decline in unemployment, the positive demographic trends, so it's not even money. Money isn't crucial. Do we have state secretaries, answers to these questions? What do you do? Of course, I agree with my colleagues who noticed in the debate with their colleagues, who are listing the law, and I get to the back page, and there's something missing. I am glad that we are on the parent board, the Committee on Regional Development, which has adopted the conclusion and I believe that it will be respected, that by the next reading, complete data will be complemented, means criteria for both one and the other laws which are areas that we know what we are discussing and that all these that are listed here are concrete, because I see what the interest is in all clubs, there is no policy here in terms of ideological matters, this is the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Our main goal is to have undeveloped areas so that tomorrow some other generations don't have to talk about it but to discuss other projects and things. Furthermore, it is of interest to all those who have given, have no basis for living, whether they have no living conditions, have to go looking for a job somewhere outside and expect it to come back. So our goal is to create assumptions for their return. Whether this is a housing solution, whether it is, however, the basis of all colleagues and colleagues, what is imposed in itself is business. Do I have somewhere to work? Do I have a place to secure my existence and my family? I'm sure that's one condition, basic, if there are any more, probably yes. I'd still like only to be bound by this law, although he hasn't fulfilled his expectations, it's done a lot of good. What may have been missing and I don't think it should work like that as much as that money has been spent more than it would have been by funding the basis of the Law on the financing of the local self-government unit that these units and the aided ones have received more than they belong to as other units of local self-government. I think we made an appointment here as a state. Some of them were building stadiums. Okay, soup. He didn't bring people back to that settlement. Some build promenades along some rivers. His citizens are running away because they have no business. We in the north have income per capital per capita 75% of the average Republic of Croatia. The unemployment rate is from 3% to 4%. We have positive demographic trends looking at the level of the region. In what sense are the positive ones? Somewhere we are, we vary, unfortunately, I wish more were born but we don't drop the number of those enrolled in the first grade of primary school. This is what I find positive when generally at the level of the Republic of Croatia is a negative trend. But people have a place to work. The question of the role of local self-government in implementing these two laws is great. I'm afraid whatever you bring me unless there's control, supervision by the rest of the ministry or by the authorities in which money is spent, and whether it's the justification of certain projects, whether they will result in what's intensities, the positive intensity of these laws. I'll paraphrase, kindergarten. Yeah. School, yeah. Is there an upgrade, a social or something that doesn't affect it? There's supposed to be an auditor or a controller who's going to say no, I can't finance that, I'm going to fund this for you, I can't fund this. No offense, because it's taxpayers' money from the Republic of Croatia. Now, if we asked the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who's in favor of this law, we'd all be in favor. Some of them from solidarity and some of them really feel Croatia as their own country. There are also those who might be let's say a little bit and envious to some, but it's short-lived. But if there is no controller, unless there are justified projects that produce results, I'm afraid again, however high-quality the law in the second reading is that he won't bring the expected results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93131	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93132	Of course, we will support the first reading, respecting this conclusion of the Committee on Regional Development to be completed with all the points proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93133	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to individual debates. And the first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93134	Thank you very much. Here we all agree on behalf of the clubs that this law is essentially a zero measure, said Prime Minister zero, nothing. Well, it would have been better if this 20 million + 80 million mountain-mounted mountain-mounted plus 80 million sent a Christmas letter if it had given the card or New Year's to local self-government because it wouldn't be spent so many administrations, so many papers just, meetings, zero meetings, zeroes, secretaries, zeros, nothing. Indicators of the Cetina province itself say that from 2005 to this year 13th grade of the first grade means first class. It's a picture, a moment of painting. What to invest in? And control. Because the fact that the assisted areas were given money to the mountain-mounted areas was not controlled. Some leaders used it positively, some negatively. But I am witness and opposition here and ruling that this is zero, nothing. I'd say here now, Prime Minister Plenkovic, nothing, here's what's here, what's the measure, what measure is listed here. What measure is indicated, 400 units of local self-government, 80% of the area? I live in this area of my colleague Boric, and I plan to stay in this area, live in Dalmatia Zagora, the same in Lika, is the same in the areas of Slavonia. When I go from Zagreb to Dalmatia, then I look, I turn to agriculture, there is no cattle. In the whole area is the biggest character, Straight Kotari, Skradin, Sibenik hinterland, Dalmatian Zagora, no cattle. There are no people. That's proof. I watch schools, sometimes in the nice places of the Dalmatian Burn, like, there were lots of kids, there was a baby cry. You can't hear a baby crying anymore. It's just that you can hear your parents crying at bus stations. There's no child's salary in maternity homes. Croatia is empty territory. Croatia is empty territory. All the conquerors who have passed through here have done less damage than has been done for those areas in the last 20, since the aftermath of the war. In the last 20 years here we all have witnessed who we come from these areas are empty. We only have nice promises. We have government meetings in Split where the Ravca-Drvenik project is promised, for the fourth time it is promised, 2, 3 times so far it has been opened but it is a lie and deception. There is no link that is a very important element in the development of the economic zone in which it is invested. It's an important element. I know, I see a colleague now, Šipic Klaric, is telling the data for the replica. But it's true that all investments, and I'm glad... Col. Šipić replicates but this is a fact, we will also visit the Sinjsko end and Triljski end, Cetinski end, Vrgorački end, all legpost, all the lighting, all the lights will not help if this is how the law continues to write in which more money has been spent in writing and PR, ministers, rather than what will be invested in those parts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why didn't it say here in those areas that we determine, that have specificity. They do, the state will finance a free kindergarten, those children, those local self-governments because these local self-governments have no opportunity to finance a free kindergarten. And that's a message to the young family to live, that's one measure small. Or what my colleague used to say on behalf of the GLAS Club, let's educate, we'll pay people we'll educate, young people to attract EU funds. This is a pamphlet, a nice letter you could send with this money you invested. You invested more in people who worked, officials, meetings and papers than you approved for 80% of units, local units in the Republic of Croatia, if we take the mountain-mountan, and we're talking about two laws and assisted areas, that's 304 units plus 445, that's 349 units that are mentioned in these two laws. And, of course, that I, as a man, represent, feel obliged to give the law, say, in the Dalmatian Zagora which is specific. It is not the same for Slavonia, which is demographically broken, targetedly broken and targetedly passed the Law on the sale of land to foreigners in 2020 and has been targeted in the law that foreigners can open the OPGs, which is why it is known that these areas are systematically and planically evicted. And it's not good to create local leaders from these areas dependent on executive authority. The measure I proposed to sell state property in these areas could allow mayors to go to local self-government 50% of the amount because local self-government mayors are obliged to make infrastructure to these properties, to land, not to be beggars in government and ministries. And then, of course, they have to take pictures, they have to organize parties where they will boast before the election of these political elites that are coming, they have to. This isn't a question of ideology, but they have to. It doesn't matter. I think we should decentralize and need specificity. I said in preparation for the Dalmatian Zagora Act because in 36 units of local self-government which were the two counties that were the greatest their potential was human potential. From 2011 to the end of 2015, 26 thousand children, 26 thousand inhabitants, were evicted. I'm just saying, here's how much less first-born there is in the Ceti region, and as far as it's in Lica, it's even more rapid and it's unconstitutional. There's no pay in maternity homes, no kids. Only parents at the bus station for Ireland. And of course we have these government sessions where we're promised roads, connections, and so every four years the code swallows the old tape that was in the old tape recorders and repeats the same story. Any government, no matter what ideological omen. And I'm part of the majority, I'll repeat, last year, in 2017, I didn't vote in favour of the budget because I gave the amendment to help mountain-mounted areas. As part of the majority. So it doesn't turn out that I'm saying it out of opposition right now. This isn't about ideology. Down people live all ideologies, worldview and nationality. I live in a village where there are people and Croats and Serbian nationalities. And everyone's leaving. Not in Bucky Palanco like a Pod, but they're leaving. Ireland, yes. The only thing we've become is a dump, which is an example of Lečevica. Even this, to preserve the environment as a center and that resource is harmful to us, this project will destroy our water or, like, these Peruns and similar projects that are bad. So, it's our obligation to make proposals and laws, I've made a proposal that 50% here today, 50% was on the board, but no one came from the Ministry, 50% of the sale of state property in local self-government areas remains that local self-government. They don't want to. Because they want the mayors and the mayors to be addicted to the state register and who has the card party, they're going to get something that keeps their backs, it's going to get something, it's that vertical, we have to be good, we have to wear prosciuttos, we have to, and that's how it works. Whether it's funny or funny to you, that's the truth. Plenkovic said, this is... There's nothing in there, we're all consensual, zero. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Here we all agree on behalf of the clubs that this law is essentially a zero measure, said Prime Minister zero, nothing. Well, it would have been better if this 20 million + 80 million mountain-mounted mountain-mounted plus 80 million sent a Christmas letter if it had given the card or New Year's to local self-government because it wouldn't be spent so many administrations, so many papers just, meetings, zero meetings, zeroes, secretaries, zeros, nothing. Indicators of the Cetina province itself say that from 2005 to this year 13th grade of the first grade means first class. It's a picture, a moment of painting. What to invest in? And control. Because the fact that the assisted areas were given money to the mountain-mounted areas was not controlled. Some leaders used it positively, some negatively. But I am witness and opposition here and ruling that this is zero, nothing. I'd say here now, Prime Minister Plenkovic, nothing, here's what's here, what's the measure, what measure is listed here. What measure is indicated, 400 units of local self-government, 80% of the area? I live in this area of my colleague Boric, and I plan to stay in this area, live in Dalmatia Zagora, the same in Lika, is the same in the areas of Slavonia. When I go from Zagreb to Dalmatia, then I look, I turn to agriculture, there is no cattle. In the whole area is the biggest character, Straight Kotari, Skradin, Sibenik hinterland, Dalmatian Zagora, no cattle. There are no people. That's proof. I watch schools, sometimes in the nice places of the Dalmatian Burn, like, there were lots of kids, there was a baby cry. You can't hear a baby crying anymore. It's just that you can hear your parents crying at bus stations. There's no child's salary in maternity homes. Croatia is empty territory. Croatia is empty territory. All the conquerors who have passed through here have done less damage than has been done for those areas in the last 20, since the aftermath of the war. In the last 20 years here we all have witnessed who we come from these areas are empty. We only have nice promises. We have government meetings in Split where the Ravca-Drvenik project is promised, for the fourth time it is promised, 2, 3 times so far it has been opened but it is a lie and deception. There is no link that is a very important element in the development of the economic zone in which it is invested. It's an important element. I know, I see a colleague now, Šipic Klaric, is telling the data for the replica. But it's true that all investments, and I'm glad... Col. Šipić replicates but this is a fact, we will also visit the Sinjsko end and Triljski end, Cetinski end, Vrgorački end, all legpost, all the lighting, all the lights will not help if this is how the law continues to write in which more money has been spent in writing and PR, ministers, rather than what will be invested in those parts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why didn't it say here in those areas that we determine, that have specificity. They do, the state will finance a free kindergarten, those children, those local self-governments because these local self-governments have no opportunity to finance a free kindergarten. And that's a message to the young family to live, that's one measure small. Or what my colleague used to say on behalf of the GLAS Club, let's educate, we'll pay people we'll educate, young people to attract EU funds. This is a pamphlet, a nice letter you could send with this money you invested. You invested more in people who worked, officials, meetings and papers than you approved for 80% of units, local units in the Republic of Croatia, if we take the mountain-mountan, and we're talking about two laws and assisted areas, that's 304 units plus 445, that's 349 units that are mentioned in these two laws. And, of course, that I, as a man, represent, feel obliged to give the law, say, in the Dalmatian Zagora which is specific. It is not the same for Slavonia, which is demographically broken, targetedly broken and targetedly passed the Law on the sale of land to foreigners in 2020 and has been targeted in the law that foreigners can open the OPGs, which is why it is known that these areas are systematically and planically evicted. And it's not good to create local leaders from these areas dependent on executive authority. The measure I proposed to sell state property in these areas could allow mayors to go to local self-government 50% of the amount because local self-government mayors are obliged to make infrastructure to these properties, to land, not to be beggars in government and ministries. And then, of course, they have to take pictures, they have to organize parties where they will boast before the election of these political elites that are coming, they have to. This isn't a question of ideology, but they have to. It doesn't matter. I think we should decentralize and need specificity. I said in preparation for the Dalmatian Zagora Act because in 36 units of local self-government which were the two counties that were the greatest their potential was human potential. From 2011 to the end of 2015, 26 thousand children, 26 thousand inhabitants, were evicted. I'm just saying, here's how much less first-born there is in the Ceti region, and as far as it's in Lica, it's even more rapid and it's unconstitutional. There's no pay in maternity homes, no kids. Only parents at the bus station for Ireland. And of course we have these government sessions where we're promised roads, connections, and so every four years the code swallows the old tape that was in the old tape recorders and repeats the same story. Any government, no matter what ideological omen. And I'm part of the majority, I'll repeat, last year, in 2017, I didn't vote in favour of the budget because I gave the amendment to help mountain-mounted areas. As part of the majority. So it doesn't turn out that I'm saying it out of opposition right now. This isn't about ideology. Down people live all ideologies, worldview and nationality. I live in a village where there are people and Croats and Serbian nationalities. And everyone's leaving. Not in Bucky Palanco like a Pod, but they're leaving. Ireland, yes. The only thing we've become is a dump, which is an example of Lečevica. Even this, to preserve the environment as a center and that resource is harmful to us, this project will destroy our water or, like, these Peruns and similar projects that are bad. So, it's our obligation to make proposals and laws, I've made a proposal that 50% here today, 50% was on the board, but no one came from the Ministry, 50% of the sale of state property in local self-government areas remains that local self-government. They don't want to. Because they want the mayors and the mayors to be addicted to the state register and who has the card party, they're going to get something that keeps their backs, it's going to get something, it's that vertical, we have to be good, we have to wear prosciuttos, we have to, and that's how it works. Whether it's funny or funny to you, that's the truth. Plenkovic said, this is... There's nothing in there, we're all consensual, zero. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93136	Thank you. Next, we actually have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you said that you travel daily from Sinj to Zgreb, that is, when you come to the Parliament, you traveled with me to Gorski Kotar, I remember you traveled to Zagorje. I don't know if you've seen one construction machine and one state investment in this area? It's a mountain-mounted area. I agree that the Ministry of Regional Development, regardless of the urgency that the adoption of this Law changes the development of this area towards a better place, should be sitting here today as prime minister and minister of regional development, but as well as other ministries that should give us an answer. Because watch what it says in the transitional and final provisions. The deadlines where the rulebook will be passed, where the program will be brought. Since it's 29th today, and this goes into effect all in 1.1, it means there's no how many, two or three months left, so I guess there are already some plans that some ministries should present, if not, as you say the PR, and then...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93138	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93139	Well... And talk about... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They need to disrespect him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They'll be sitting in an honorary shed on a Sinjski alci, coming to your top prosciutto, on a drjski prosciutto, my colleague Kovac is down regular, but there's no time... This is the law, but they're looking for votes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These two laws are empty, empty. The damage to the paper and the money you gave, nothing, nothing. This! What am I going to say now in the Cetitian province, the Dalmatian Zagora, what does this Law say? What did you suggest? Who are you sending to this people a message not to go to Ireland, not to dig another man's land, and not to guard another man's cattle? Nothing. There's no investment. They don't care. It's important that they keep the mayors and the mayors dependent and welcome them when they're saintly, that they can be painted, that the parishioners receive them, that they worship them, all together to worship them, and in such a way that they've contributed, here's to 10 million kuna for this project, for that project. And in fact, these areas have been devastated on purpose because of their own interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93140	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93141	Dear colleague Bulj, I am indeed a colleague of Šipić, when I answered for the replica, asking if you live in the town of Sinj or elsewhere. He said you lived in Suhač, and he belonged to the city of Sinj, and I answered the line because you said this was worth a zero. Just for a reason to remind you that you had a similar discussion and said the same thing when we talked about the Law on the financing of units of local self-government so-called. Maric's law and to remind you that according to this law that you said would be zero, the city of Sinj has received a slightly more than 20 million kuna increase in budget. Not only the city of Sinj but also Vrgorac and numerous other towns and municipalities in Gorski kotar and all other cities and municipalities. There's so much, it's not a roll call but just a reminder that the debate you've been having... It can also receive several million kunas of higher budget to local self-government units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93142	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93143	You're absolutely telling the truth that I can't hear the weight of one word. I supported it, I pushed it, I didn't support it in 2017, I commended it here, that it was one step that was good and I supported it and I voted for that law, you can simply check it out. So Ivan Šipic misinformed you, I'm here with the mayor, he's already five times then with the minister, I didn't support this budget when I was in the majority, you remember that. And that's where the story started. Yeah, I voted for that bill, but it's been taken from us for years, it's supposed to be pressed here, it's more than a fear of these attacks so someone in the Parliament doesn't say anything. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] At least that incentive was given to Todorovic and Bianca, those bank employees without cover, at least that part that was invested down towards the Dalmatian Zagora, Lica, Slavonia, those peasants but he didn't give us anything. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93144	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Velligay [[And the truth is that I voted for that law and supported it, you can check it because you're telling the truth.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93145	Thank you, Vice President. So here's my colleague Bulj, in his debate of the set you made on, I'm going to say moving out of these areas that we're discussing today and these are in this particular case mountainous area and that, number 1 of these laws, number 1 of these general regional policies should be preventing and moving out of these areas and creating conditions that the state should create for certain immigration into those areas to save those spaces. We with the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units, which is here today, many times mentioned by the ruling ones, have not solved the problem. Yeah, they got local self-government units a lot more money, and a certain macroeconomic solution has been changed, but if it's the only law we're dealing with, then what are we discussing today in this law? Then we should have included it in the Law on the financing of local self-government units, then we don't need regional development in this way at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93146	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93147	So I agree with you that under the urgent measures of returning people to Croatia, so we can freely start now, half of the country has gone unfortunately to the young in Ireland, I repeat the daily departure of buses mainly from these underdeveloped areas because we do not solve important problems. We only have PR agencies that direct certain ministers and government to have government meetings on the ground that essentially solve nothing or anything other than repeat projects like Ravca-Drvenik which opened in 2005, should be closed in 2008 and again in 2009. We simply this law is zero, zero, nothing is mentioned, zero. This is the PR law and this is a huge damage to how much it worked on this law, how much paper was spent to send a card to undeveloped mayors and those parts that had been paid into the budget of that money, would have been much smarter and more useful than just dealing with the PR agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93148	Thank you. We are now going to individual debates and the next one will be a respected representative of Tomislav Liposčak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93149	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There are two legislative proposals before us, the Law on assisted areas, which it actually has for the first time received its own legal solution and the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, in fact the new text of the law, since the past was extremely missing especially because of the numerous changes that took place over the years. Equal regional development, actually one mantra that we often repeat all these years but also with a number of efforts, with a number of solutions and attempts so far, did not occur expected shifts. Unfortunately, in all almost assisted and mountain-mounted areas, we find continued negative demographic and economic trends and would place a particular emphasis here on demographic trends that are actually the main driver and trigger of all events and events in a particular area whether they go in a negative or positive direction. And that is why I welcome both the government's intention and the ministry to try to move things towards the better. The old solutions were obviously missing, in particular underlining the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, which became virtually only a dead letter on paper after numerous changes. As a plastic example, he would have listed his city, the city of Ogulin. Let us remind ourselves that in 2014, the then government of Zoran Milanovic caused a revolution of all local self-government units in these areas by amending the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. We have virtually no more than free picking of forest fruits and certain benefits for renting agricultural land and hunting grounds. If you remember, then more than 500 Gorans protested in Mark's square and then a petition was handed over with more than 11,000 signatures for the rescue of Gorski Kotar. At that time, we ran out of income from profit tax, 25% in the first round, and in 2015, we were taken from those 75%, and in fact, those legal decisions were the most profitable, or the state budget was earned, but citizens in particular from these units of local self-government received very little. The city of Ogulin has lost more than 20% of its budget revenues due to changes to the laws of the country, but also those mentioned legal solutions, we heard here today some other local self-government units have lost a lot more. These legal proposals by the units and the regional local self-government are being appointed as holders of planning and management in their fields, and in fact, here we come to the most important work, the most important works in both that legislative proposals and these are programmes. A sustainable social and economic development programme for assisted areas and a mountain-mounted development programme. It's just that these programs, we can say the alpha and omega of these laws, and it's exactly them that depends on the overall success of these laws themselves in the future. Only good programmes, high quality and timed through the implementation of annual implementation plans can guarantee certain changes that will go in a positive direction, i.e. towards better. The law clearly defines the deadlines that follow according to the adoption. The programme itself must be adopted 90 days from the entry into force of the Law, and the central authorities of the state administration shall have 60 days from the adoption of the State budget for the adoption of individual implementation plans which then submit to the Ministry which, within 90 days of the adoption of the State budget, must adopt annual implementation plans. Of course, that doesn't mean that these deadlines don't have to be shorter and shorter, but in our interest, we think all units of local self-government and regional self-government are in the best interest of these plans being made as soon as possible. This Law also defines compensation for protected areas of nature from the income of public institutions, and additional measures are also directed towards employment in assisted areas, in particular for deficits. I would stress here that these measures, which are envisaged in the employment of deficits, really need to be really concrete, to be attractive for reasons that, in other areas that are much more attractive in other areas, which are much more acceptable for the design of working relationships and for life, in certain occupations of examples of medical or health professions, we also have problems in keeping people in these areas, so that I would point out once again that these measures have to be concrete in order to really keep people in those areas. This also provides for certain tax reliefs and so on. Green public procurement, housing that is regulated by a special law that is on the agenda tomorrow, and then more and more detail about it tomorrow. The summary of everything is that the programs themselves are the key to this Law and on these programs this Law passes or falls. It is precisely about them, about their quality, about their quality of design and implementation that depends on whether we are going to talk to this Law through a year or two in a positive or negative sense, or whether we are going to say that they were unsuccessful as, we could say, these laws before them or have made a certain shift and progress towards the better. So once again, I welcome this legislative proposal, and I only hope that with these legislative proposals and solutions, that is to say, quality programmes, we will still move towards better and be more successful than we have been with the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93150	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Lipovskak. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Damir Mateljan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lipovšak, you mentioned the government of the SDP and how in 2015, in fact, it took away funds from mountain-mounted areas. You forgot to say that the SDP government also adopted the first Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area in 2002 and you forgot to say that the Government of Zoran Milanović in 2015 enabled the 264 units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, the poorest units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, to triple the budget increase and to predict for 2016 60 million kuna compensations for mountainous and mountainous areas which your governments did not realize, and therefore called the Law offers 20 million kuna for a double number of local self-government units that will allegedly be in the mountainous and mountainous area. I ask you to give me no 5, here are at least two concrete measures stemming from this Law, two concrete activities and two concrete sources of funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93152	I'd like to thank my colleague Matteljan. Answer, fellow Liposchack.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93153	My fellow Mateljan, I thank you for your extensive education and for the time sequence of law-making. Speaking of the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, referring to this part of 2014, I took a first look back at what we had left in this Law and why the need was, or why this Law was, in the form it was actually less important or much less, covered it. As for these 20 million kunas, we've heard that a few times today in the assembly and Mr. Secretary of State has been answering several times. I don't know if it makes sense to repeat it, but this measure, we all know it's not enough, but it's not only one mosaic of various other measures in synergy with direct capital aid to local self-government units, incentive measures, tax solutions, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93154	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Lipošak, for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93155	Dear counterpart Lipoščak, it is important to stress that this Law is not by itself a Law that will solve the problems of assisted areas and mountainous areas. And you mentioned correctly, all the problems that arose under that law that came into force in 2015, so-called Milanovic's government. At that time, more than 155 million kunas were taken from municipalities and cities, and we were all active participants. But let's look at the other thing we brought last year and what was voted in the budget. So the municipalities and cities got a billion and a half kuna. Of which 500 million were returned to these very areas, the cities of the hill-mounted and assisted area. And this is only one in a series of packages of measures of this government to help this area. I believe that it is not the only one and the last and that there will be more because these areas primarily need to be taken care of by the population that should remain living in that area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93156	Thank you, colleague Klaric. Answer me, fellow Liposchack, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93157	Thank you. Comrade Klaric, we've actually repeated what we've heard several times here. I am saddened only by the attitude when individual legal proposals that always go on in terms of improvement, because I doubt anyone is making legal proposals with the intention of going backwards, always criticising in a way that is not enough. Every day we pass laws in the field of demographics, so here and here, which actually complement one image step by step and try to actually help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93158	I thank you for your response to my colleague, Lipošak. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93159	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Lipoščak, if from the area where I come from citizens would see where you live they'd say it's nice here and it's much better and it's nicer and better to live than in mine, or vice versa, if they came from your area down then they'd say you know the square of land I don't know in Makarska, Vreli, it's worth more than with you, it's far easier for you to make one scale to make us all happy. I'm sure this 20 million or 85 would make it better if it were 2 billion, if it were 2 billion, I don't know if we'd be satisfied then. It is good to go in this direction and I welcome the ministry's efforts and proposals to pass these laws, but we need to look at a wider picture and don't forget that in a package of tax measures and funding from local self-government units, the laws on agricultural land have been considered on the development and sustainable programmes of units of local self-government. Is that enough? It's not. And if it had to be better, I'm sure it would.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93160	I thank my colleague Babic. The answer of my colleague, Lipošak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93161	I agree completely with you, and I would particularly look back at this part of where you said it was hard to make a scale for everyone to be satisfied, especially by comparing different ends, each end has its own specific features, each end has its own specific modes of operation and those parts that make people live there, or stay there. That is why I believe that, as I have said, the programmes are the key in these laws and the roles of the units of local self-government in creating these programs will be great because it will provide an opportunity for every single unit of local self-government that, through its specific needs not once, let's say, with an urban or some general plan with concrete proposals and solutions take part in the creation and creation of a programme that is precisely in their specific area of fruit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93162	I would like to thank my colleague Lipošak for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague of Lipoščak, you've listed the main specifics of these legal proposals. On the trail of what counterpart Babic said that it must also be seen wider, so as far as regional development is concerned, a package of measures including the government's tax policy must be seen and how it affects it. On that same trail, I would like to mention something that may not have been said so far, and that is also the role of state or public companies that also use resources from which local self-government is in the area, and it is important to see how they might return better or better local self-government benefits from exploiting these resources. I think it's also one element that can contribute to this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93164	I thank my esteemed colleague Stier. No answer, thank you very much. Next debate, dear colleague Ivan Šipic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If both laws are a proposal, then they offer a framework, not concrete measures. What is important is that the specific programme and other activities will be specifically developed by these laws, then a patient and reasonable approach to this very important topic is needed. Because it seems to me that we are witnessing today's debates, which is very often happening, one sea of populist approach that is not only at the limits of unwise, but is at the borders and offensive. You've seen people's names, people's names, untrues, false data, etc., etc. what is called the people who are 10, 11, 15 years in the executive office of local self-government, how they are easily disrespected, called from these booths, and these people were chosen by someone. These people are despite the heavy, these mountainous and assisted areas and living conditions, these people live with these people. So I'd like to ask my colleagues to keep an eye on what they call their colleagues and in what way. The media is the Internet, the media is the face, the media is all kinds of posts, and it's the ones that are calling today that I like to paint myself too, so come in and get on their Facebooks, and you'll see if they've been painting and publishing... and fought with law, fought for some of their projects in their local environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, isn't it normal for all those who call leaders for non-transparentity, not to bring out data, that these people publish what they're doing? So it's perfectly normal because we're guilty when we don't publish, when we don't give information, and we're guilty when we say what's done. Therefore, it would be good not to call his colleagues in the wrong way because it will not do any good in the area from which he comes, nor will it bring any concrete measure, no shift, nor is it any proposal to today's talks, specifically on future measures that will inherit these proposals of the law. So I said it wasn't the most ideal solution, and we all said, both opposition and power, and even the government in its arguments in the opening statement said that the steps so far have not come to fruition. And that the new measures provided for through the programmes and the legal framework of these bill proposals should be improved, so the government itself said that it should take a step and she is aware of that and that is exactly what is going on. But that the best and the smartest and the most beautiful solution is not. That it's the most optimal, it's not. But I will come back again, when we perform, then let's have a grain, as we in Dalmatia say dignity to people who represent someone. Because if you're chosen, I'm chosen and these people are chosen. Mr. Bully, I have never spoken to you in a single word, ever, when you spoke or I will descend to that level. A lot of analysis shows that every unnecessary and unfounded story and false approach will not bring results, and in particular it will not help our people in these areas. Many are the problems that plague us in these parts, emigration, demographic decline, poorer growth and development. What is visible and I said that the government admits that another step is needed. It's nice to realize projects of wider social intentions, communal infrastructure, but what bothers us, here I am going to be as open as I've always been to the workplace. It's a new job. We do, we who are colleagues, Pranic, every day announces what he does for a new job, and I bark at him for what he does for a job, what he does for his end. Is that populism or man doing and publishing, no, for me no, but he just said what he did. Here's without any intrusion, and I confess to him every work and step to the Imotski end and to the Vrgorje end and the Cetin end or any other end. So call it pulsism and call it painting, I think it's pretty small and low and offensive for people who do their job. To implement this law on local self-government, full and thorough access to all ministries that can offer solutions co-ordinatedly. So I'm gonna skip one piece now so I don't repeat myself. These laws are as we heard the first reading and did not as I said, the final solution to the legislative framework. A great deal of effort and coordination will be needed to bring about the measures announced to bring about the light of day and to produce fruit. A lot of measures. But the fact is that we from mountain-mounted and assisted areas can still be easier to report to many competitions in recent times, but it's easier to get to the ministries not only to paint, but it's easier to get results and it's measurable, and it's someone seeing and it's someone watching and it's work. And, of course, when we come from our local community that I'm a little bit tighter and I'll see what's going on in my court and my brother-in-law and not my neighbor's. And I should take a look there too. So our area of the cetin end, truth, colleague Bulj, that we are aware of many bad indicators and we do not run from it but no one has the right to say that the people responsible in those places and who make up executive power, that these people are doing nothing. I can't admit it to anyone. With all the gaps and flaws I have personally and my colleagues working from the south, north, like all the way up to Vukovar, the job. Save it for God's sakes that this stand of mine would smell a little of pulsism and pure demagogy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93166	I thank my esteemed colleague, Šipić, I would like you to stick to the subject more in the debates and a little less in these other things. We have a few replicas. The first replica of a respected colleague, Marko Vedligaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93167	Thank you. So here's my colleague, Šipic, in your debate, you said that this law framework. I can't figure it out now, if our laws become frameworks, then why all this debate? What's the big deal about this law, all those thematic sessions? Citizens expect some concrete measures from us. Well, I'll admit, the Law on the financing of local self-government units has concrete measures. Unfortunately, this law does not exist because in this particular case, citizens are living in mountainous and mountainous areas expected certain measures that would normally drive them to stay there and some may even move into those areas. Also, we expected certain measures to solve the problems that local units have faced despite these assets that they have received and we see that they have not received them all, certain financial resources to solve them, the rinks, the solving of agricultural land, the problems of winter service, the unclassified road, I speak normally from my point of view. So our laws can't just be frameworks. The laws must contain certain measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93168	I'd like to thank my colleague, Vesligai. Answer, Comrade Šipic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93169	Thank you very much. Truth fellow, I agree that our laws should be frameworks, I didn't mean them in a plastic sense that it was a frame. You know what a frame is. We have a frame and it's cemented. But here we are only talking about the direction and direction taken by the government through the resolution ministry, which should take concrete measures. In that sense, I thought that he was the foundation and also your colleagues in the debate, in the whole range of disagreements in the debates, in all clubs, it was so freely seen that, with this framework to say so again, it took concrete and measure. And I firmly hope and believe that we will get these measures and that we will see what is especially coming for certain areas. I don't doubt that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93170	I would like to thank my colleague Šipic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93171	Comrade Šipić, we come from the same neighborhood and of course you should not have felt called because I did not invoke this law of general interest, unfortunately there is no other than the framework of concrete measures. That's a fact. I've been proposing measures, and here we have today a law that was in the process that 50% of the assets from the sale of state property remain mayors and commissioners that they don't have to be beggars. I think it's one measure that's minor but the measure could have been written in this whole thing, that kindergartens are co-financed in these areas of the state, so the state will co-finance, and not here wrote 20 million for mountainous mountainous and 80 million for assisted areas, it's a total of 350 units of local self-government. How many meetings, clerks, papers, no measures? There's zero here, zero, that's what I'm asking you. What measure is mentioned here? None. He'll be there. So this was supposed to be a law with special features of these areas. That's why I said I'd propose the law. [[/Upadica Brkić: I thank my colleague Bulj. The answer of my colleague, Šipić, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93172	.../Intruding Brkic: I thank my colleague Bulj. The answer of my colleague, Šipić, please...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Bulj, we'll agree in this piece, and I appreciate this approach to the replica because she's really coming back to us and bringing us back to the core of the debate. So we expect, as I said to my colleagues now, that through this further development, we will say and an analysis of the approach to solving the final second reading, that through the debate and concrete demands we will get, as you have recently boasted that you participated in that work to get all those funds through... I believe that all of us will find a good proposal, a concrete proposal that will be acceptable to this ministry, and thus to the government for a second reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93174	I would like to thank my colleague Šipic for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Lipoščak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93175	Comrade Šipić, you were talking about demeaning the head and calling. You, as head of the local self-government unit, know very well what it means to attract investment in your city and how much effort and resourcefulness is needed to make such investments real and even if it means taking pictures, whatever someone calls it. Every new job, every new investment, especially in areas supported, i.e. mountainous mountainous areas of gold, is worth and precisely these legal proposals are still opening the door for it to go in a much better direction. And so once again, please, don't let yourself be provoked by... For taking pictures, calling beggars because your results speak enough for you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93176	I would like to thank my colleague, Lipošak. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93177	Thank you, colleague Šipic, for his commendation, but here is a concrete measure to help our Dalmatian Zagora, and I am convinced that you will absolutely give support to the parliamentary majority, i.e. to use your parliamentary authority to do so. In fact, we talked to the tourism ministry every year about the competition for the development of events. Since it is a mountainous mountainous area, and since we know what Switzerland has done from its mountainous mountainous area, as it has revitalised the Alps, I hope that next year the Ministry of Tourism will discuss one competition exclusively for mountainous mountainous areas, and not that half a million kunas are granted as we have said Ultra in Split, about 20, 30, 30,000 of us, and we should now develop rural tourism in our area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93178	I thank my colleague Pranic. The answer of my colleague, Šipic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93179	Well, yeah, we were discussing coffee because we always talk about everything and everything openly, and I really believe that it will happen that some more positioned politicians have spoken more evenly about development and approach, so I believe that this ministry, yes, Mr. Bulj, I believe because it's not about me writing and deciding, you know very well. So don't get into my word, but mountainous mountainous areas, and for these manifestations, both in your country and in our area, it's been noticed that local self-governments are about to raise quality in the tourist offer, attract, here's our end of the list of 12% more nights now than in the last year and 3% more in arrivals. So there's something going on after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93180	I would like to thank my colleague Šipic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93181	Thank you, dear fellow Shipic. So... on populistism, and there is no greater populistism than the credible HDZ programme. You've done a lot of work there, among other things, saying that you're going to open 180 000 jobs, that you're going to start an agrobank, that you're going to cut the waiting lists, that's what it says in your program, and I'm going to underline it to you, and I'm going to show you where it says it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not only have you not reduced the waiting lists below six months, at least it says, but you are unable to organize an ambulance, people are dying because of your incompetence. The waiting lists are, if you didn't know, for over a year. And they keep going on and on. Read Minister Kujundzic's report coming to the Parliament. So if you're looking for a reason why young people move out, they're moving out because of you, because of HDZ, because of your policies, by the way, and publicly speaking in the media, it's not like you're not following the media when you're following Facebook that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93182	Thank you very much, Comrade Bunjac. You haven't said a word about what we're talking about today. So you've been screwing around so I don't tell you what. ... Okay, I said, don't rephrase me, please, I would ask you and all the other colleagues and colleagues to stick to the subject, and you have nothing to rephrase, unless you have something by [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Unless you have something on this subject. [[Intruder Šipić: I'm just going to be vice president.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93183	Vice President, I'll just agree with you. During all the exhibitions, Mr. Bunjac slept and slept through all the exhibitions today. So this reaction, his replica is consistent with his behavior because I've been here all day. So the absolute thread was tracking, or answering. So according to today's approach to these very important topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93184	Thank you very much, colleague Šipić, I don't know when you saw him sleeping, I wasn't there, so maybe he is, but please, if he is, it's not yours to say it like that to a colleague. He has a very good code of conduct within the Croatian Parliament and knows how to behave, I am sure that my colleague Bunjac would not allow it. Here's my colleague Bulj, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93185	Yes, you've hurt, Your Honor, Article 33, because you're in an item that says you have to worry about protecting your rights and... The duties of a representative, the rights of a representative to perform a replica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the replica was referred to by Mr. Bunjac's populism. And it's true what he said there are 180 thousand jobs but in Ireland. So the only thing they didn't add to what state. So you have violated the Rules of Procedure because you must defend the right of a parliamentary representative to be on a colleague, a replica mentioned by populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93186	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Besides, the Rules of Procedure know who decides, it certainly wasn't you, I told my colleagues what I had to say. On the basis of Article 240, I give you a reminder by taking away the words because you have abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on. Next replica, respected counterpart Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93187	Dear counterpart Šipic, speaking of the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, as a framework, Mr Bulj, I replicate Mr. Šipic, you mentioned several key things. So in law as a frame. In your debate, you devoted time to that part of populism. We just saw two such fresh examples. So don't fool yourself with a team like that. These are people who, behind whom there is virtually nothing that Mr. Bull's Zero or a zero just said. And behind you as mayor of the municipality and the city in the hill-mounted area, you know very well what is behind you and the water and sewerage and the business zone. And every kuna paid out of your city budget that you personally signed. So it's something that stands behind you and behind those and such is nothing. And it's absolutely pointless to mention in the debates because we're just wasting our time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93188	I thank my esteemed colleague, Klaric. The answer of my colleague, Šipic? No, I don't. Thank you very much. We move on to the next debate of dear colleague Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93189	I would like to thank the Vice President, the honourable representatives of the ministries. I have to point out that I don't suffer from greatness, so I understand that the minister has work to do and has to be somewhere else, and I believe that you will convey to her in detail all of our suggestions that we have on these laws, and I have no doubt about it at all. I honestly must admit, when I first saw the proposal sent to the Parliament in summer, I was slightly shocked. Because definitely not that I wasn't satisfied, but all my fellow mayors and mayors from my Krapina-Zagorje County were also confused with what happened to the Croatian Parliament and even in such a way that they spoke, so you won't be wasting your time and discussing a law in which there is no concrete measure, concrete goal or concrete thing to be done. The first thing that confuses all of us together and these are the concrete parameters that should be in the law on which it is possible to know how many units of local self-government that will enter the mountain-mounted space in the first place. It was known in the towers that there would be 70, 100, 130, 170. It would be nice if we had at least in some way, as stated in the Law on Islands, which units of local self-government fall under that law, it would be very good if we had some more specific parameters. Those criteria, which are now mentioned, mean altitude, slope, vertical dismemberment, climate and other specificities. There is one criterion for me that has to be respected and that former Law on mountainous and mountainous areas that has been adopted, which in some ways brought an injustice, which is that it did not actually look at the number of inhabitants at a certain altitude, so it was known to happen, i.e. I have a specific municipality in my county, it is the municipality of Petrovsko, which actually has a majority of its population at higher altitudes, there are in areas that are difficult to reach, which should have been done by paved roads, which should have been made possible by public lighting that children could safely reach school but simply had no even a little higher mountain above them, it had plenty of lowland areas where there were not so many inhabitants and, unfortunately, they are not even in that first round when it was in the mountain-mount area. And when you look at the population's density at altitude I think you should definitely be among the higher ones on the scales that go into it. So I'm suggesting it's one of the criteria for necessarily being watched. What also confuses me, from these criteria, which means demographic elements. Does demographic elements mean that it will be seen where greater population is now, where greater population of young families with some prosperity and any future where people will be able to stay, build their families, or watch mostly nursing settlements where we can be honest that they will be able to return to life again. So that should definitely take care of it, I often know how to say, it must not be our goal to have 3.4 seats around larger cities that are inhabited and the rest of the desert Croatia. Because I enjoy living on the banks of Zagorje and I know that many enjoy but unfortunately until they have a road that can reach their own house. I understand young people who simply descend into bigger places because the simple quality of life they have is unfortunately not enough. And frankly not that it would hurt my heart but it would be terrible if our beautiful Zagorje banks remained empty and the vast majority of our settlements were actually high. This is where we come to winter and winter service and everything. Several villages this winter, of course in Gorski Kotar and Lica were cut off, everyone also talked about Gorski Kotar and Lica, few who talked about Zagorje where the same situation happened where the army did not come to help. The residents were imprisoned for three or four days until they were able to clear the road so the children could go to school. After all, the urgent service itself, the happiness of God, so that no emergency occurred to those people who were in those high settlements simply could not come. When I read the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, I somehow pulled a parallel with the Island Law. Why did I do that? Because in the same way as the islands are specific, the mountain-mounted areas are also specific. Another municipality in my Krapina-Zagorje County is the Zagorska Sela which literally, I can say, works in a way like an island. There's no public bus line or anything people can come to the hospital with. So, some nursing home that doesn't have a car, kids don't live with them, you need to look for friends or someone if you need to get to the hospital and they need more than an hour. So in some way by looking at the Law on Islands and the Law on Mountains, seeing that the Islands Act has 51 units of local self-government and gets 208 million kunas a year, the Hill and Mountains Act has 20 million kunas planned, we still don't know what number. That should definitely take a little more detail into analysis and help. What I've noticed, and the big problem is in Zagorje, I believe in other parts of the Republic, which is in the Island Laws there, I've found an item in the budget that exists for the collection of cadastres and land books. So, on islands and in the coastal part of the Republic of Croatia, it is generally the value of the land itself, which is 10, if not more times this land is more expensive and valuable than the land in Zagorje and the surrounding Zagorje. When municipalities begin to take care of the cadastre and all these papers, they need a total of 2.5 million kuna for one catastrian municipality or more. If you take these units' budgets as local self-government three, four million kunas, that's impossible for them. That they go in a way to ask people to co-finance, means to fix those books, so come on, let people co-finance, let me know which person for their 2,000 kuna plots will give 2.5 thousand kunas to take care of the papers? Unfortunately, that's not going to happen with us, as long as on the islands people will be in the interest of taking care of the papers because they'll be able to sell their country for a significantly higher figure, so I think that's another one of the items that they should definitely consider. You said you were going to listen to our proposals and this isn't the final version of the law, so I'm going to go on these specific things to have some basis and think about it, about these book arrangements, I definitely think you should think about it. It has already been said today, and I definitely support it, that there should be some help for these units of local self-government related to the implementation of European projects. So they're trying, writing projects, but there's a problem when, say, it's over now... One, two, seven million kunas should be co-financed 10% or 15%, it is a fairly large figure for one small local self-government, so that there is some transition period while they have to co-finance themselves, to help them in this way, because ultimately, it is all in order to make as much use of EU funds as possible, and one way could definitely be a fund that would help these local self-government units get as much money out of the EU as possible, that it is not the state that will have to help them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Incentive to competitiveness and growth of entrepreneurship, I also think, as will be done on the islands, that this should also be done in mountainous and mountainous areas because simply those entrepreneurs who are brave and bold enough to have a production company in the area, when you take up maintenance, heating, winter service and all that together, need help and will be even more competitive and even better in all this together. I said earlier in my replica that hilly, local self-government units in hill-mounted areas about four years ago were literally thrown on their knees overnight, many are still recovering and have not recovered until the end. Some were fortunate to have been satisfied, to have been able to settle their budgets, but unfortunately they were not all. And I wouldn't want this law to stay the way it is, one frame. I would like it to be one concrete law, one good law that will really be a good tool, after all, if units of local self-government will have more money, they will invest more in municipal infrastructure and people will remain in these areas. Let's not let the Republic of Croatia have four areas that are inhabited and the rest of the desert land.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93190	I thank my esteemed colleague Maria Puh. Next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93191	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, all these three laws that are in our debate today, about islands, about mountainous and assisted areas, I truly believe that all of us here in the assembly want these laws to be as good as possible and that the conditions of life on the islands, in mountainous and assisted areas are worthy of the quality of life in the 21st century. As you know, I come from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County where we have islands and mountainous mountainous areas and you can imagine how complicated it is for a county institution such as home of health or emergency medical care to ensure that the same conditions are on the island of Mali Lošinj and in one Cabra, and this is the task of such laws and we must say that the strategy represents a framework, and the law represents a tool that must be made possible through concrete measures and activities to promote the development of units of local self-government, in this case in mountainous and assisted areas. Therefore, when we, out of opposition today, try to express criticism at the expense of these legal proposals, they are indeed well-intentioned for the simple reason of the first reading and what is possible until the second reading to make these two laws and the previous islands more lifelike. So what is missing from these laws, which was agreed by the Secretary of State when he compared these two laws to the Law on Islands with concrete measures, saying that these are new laws and that the creation of new laws may not have taken place in the first reading those most concrete measures that will ensure and encourage the development of mountainous and mountainous areas, which at this time these legislative proposals lack. Therefore, I think that no one must be angry when we say that both legislative proposals are undefined in general because they come down to implementation through the development programme and sublaws that have yet to be passed. So maybe it was better that we already had those sublegal acts already today if we could evaluate both legal proposals in one more objective way. Two articles to choose from all of what I consider to be very important is Article 7(3) of the local self-government unit, which is particularly threatened by demographics. Therefore, the units of local self-government which, under the provisions of this Act, acquire the status of the mountain-mounted area are classified as three groups, according to geographical features, natural and other specificities referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and according to the development index of a specific law governing regional development. Therefore, the classification according to the criteria set out in the definition of mountainous and mountainous areas and the development index except for the first group where, in addition to the criteria of the development index, the criteria of the units of local self-government which are particularly endangered were also spoken of by a colleague of the Puh, however, it is unclear that those criteria will be valorised or based on which they will be identified as local units. Therefore, we believe that Article 7(3) of this Act should lay down criteria that will take into account when determining the status of particularly demographically threatened units of local self-government. As regards Article 12, measures and projects for the development of mountainous and mountainous areas shall be followed. The measures and projects for the development of mountain-mounted areas shall be determined by the programme of the development of mountain-mounted areas, by the provisions of this law and by other regulations aimed at encouraging the development of mountain-mounted areas. So that's what's missing all the time, and that's why we point out that this whole legal package is inconclusive. The concept of the law therefore comes down to a programme of development and sublegal acts that are yet to be passed and there are no concrete measures that are essential for the development of mountainous and mountainous areas that everyone here would like to see today, because I believe that even citizens who are following our debate, who will read these laws, would like to know what measures will be to ensure a greater quality of life in them. So here, for example. We believe that, in Article 12 of the Law, where projects and measures other than the development programme are envisaged, measures should be included which are local units with mountain-mounted status, in this case. The mountain cotter, in previous initiatives, has already stood out. So this is to cover the costs of the winter service and the rehabilitation of roads caused by climate conditions, the rehabilitation of impact caves, for example, and the free toll on highways towards Zagreb and Rijeka as an incentive for young families to stay living in the area of Gorski kotar, subsidising public transport, the following, amending the rules relating to the separation of land from the forest-economic base in the part of the regulation and release of payment of the amount of compensation for the settlement of property-legal relations in the Ministry of State property for local units with the status of mountain-mountan area. We also believe that this Article 12 requires the provision of payment of fair municipal fees for capital national corridors and facilities in the mountainous and mountainous areas such as the pipeline, gas pipeline, power line, accumulating lakes, and we are particularly sorry that it is missing and we are asking for it to be introduced, it is co-financed by the directorial costs and salaries of teachers in primary schools in the mountain and mountainous area, including primary schools with less than 5 pupils. Of course, it is very important to ensure effective primary health care in the mountainous and mountainous areas and to specify what measures will be taken as well as the availability of mangers and kindergartens in the mountainous and mountainous areas, as well as the relief for entrepreneurs operating in mountainous and mountainous areas, the reduced rate of pay for profit taxes. And what I said at the outset, the Secretary of State did not arrive in the reply, in the earlier proposal of the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, was a provision on a mountain card for all natural persons who have residences in the mountain-mounted area, and now unfortunately, in this proposal, it is left out and I appeal to add a special article on the mountain card in which paragraph 1. any natural person residing in the mountain-mounted area would be entitled to a mountain card for the purpose of exercising rights and privileges in the public transport system, second, rights and privileges belonging to the holders of a mountain card will be regulated by a regulation and third, the means to exercise the rights of a mountain card shall be provided in the state budget of the Ministry responsible for road transport. Here I have singled out these two articles wanting to show constructiveity in the direction of second reading when I hope this law also has these two concrete measures but also others that will be mentioned in this debate in order to really provide a legal tool that will improve the quality of life and allow for the remaining of all those people in the mountainous and assisted areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93192	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93193	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the ministry. I will, according to my individual debate in this law, touch a few topics from not so long ago and point to something that definitely doesn't lead to good unless such solutions are approached without considering the consequences that will happen. So if we're talking about a package of these laws, I'm going to touch what I most know and it's about the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area with that and my VII. The Electoral Unit and the Gorski Kotar and observing what has been happening for the last 18 years since the independence of the Republic of Croatia with these municipalities and cities in the area. So we had certain specificities that each of their settlements, every city and municipality in the area of today's Gorski Kotar and the units of local self-government that were created informed in '94. Each municipality, each unit of local self-government had economic operators in terms of furniture factories, wood mills, ski factories in Delnice, employed people and, in some ways, made significant incomes for its population. After that we come to the first law on mountainous mountainous areas when all these units of local self-government look at the situation in which they were found, just given some convenience. We have a situation and an example of a specific municipality of Fužina and the municipalities of Lokva and accumulating lakes in the area. The cities and municipalities in the area were regulated for these economic operators who took up their space through the dam, the lakes, the accumulations in the area charged a municipal fee. With one move, the income of these municipalities is gone. Budgets halved, simultaneously halved and demographic image and two municipalities. This was the concrete consequence of such a decision. When the law was passed, in 2014, which came into force in 2015, and I warned from this place about what was going to happen, what would be the consequences of such thinking of the law, but irrelevantly about what I was saying, even more important than what the otherwise peaceful tops who were then found here on Mark's square, all the leaders of the local self-government units and... where they warned of the consequences of such thinking of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was taken from them only in the Gorski Kotar 55 million kuna. What does that mean for a municipality or city that lives, survives, maintains miles and miles of unclassified roads in winter conditions, if you individually take one, two, three or five million kunas? I also warned myself and a number of MPs here about the illogicality of the development index because the budgets of these units of local self-government, it was the most important criterion, shared with the population and then it turned out that the municipality of Lokva was more developed than the city of Crikvenica and under that criterion they could not meet these conditions. What I welcome and what needs to be supported is a systematic solution to this problem. In his debate, Šipic mentioned one of the puzzles of these laws that should be passed by these rules, so if the tax reform of 2014 that came into force in 2015 again points out, both the first and the second and the third times and the tenth times, it has to be pointed out constantly because there is something that has caused damage and what should be avoided in the future, regardless of who has committed it. If so quickly adopted tax reform, units, cities and municipalities in assisted areas, around 155 million kunas were seized in the area of Gorski Kotar. You can imagine the consequences of such a decision. We have another thing to support and continue in that direction anyway. If by law on the financing of units of local self-government we have returned to cities and municipalities in the total amount of these billions and a half kuna, 500 million kunas are just aimed at these areas. If now with this bill of law, and we see in it that specifically for my area of coastal-goran County has actively participated with both objections and suggestions and that most of them and... This bill of law, some of which took note of further procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's one of the additional indicators that such a bill and such a strategy should be supported. And whoever is saying that 20 million kunas seen in this law in 2018, 2019, little, should be seen in a set of all the measures proposed by and in the Law on the financing of local self-government units in this law and in something else that we haven't talked about here, in order to mitigate the consequences of the then law that came into force in 2015 when this government entered into force and taking over the role of leading the state, it is precisely the Ministry of Sea Sea Sea and Transport that has jumped those units of local self-government through financial injections so that every time you look at the indices of development you don't think about the conditions, you don't think that some city or municipality of 700, 800 inhabitants have 100, 200 kilometers of unclassified roads to be maintained, in winter conditions just pouring the salt, sand, how much it costs. It's about millions of dollars. How can they think... ? And then, in this law, there's something else that's been mentioned by a few people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] European funds and what they should finance and the percentages of the funds should be provided by local self-government units. And now unrelated to the mountainous mountainous area law and to the law on assisted areas and to the island law, but to the whole state. So all cities or municipalities that run projects towards European funds must have 40 percent, 60% depending on the value of the project. It's about huge amounts. How are these cities, these municipalities going to get these funds unless there are measures like this? If there isn't this kind of thinking? We can speak, too, so I personally think that every single one of them when they see a law like this so that they can be viewed as some kind of social measure. Finally, the objective of all of this should be economic development, economic development of this area. And now I'm going to quote the words of an old oran who told me the history of Gorski Kotar, so he said this wasn't the first time that this happened to Gorski Kotar. Maybe it sounds funny, the first time it started happening to them when the chain saw came, imagine, because the chain saw was doing a job of hundreds of people before, but they jumped in, and they dragged tractors in, and they built a sawmill in every municipality or city, some kind of factory, some furniture, and the people stayed living in the area. And that's exactly what this law is about and the thinking of this government. If we built the highway from Zagreb to Rijeka. The highway was not designed for Gorani to go to Ireland or not to know where to go in the world, but to stay in that area and that the region could develop better. And not only him, this ship that was built in the Royal Shipyard that was forced to be shut down and it has been shown that without cranes, it can make quality ships of four bell towers. It shows how vital our man is, how fast he organizes himself, how fast he prepares himself, and how fast he can work. And it is a policy that must direct both these cities and these municipalities and create a framework for its country in which it will develop. If we act hastily as we have done so far with all these examples I have given you, it will not be good. I think the only way is this time we're going. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93194	I thank my esteemed colleague, Klaric. Replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93195	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Klaric, you mentioned, I will only look back at one part of your debate, you mentioned how the Ministry of the Sea, traffic, jumped in to the Gorans to clean snow. So only the pure truth works at a meeting of mountain leaders with ministers, former Milanovic's government when the law was abolished in 2015, then it was agreed that the state would clean snow and then, that's the deal meaning from the previous government. Together, a measure to increase the forest contribution from 2.5 to 7.5, means three times the amount of money left in the mountainous municipalities. And the new Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas was in preparation, unfortunately we lost the election. Your government has arrived which, as a result of my colleague, I will make you laugh, but the result is that these two years we have a frame without a picture and no concrete measures. And when you said that 20 million for twice the number of municipalities is now enough, the same government provided 60 million kuna of compensation measures for 2016 for the transitional period.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93196	I would like to thank my colleague, Djujic, for your response to Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93197	Yes, Mr. Djujic, I witnessed all these events, the running of our mayor Zlatko Komadina in Gorski Kotar to calm Gorane. So the runnings of your ministers up there eased, promising hills and valleys to these cities and municipalities. They were clear and concrete. Everything they promised and everything they were told wasn't done. Well, it doesn't suck that Mr. Zlatko Komadina your mayor came here to Zagreb and wrote along with all of us this proposal for a law on the mountainous area. It's not a joke. Our County of the Primorsko-Gorski was doing this. Those were promises of crazy joy. There was nothing of it, so eventually it turned out to be part of it. Ask Mayor Delnica how much the winter service cost him with that promise by Mr Milanovic at the time and those ministers who were then.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93198	I thank you for not answering, colleague Klaric. Next debate, respected counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my debate for 10 minutes, so I'm gonna use a little bit of it and refer to these things. So, yes, exactly, the Mayor of Komadin, along with our ministers, choked on the rebellion that you've been raising with your incorrect information and insinuating Gorane together with the mayor of Delnica and Vrbovski who were the loudest and who, for example today, are not here today, I don't hear them. And what did you do? You came to power in 2106, a year after this law, and today after two years you propose a new Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. And now let me say one more thing of truth for which you didn't exactly say on the Gorski Kotar of Col. Klaric in various campaigns. Therefore, the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas was adopted in 2002 at the initiative of SDP representative Dragutin Vrus from the town of Chabra. The law was then passed as a provisional law and it was written in that law that it was a temporary law that should improve the life of the inhabitants, primarily the idea of the Gorski Kotar but was extended to other units. There were concrete measures in this law that made life easier for both residents and units of local self - government in the area. However, what was not concrete, which was not concrete in that law, was the criterion by which cities and municipalities enter the law. So the only criterion was altitude and population per municipality area. And the same law said that it must be revised every few years and that a review of the municipalities that are there, their development, etc. should be carried out. and that it should change and expand with certain measures, means that people there should have received some more benefits. But what happened came from Sanader's government. And then Sanader's government exclusively laid down a part of the cities and municipalities in the law on the political key. So, let's say we had Dubrovnik that was in the area of the hills of the mountain-mounted area that you can't say that it was developed just like Cabar, just like Lokve, like Vrgorac or some other environment, Gospić. Dubrovnik, where to enter the walls of the old town, you have to pay me no 150 kuna, has huge incomes. And that was some kind of illogicality in the old law. This is why the law was adopted in 2015, it was abolished, it was said to bring a new one, but the government provided compensation measures for the next 3 years. I'm not the happiest with a solution that happened in 2015, and I was saying that the development index wasn't as good as it was made for certain municipalities and cities that caused many of them to fall out of the mountainous mountainous area, but I was also fighting for changes in that law, but what happened happened. And with the leaders of mountain cities, things were done then. On the other hand, HDZ came to power, which has raised a riot over Gorski Kotar and there with certain mayors and mayors that we see today that they were then loud and driving buses of Goran to Zagreb, today they are nowhere with this solution that is not good for me because you have promised them mountains and valleys, various things, the diameter is in the 4th month. in the mountain island, when it was now snowing a few months ago, he promised this law. And what do we get? We get how you talked about the frame, and where's the picture? Where's the picture? We've got a frame in which there's nothing. So you're passing a law that shouldn't be called a law at all, and this is a joke, not a law. This is the law you've passed, just so you can say, we've passed the law. There are no concrete measures in this law. So, the government will bring a program of development of mountainous mountainous areas, where cities and municipalities will participate, and there will write measures and criteria, according to which it goes and where everything will be written. Why didn't you write that in law? I expected this, as far as the law was announced, as many public debates were, how much rebellion, how many promises were made by the Gorski Kotar, however, nothing, according to counterpart Bulj, the zero, there is nothing. And now, when we talk about these concrete measures, I'm going to mention them to you, I don't know how much your power is in the ministry at all, to get into the law in the second reading, because obviously you've chosen some way, that we're going to pass the law now, and then, I don't know, for a couple of months, you're going to sit down with cities and municipalities and then you're going to do that strategy and then you're going to see what's going to get inside, but the most of my problems are this sentence, so according to financial possibilities. For every measure he writes to you according to financial possibilities, what does that mean? In a year, two days, we're going to have a weak budget charge and then you're going to say, hey look, we need to cut those measures down a little bit and those incentives. Also interesting, as HDZ's MPs, I'm glad that counterpart Klaric opened this issue, in 2014-2015, they were screaming, and now that we have a worse solution, it's being spoken, so look at the framework to have understanding, that's the state, that's how it should be, so it can't, so the law can't have concrete measures. How can he not? And the law must have concrete measures. We have a law on I don't know, subsidizing loans to governments, so it says exactly what criteria, how many subsidies, who has the right, who has no right, one child, another child, and nothing here. This is a promise of ore joy, it will be, it will be. What's it gonna be? There will be, there has been a lot of talk about these measures and there is not much to invent, so we have a forest contribution, colleague Stier well told public enterprises that operate in the areas of these units, here, Gorani, for example. Leave the revenues, from the forest, from the Croatian forests. Also, let's just say, not to mention, my colleague Klaric mentioned, for example. Unclassified roads, and that's one of the measures mentioned. So, Croatian forests drive logs along unclassified roads, on the Gorski kotar, destroy asphalt, and then units of local self-government should either resuscitate it or not, and that's why what's going on happens. There's a whole series of measures that can be made. An increase in the forest contribution, why not enter the law, that the state is obliged to clean snow on units entering the mountainous mountainous area. Is that a problem to write? If there's snow to pay, if there's no snow they won't pay. And they'll pay exactly who spends it. And then it's the dispensation of these cities and municipalities and why wouldn't it say so? It should also be tax reliefs for people living there, for businesses hiring young families, meaning an enhanced package of demographic measures and social measures, which will be financed by the state, not by local self-government units, from their own resources. You wrote here in law that it should all be, but as a rule, it's funded by local self-government units by law, so write down in the law that the state will jump in. Also, people in that area have problems with cars, there are lots of salt, there with buying more winter tires etc. Well, here's why they wouldn't be released, I don't know, paying tolls on registration or some kind of measure. So, but concrete things, they won't, we'll make a deal and we'll have it. And one more thing, these people, they don't pray, and those people don't ask, and those people don't have to be given something because they're merciful. But these people should only be allowed to live as much as all other citizens in the Republic of Croatia, as much as possible. It will never be able to live in that environment, as well as someone in Zagreb, but it needs to be conditioned that it can live around as people in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and some other more developed environment. And we can only do that with concrete measures, not by telling stories. Here I hope that by the second reading it will be maybe a little bit more concrete, what you've just moved on in your first reading, doesn't mean it has to stay that way. So you can write a complete turn, we've had examples in this government, just that from first to second reading, the laws have completely changed and give you a well-meaning understanding of these things. The law can't be a political platform to say we did something. And I wish you'd done something without doing anything. Bring to the second reading, a proposal with concrete measures, and we'll support that, and I'll keep this frame without a picture at the moment, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93200	I thank my colleague, Djujic, we have one replica, dear colleague Tomislav Lipoščak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93201	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Đujic, you mentioned the Croatian forests that Croatian forests import logs on unclassified roads, destroy roads, etc. etc. In part I agree with you that Croatian forests, they drive logs on these roads, however, it would be good to see what the share of Croatian forests is, what is the share of private carriers, private entrepreneurs. There is a constant impression in this House, that Croatian forests are some kind of big bauk and the biggest enemy in regional development and the like. However, not just these areas and Gorski Kotar, Croatia's forests are one of the important and employers and actually the reasons for the rest of the people in these areas. And as for n3 sorted roads and destruction, i.e. road maintenance, it would be good to check the data, how the forest contribution funds are spent, because you believe that I am now not bringing them out here, there are units of local self-government, which are very loud about not maintaining and destroying roads, and they transfer funds from forest contributions, from one year to the next and not spend them on purpose, but for some other purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93202	Thank you. Comrade Lipoščak, answer, colleague Đujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93203	This is not the first time that you and I have talked about Croatian forests, because in principle we agree on it, but it should reopen the debate on Croatian forests as a concept, they are today a company. I believe that Croatian forests as a public well-being of the Republic of Croatia, perhaps they shouldn't even have the profit they have, should be allocated where they picked it up, and then we shouldn't need the Law on mountainous mountainous areas if those units were to benefit and benefit from those forests that were essentially centuries old and lived. So that's the part. And this, too, I believe that there are units that the forest contribution spend and not purposefully spend at all, but there are some other institutions in the country that need to be controlled and each kuna needs to be controlled and they need to be given a deadline for which they have to spend it, but I say, maybe we should have a general debate about the Croatian forests, it's good that they are in this area, but I would like them to be a little bit more decentralised so that the revenues they achieve remain more in that area where they make them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93204	I thank my colleague Djujic for his reply. Next debate, esteemed colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93205	Thank you, Vice President. I'll proceed actually to where I stood on behalf of the club at the beginning of this debate. I personally participated as other fellow mayors from Croatia Zagorje and the interior of Istria, Gorsko kotar in the working body that brought this let's say... And I really don't understand what was presented to us in April about the mountain card. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We really thought that, that is, we asked that any natural person who has a registered residence or legal person who has a registered seat in the mountainous mountainous area might have it. It would actually be a device for all these benefits that would be realized through some other things. Let's say they all use the highway to bigger regional centres. Thank God, if on the basis of a mountain card it would allow this to be reduced through highways determined by these, that the price of the map would be lower. So when we talk about this law and general life in this area, except for you here in the assembly, there really should be some other representatives of other ministries to really say whether it is possible or not. I know that you now have a great obligation to say what life will be like in the mountainous mountainous area, but I would really like to be Prime Minister, to be Minister of Finance and all others, to simply say whether we are going to save that area of Croatia because constantly since 2002, all the laws that have been passed have not contributed to us, will they come to a turn or do we really think that we can? If so, I personally tell my people when I return to my citizens, I will tell them my people I cannot tell you to stay here, nor I want to lie to you, go save yourself, go to the urban centres, go outside the borders of Croatia because unlike the urban centers that are relatively close to us, specifically down the Adriatic coast or Split, specifically to the Gorski Kotar, Rijeka, our people are moving urban areas, and they are moving beyond the borders of Croatia. The demographic depopulation of these complete areas is twice as strong. Therefore, these measures, which are adopted at the level of Croatia, and you yourself said the sustainable development programme, must be twice as much and twice as much money available to have that poor mountainous mountainous area or assisted area. We can't be in the same basket, it just needs to be delimited, delimited by means. I told you an example of tourism, I do not understand that the Ministry of Tourism, if we, as a Dalmatian Zagora, want to develop rural tourism or the area of Gorski Kotar or Zagora, the interior of Istria, that we are again in the same basket of events as the islanders. Now I'd ask my colleagues, I don't know, not there's Mr. Bauk, I'd ask him what the land price is on Brač Island? 150 euros per square, with me... 150 kuna. the income of real estate taxes as many islands as the coastal cities have, as far as they have a mountainous mountainous area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How much is the average salary? And this tax reform is differently reflected in the mountainous mountainous mountainous area and refers differently to certain urban areas. Our average salary isn't a little bit more than 4,000 kuna, so when you look at that 3800 kuna figure, untaxable income, income tax, what's on yield? Ask yourself a question, and we know in the fiscal law... to the extent that these measures will last, they will not last indefinitely. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we need inside this package of laws to bring in another reading... The draft rules because if the law comes into force in 1.1, which it will, and the rules and sublegal acts that define all the benefits that we are discussing today should come into force in 60, 90 days, so I guess that's ready, drafts, so give us those blueprints as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We were saying, as I recall, that before the first reading, we'd get some drafts indicative. But as long as an entrepreneur in the mountainous mountainous area pays the same burdens as an entrepreneur in the urban area, as much as he pays water fees to Croatian waters, entrepreneurs or citizens in Vrgorec, Delnice or I don't know Lepoglav, equally as a citizen in Zagreb or the center of Split, we can't talk about revitalising these areas. So there are a number of factors where you could help, specifically entrepreneurs. Every city can bring in a programme of measures to encourage entrepreneurship, every city, every city can report to you if you have an open fund, not at all but on capital investments, so you can release money through our concrete programs that have been accepted on city councils or... the mayor where we can offer a de minimis support and you can open up that one fund where we can apply, get some funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the programme of measures to promote the development of agriculture, seedlings, means but now I'm talking about agriculture and development, and I said at the club's opening on behalf, you had the last 6.3 of the Ministry of Agriculture where the additional points of the mountainous mountainous area were abolished, but they could never, ever, be a farmer in the mountainous mountainous area competitive with that farmer from Slavonia, given the fragmentation of the area, given the fragmentation of the field, given the processing capacity, in terms of culture. It can't possibly be acceptable. And there are a number of these measures where it could be done through the Ministry of Regional Development, with cooperation with the Ministry of Finance where money should be provided that we register our action programmes or for entrepreneurship and agriculture, so we don't have to talk about only municipal investment. What does community investment mean to me to invest in I don't know, the road, the building of a footstep or anything when there won't be people in 20 years? And objectively not when demographic indicators are devastating. To attract investors to the mountainous mountainous area. I went to a fair of Vienna myself, I don't know, to connect with the development agencies of Central Europe, and on all sides we discussed, and then when the entrepreneur comes to invest, he sees the price of water in the mountainous and mountainous area, here is the particulars of Dalmatia's biggest burning. But I told you why it's the biggest. The cost of electricity per meter of cubicly invoiced water due to pumping at the level of Croatia under one kuna, with us 4.47 kuna per metre cubic. So it's not one, it's two times, it's four times bigger. And now we're saying we're competitive. And how can a businessman be competitive with such parameters? And those parameters didn't come out I don't know about the checks, they were created because of the geomorphological characteristics of the mountain-mounted area though... It helps. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian waters, Croatian waters publish a public call where we are all equal, is the same as that water supply that I do not know has a much higher population density, much more connections, there is no such high value of altitude differences as my water supply, to reduce losses. There must be a difference, there must be, there must be harmony. But we need these harmonys and these differences within the second reading if we really want to help. Or let's pass this law as it is, give these 20 million kunas as far as it's concerned, I guess that's a word for a fund to co-finance projects. And the rest as we manage, we manage. But then it is not the regional development of Croatia, it is the urbanisation of Croatia. All the citizens of these rural areas, the mountain-mounted minors when we speak but also help the same first thing that will go away, go urban, first urban areas... Yourself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some of the more serious will go beyond Croatia's borders. And without, indeed, we can try, I sometimes feel, we really do chemically everywhere in the city budget, I can praise the increase in fiscal balancing measures but no one will bring back those three years of failure, extremely poor financial conditions and the maltenes are the same levels. So you can't if the car goes down 10 miles an hour, say, come on, we stopped the car so they don't go 10, they go 8, but they're going. So it takes enormously more effort, twice as much effort to get it back. But if we want and that's the basis of my presentation on behalf of the club, the first sentence, we need to decide in this House, you government, the rest of the ministries, the prime minister whether life in the mountainous area will be or not. If Switzerland, it fascinates me, from its Alps, Austria, Germany, France created a place, so recently I'm looking at a report from one of the French Alps, one of the places that has tourist capacities filled and higher prices than any other... I don't understand that we can't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are we less capable of Croatians and we are in a better position than they are? But it requires some effort and financial resources. I can also thank the Split-Dalmatia County, it has money so it invests in this area of Dalmatian Zagora, invests as much as it can, has certain programmes. But just to get a little incentive from some other ministries, I said specifically the Ministry of Tourism. Well, it can't be called just for Croatia's hill-mounted mountain-mounted area to report according to the criteria for a mountain-mounted area in some kind of fund for some events. It's a little detail. And as far as the scope and regulation itself is concerned, this should indeed be greatly served. Now I guess by some suggestion, the draft should be about 90 and some units of local self-government mountain-mounted. That means that even these assets that we're talking about right now for 200 thousand people per 45 are going to be even smaller because they're going to go to a higher level. We have declared half of Croatia supported, let's not let half of Croatia declare itself mountain-mounted. Even then, only 10 areas of these small urban cities should be declared, but that is not the point of regional development in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93206	I thank my colleague Pranic. Next debate, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93207	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of Croatia, the esteemed Secretary of State with his associates, here are his colleagues and colleagues. I was very pleased to listen to today's debates in the Croatian Parliament and could hear a lot and I think that the secretary of state and his associates have received very good suggestions, good instructions that could, not now, but in the future implement this law or some new law. So, I'm going to start with something maybe that our citizens, what our citizens say, are mostly in areas, mountain-mounted areas where I come from. If we were to speak now and mention bank recoverys, the financing of associations, NGOs, shipyards and funds that were invested there and that some of these funds had been invested through local self-government units, I think we would get far, far greater results. But we need to talk about the circumstances in which something was happening to us and the opportunities that we were living on. I won't mention the time since the war, but it's '93. the years when those units were actually created by local and regional self-government. And colleague Pranic and colleague Djujic, what I heard, I agree with a lot of things. Let's say fellow Djujic's remarks that in areas, mountainous and mountainous areas, for example, snow-cleaning should take over the state precisely because of this as one special measure and these are extremely large funds. Let's say, I know a municipality that has 170 inhabitants, 147km of such roads. What does that mean for her? It's a lot, and it's an extremely big asset. So they can, certain measures can be made. But these are all individual measures and are related to the specificity of individual areas. It is not the same to be a municipality in Slavonia or Dalmatinska Zagora, Gorski Kotar or Zagorje. When we look at the municipalities of the Adriatic Sea, so from Konaval to Istria and about 100,000 renters and incomes that they have there from several billion kunas and when you compare it with entrepreneurs or people who actually live and work in Slavonia, then these relations are enormously disproportionate in favour of these municipalities in the coastal part of the Republic of Croatia. So these specifics actually talk about how and how to think. And that's why the state is still in '96. In the year, by adopting the Law on Areas of Specific State Care and Regional Development Laws, she thought in this direction. One of the colleagues today said, in those 18 years 20, it was in fact still difficult to manage, a demographic depopulation in that area, and I wonder where we are and what we were wrong about. The fact is also, fellow Pranic, that in the hill-mounted area of the municipality, or better said cities at the time did not actually pay for lighting neither for municipal compensation nor for phones nor for graves, today their expenditure and home budget increased but we have no income, it is an additional problem for them, although when you enter the websites of certain municipalities that I often do, here today was the interesting municipality of Kamanja. Let's say when you look at their income from a year ago, then he was somewhere around 4 million kuna, today he's over 10 million kuna. In fact, it says that one good and thoughtful policy in the Republic of Croatia and the strategy itself when we talk about units of local administration and self-government, one such good law on the financing of units of local self-government can actually do good things and it is good that this income, especially income from profits, remains in the area of these local self-government units, which actually allows them to plan certain things that they could not plan. Now, both life and society aren't static, they're dynamic, something's constantly changing, and we keep expecting something. What you will often hear from citizens is that there are not enough jobs in these areas and that this is also one of the reasons for the depopulation of these areas, or the attractiveness of some more attractive environments. This is what I said to one of my colleagues today, not the same and not the same attractive area in Istria or the area in Slavonia, each in its own way is beautiful but not the same for life. So incomes far more to have in this work than in Slavonia, the land price is far higher in the coastal work than in Slavonic work or in mountainous areas. What I liked about Mr Pranic, he was actually talking about concrete measures. And I think that you, too, from the Ministry of Honor, the Secretary of State, should consider these suggestions. So it's impossible and it's not good, and it's a bad picture if you have this completely depopulation area when you have the same price we're talking about now about building or administrative permit for the price of electricity, for the price of payment or water-saving fees or anything because it's the same as in Zagreb or Split. For example, we should think about it when we talk about it, and that would help citizens, or those units of local self-government very, very much. So there's a lot of ways to do it. I think that when we talk about these things, this wider picture that we should have constantly in front of our eyes is that it's not just this law or the proposals of these island laws, the assisted areas, the mountain-mounted areas are just those that create preconditions for a good life or survival in those parts. Therefore, the Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on the availability of state property and the financing of units of local self-government should also be considered. So in my view, any such law should go through, let's say, one filter in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Legislative Committee that should have or should have at least two measures related to demographicism or survival in that area, so to think about it, that component in the adoption of any and especially of these laws, then we might have better and different work. If we're talking about money now related to this law, of course it's not enough, so 20 million kuna is enough, it's little to one municipality or the city of Imotskom, so now he doesn't just get those funds through it. The third thing that is very important is that in 2013, we became a full member of the EU and that through that mobility, we actually had things that we did not have that effect and I believe that by our actions and inaction we also encouraged a certain part of the population to leave Croatia or go beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia to waste their existence. It is not good, it does not serve the honor of any government or government before or from us now, and in fact we Assembly representatives in this House and we are actually involved in such things, or we will be remembered for one large part of the population leaving for existential reasons partly outside the Republic of Croatia. In order for this to happen to us, to think about this direction, I welcome all the efforts of all institutions in the Republic of Croatia, primarily the ministry, that through concrete measures and we will have to discuss them, actually stop this depopulation, stop the eviction from the Republic of Croatia and actually offer measures of the same or similar conditions that can be found outside of the Republic of Croatia. We can do this best in synergy with local administration and self-government units. The colleagues I speak with, they may have certain measures each in their area differently, it is not the same to have a municipality along the Slovenian border or I do not know the municipality along the Serbian border, so these specificities, these measures are not and cannot be the same but therefore there is a roof ministry, or the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia which should lead one strategy to equality and even development in the Republic of Croatia, which is actually difficult but should be far faster and far more effective. At that time, we would have far fewer problems, or I think that the legal proposals of these coming to the Croatian Parliament at first reading, would be an accepting of the proposals of those who took place in the first reading in order to correct much more of the things related to this law, to specify them for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93208	I thank my esteemed colleague, Babic. We have several replicas, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93209	Thank you very much. Dear Babić, here's the thing you mentioned, snow cleaning, and that's one specific theme for mountainous areas, and that's true, and that's the only little problem we might be discussing today is two laws for one, and then I was talking mostly about mountainous areas you've been talking about assisted areas, and then we come up with some misunderstandings, because that's the point, so all these undeveloped areas, or less developed than other islands and Dalmatian Zagora and mountainous areas and Slavonian municipalities, have some things that are common. It's a demographic image, an emigration, an intelligent policy, social policy, and that's, say, some skeleton measure, which everyone can have equal. And then we get to these specifics, so, snow-cleaning areas of the hilly areas, like, islanders, we were just talking about it, they have a privileged ferry map. Let’s say, what will a person in Slavonia prefer a ferry ticket or someone in the hilly area, but that’s why we allow them to clean snow, allow these tolls, etc. But it's good to talk about correct measures, not the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93210	I'd like to thank my colleague, Giujic. The answer of my colleague Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93211	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Coli Đujic, you said, one of the measures here today could be heard, for example, building houses, apartments and settlements in small municipalities is extremely large and intense. When you drive 20 or 30 tons of trucks through local or unclassified roads, you actually burden the budget of the local self-government unit. We don't have much use for it, therefore, part of the money that goes from the sale of gasoline and oil products, separates either for state or county roads, but for local roads there's not a single June. And I'm just thinking vice versa, if the state were to consider this proposal that one part of that means, or money, would go exactly for such roads, and would be where and where easier for local self-government units, especially those in the mountainous mountainous area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93212	I thank my colleague Babic, the next replica is a respected counterpart, Tomislav Liposjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93213	Comrade Babiæ, you mentioned in your presentation the lack, that is, of insufficient jobs. However, it is not always just a cause in these areas. I will look back at Croatia's forests and the situation on the Gorski kotar, the fact is that a tender for a particular group of jobs is constantly being opened, however, the fact is that people are also looking for more attractive interests and are actually looking for more attractive environments. It is precisely the importance of the programme, in which units of local self-government should actively participate. Yes, they see what they can specifically offer, to keep people in their fields, that is, to attract them and, of course, it requires one particular inventiveness and resourcefulness, but without it they will not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93214	I would like to thank my colleague Lipoščak, the answer, my colleague Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93215	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Lipoščak, I said that, if you look at 100,000 renters, who make several billion incomes, and if you compare it with producers in Slavonia, of course that the inattractivity of work in Slavonia is far higher, so here we are talking about annual work, here we are talking about three months renting. Of course, it is more attractive and that thinking about such people, especially a supported one media campaign, tells us that it is more attractive and better to be at sea than to live in Slavonia. But that's why the state is there, that's why the ministries are there, to encourage certain measures exactly the other way around, to create an inversion and, in fact, to that part, the Slavonic part or the edge part of the Republic of Croatia, to assist precisely with those measures that will leave them in the area, which is very important for the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93216	I thank my colleague Babic for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93217	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, just a little bit about the Law on Mountain Mountain Areas and Supported Areas, because it seems to me that even after the Law on Islands, there is one dose and surface, but also malicious interpretations, certain provisions of these laws, with an accompanying dose of hypocrisy, some who have had the opportunity to install everything they offer today as a solution, and have not had the courage, i.e. They didn't do anything and now post-festum, I say, they know all about these areas and what they should look like and what they should look like. And to support that argument, then I'll be back in the period of the creation of all these laws, that's the beginning of 2000 in 2002 of the Hill Mountain Act, '99. The Law on Islands, the Law on Supported Areas and the Law on the City. These laws also lasted all the time when we were preparing to join the EU, these laws passed an analysis of all EU professional services and when they came to us and when we presented to them what we offer or give through laws, they said, these laws should not be harmonised with EU legislation. So we allow you sectoral laws for assisted areas, so you can have measures to improve living conditions in these areas. And the long-standing application of these laws clearly showed that we have some measures that can allow for better and better quality life in those areas. When it came in 2014 and the story of income tax, when we talk about the Law on mountainous mountainous areas, then Kukuriku Vlad and former regional development minister, Mr. Grcic made it clear that he would change the law almost and abolish it. I remember 11 months 2014 not '15, 2014 when it announced that the law would be abolished. Of course, the reason was that, through the amendments to the Income Tax Act, virtually all the measures that made up one major part of that mountainous law had disappeared. When it didn't happen after the pressure of the local leaders, especially the Gorski Kotar, then it went to remain just the name of the law and there was only one provision left that you could use from that law, which is that you can read free forest fruits in the forest. And that has existed to this day, but to this day the mountainous mountainous areas have not disappeared. It means that the law as it was and which we have right now and this new one, I can't make much of a contribution to that space, but this law again offers concrete assistance, unlike the one that's offered nothing so far. So he's naked to the end and there's nothing for mountainous mountainous areas, nothing but a single provision. And that's why I'm surprised, the debate on the other hand, when comparing this law finds that he's not good and that he doesn't need to be brought in, because, well, we've noticed a lot of shortcomings in the same. And the current says there's nothing, but there's still mountainous mountainous areas. And I think this is a good step, because the mountainous mountainous areas are also trying to see, in the way that it was looked at... And through the time and application of this law, through financial means, these are national funds, so there are no stories about funds, which we can give to local self-government, plus what we gave them when we talk about income tax laws, and that's all they could get, and then to equalize them with those developed, times residents, times the basics, so they turned out to be, I don't know, Vrgorac 9 million, Sinj 21, Metkovic 20 or so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was a concrete aid from the central state in those areas. This, this is another little help, and what did the Ministry of the Sea do? They took it upon themselves, so they designed a winter maintenance program for the roads in that area, and they're paying for it, and that's the story that I'm saying, I'm listening to you on the other hand, that some have announced it, so they've also announced the compensation measures of 60 million kn because they knew they had raised their hand, that they took 55 million kn then the Gorski kotar. You're the same guy who says nothing's wrong today. They raised their hand for it, that's hypocrisy. So you raise your hand for something and then charge another for not doing it. No, gentlemen, this step is certainly not perfect, but it was hard to agree the law. I know how many mountain leaders' initiatives we had, the local self-government unit, who wanted this law to be called the Gori Kotar Act, not the Mountain Mountain Areas Act, because then it would cover 9 units of local, or 13 I'm not sure, local self-government. And then I'm sure it'd be more money just for them and where everyone else is. When we know what we had in the Law on the mountainous mountainous area, that a municipality of Matul, which had no developmental problems, had reliefs and benefits, which made its budget much greater than it might have been. When everyone was fighting to be in mountain status. That was why it was worth the law itself. Not every single and concrete measure described here, so wide, the details will come out of it through the rulebook. So I'm not and I've been saying it all day, I've been saying it, I'm inclined to pour bile on it while we're earning some people's efforts, I've known Mrs Katica for a long time, she's in that administration, and I know how much trouble it is if you don't have the law, help some local self-government from some area. And this is one good basis, to upgrade, to see that you go as well as island products, with a mountain product, to create a patch of manufacturers, which will not be able to create that space products from which to live. But it's not right, that I don't know why, we just go easy on it and offer nothing. Here, I didn't hear anything, which someone would say, here, put it in the law, except for Mr. Jovanovic, he said a few measures. Whether it's a free highway, the reason for staying or leaving, I'm not sure. Whether a free ferry would be the reason for staying or leaving, no, you can think about it or some benefits, for example, that should be given to children who go to high school or students who go to school in the I don't know, centres, counties, live in the Gorski Kotar. These are the moments you're going to have to think about management now, you heard the debate. And what we certainly expect in the next reading may be a little bit more detailed, after all these discussions, but not to get what happened to us again, let's say that the county health home shuts down dialysis in Delnice, and then we're talking about how we take care of that space, that these sick people are now going to Rijeka every day. Why? And it can function on islands, and it can function in Delnice. So let's let go of hypocrisy, let's look at these people, what they want, and how we can help them, little help, maybe not a lot of 20 million kn, but it's certainly more than what we've had so far, and that was zero. And so, with everything that has come down through other laws, and yet I say, sectoral and all the other laws in the Republic of Croatia are worth to all citizens, and this is just one upgrade to those laws, which may not have recognized some specificity, to give you another possibility. I personally support this law and the Law on Supported Areas, we have time for about a month, to make it into one law, even better than this, after all you've heard, maybe some other measures, about wood industry, forestry, everything that these areas mark, to perhaps be more concrete, perhaps then the parliamentary representatives will discuss this in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93218	I thank my colleague Boric for this debate. On behalf of the promoter, Secretary of State, dear colleague Žunac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93219	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Finally, I want to thank all MPs and MPs, in a truly exhaustive and constructive debate, this seems to me that this set of two laws has been far more constructive than the one on the islands, we've heard a lot of proposals, we've heard a lot of suggestions, and believe me that we've actually remembered them and written them down, that it's very important laws, and that's absolutely clear to us, and we who are from the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds. So, and to understand that, you, of course, bear witness to today's entire debate, which apparently lasted. So I just want to point out once again that these bill proposals are only part of a comprehensive set or a set of laws that different resolutions, the government of the Republic of Croatia are working, making, so really in a concrete way and effectively decentralised the whole of the Republic of Croatia, so that our units of local self-government, so that, therefore, our municipalities and cities become much less dependent on the central state. So, first of all, the areas we've talked about today, meaning areas we call assisted and mountainous. So even though we have, even though it is somehow here, we can say this about a more recent legislation, so unlike the Island Law, where we had 20 years of practical practice and implementation, this is, of course, a much more life-threatening or more concrete law with more concrete and life-saving measures for citizens, or islanders. So here we've heard a lot of these concrete suggestions. And here's how we announced it, so until the final proposal, we'll have a much more concrete law and what's more important, so we don't want to hide anything, we'll have concrete criteria for covering mountain-mounted areas where we'll really, without any hiding, indicate which units of local self-government that are going to gain that mountain-mounted status. So where are we really going to go without any hiding, to indicate what units of local self-government are and what will gain that status in the mountainous and mountainous areas. And, of course, list a part of those measures that obviously all are missing within this legal framework. What is, then, I would still like to point out that in further talks with other resolutions, we will in any case seek to find additional funds. We are also aware that this is, therefore, even though there are some gauges, some limits that we must adhere to, or that we have so far stuck to. But in any case, obviously, there is a great interest from different clubs, so that's what the initiative came up with, so that could lead to some of the things I'd say, maybe change, and these concrete measures we'll, of course, have in that final proposal. So let me conclude, I am convinced that we will have a text that will be much more liked by all of you as representatives and that will satisfy you far more in its final version, which will naturally be for the benefit of citizens living in mountainous and assisted areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93220	Thank you, Secretary of State Mr. Joontz. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank Secretary of State Velimir Zunc, Assistant Minister Katici Miskovic and Assistant Minister Davor Huška for the reasons. We will vote on these two bill proposals when the conditions are met. I'm setting a break until 19.10 minutes of TANK at 18.55 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93221	Proposal for a Law on Supported Areas, first reading of P.Z. No. 410, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The Proposal for a Law on Supported Areas is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93222	Thank you very much. I would ask for a break on behalf of the MEST Club of 10 minutes to consult with the club members and all of us among ourselves that this law is essentially a PR pamphlet that does not solve anything, where for somewhere more than 350 units of local self-government are assigned as 80 million kuna. Nothing is also defined in the mountain-mounted areas as well. The law that follows, which we will vote for, 20 million kuna for 35 units of local self-government. This is unserious to those parts. 2/3 of Croatia has no concern except that the minister did not even come to debate this Act, and I believe that this is an unserious relationship and we at the MOST Club, an unserious relationship with those parts where they simply come at a time when some celebrations, as in my Dalmatian Zagora come to Alka, to the top prosciutto, to the drža prosciutto, and then to give this pamphlet. This Law and these areas should also be discussed seriously on islands and mountain-mounted areas and assisted areas. Absolutely nothing is defined. Not even areas belonging to local self-government units in this Act are defined. Thus, people from the island, people from assisted areas from Slavonia to Prevlaka expect those empty areas to be passed by a law that will keep people from being bus stations and crying parents on bus stations full of rather than hearing parents cry, to hear children crying in maternity homes. I would ask you one more time, fellow Members, that this pamphlet sent by the Minister of Regional Development not be allowed to pass this way and that people think in rural areas that something has been solved. Absolutely nothing has been solved... She has paid more PR service for this Law than she has invested in all these areas. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93223	Okay. I'll have a break by 12.23 hours. It's 12.13 o'clock. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so that we can proceed with the vote. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.23 HOURS]] So now we're on the Proposal for a Law on Supported Areas, first reading of P.Z. No. 410. Not to say again, we've come to the conclusion, which is: 1. Proposal for a Law on Supported Areas and 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 78 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 30 votes against the conclusion that the parliamentary working bodies have proposed. The Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds proposes to the Council to adopt a conclusion which reads: It is binding on the Proposer to supplement the text with the exact criteria as well as the activities and concrete measures to help those areas. I would like to ask the representative of the proposer, the respected Memorial Đuric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds to be shown about the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93225	Dear President of the Parliament, esteemed MPs. On behalf of the promoter, we accept the conclusion and commit ourselves to implementing all the measures that are in the conclusion and standing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93226	Thank you. We will now vote on this, so I am voting on the Committee's proposal. I find that most of the votes 83 for, 6 abstentions and 14 against, have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the Parliamentary Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93388	Dear colleagues, we continue the plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 19.10 HOURS]] Agenda point: - Proposal for a Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, first reading, P.Z. No. 399 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply when discussing this item on a daily basis. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Agriculture, I call on the representative of the proposing State Secretary, Mr Tugomir Majdak, to give us an additional explanation of the bill's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93389	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representatives in the Croatian Parliament. In front of us is the proposal for a Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, first reading, which the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture have positively assessed, and the Government also points to first reading as a proposer. Currently applicable Law on cattle farming, mostly based on provisions... technical legal acts of the EU that originate from the end of the 1980s. and early '90s. Mr. last century. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the years of harmonisation of Croatian legislation, with EU legislation, due to the continued changes and additions, the rules governing specific areas of agriculture, the implementation of certain chapters covered by that law, are laid down by legally binding EU acts and adopted through other national legislative acts in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Making livestock law insufficiently effective and applicable. The European Parliament and the Council, with a view to the need to amend the harmonisation, unification and creation of a single and summarised legal framework in the area of zoo technique, have joined the creation of a common legal act and adopted Regulation 1012 of 2016 on zoo technical and genealogical conditions for the breeding of purebred animals, farmed hybrid pigs and their replacements and trade therein, as well as their entry into the Union, and amending the EU Regulation. 652 of Council Directive 89/608, of 90/625 and has been put outside the power of certain acts in the field of animal breeding, etc. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition, specificities are regulated in the implementation of breeding, trade, preservation of genetic diversity, and reproduction of domestic animals in the Republic of Croatia. Unlike the existing Law on livestock, in the focus of the new bill, there are breeders, holding domestic animals, exclusively for the purpose of breeding with a view to the creation of better-productive breeding animals. The breeders are as an interest group, free to join a breeding society and a breeding organisation, to design and create their own breeding programmes, and to implement them on domestic animals owned by the Ministry of Agriculture after approval. The main objective of implementing the breeding programme, in full terms, is the creation and breeding of animals. Furthermore, the basic concept of the regulation also enables the isolation of breed societies and breeding organisations, in the implementation of breeding programmes, and stresses the need and strengthening of their administrative and institutional capacities, in line with EU guidelines for the needs of livestock farming, and in order to fully meet the requirements of those associations, for the management of breeding programmes, and for other breed societies and breeding organisations in the EU area, to be competitive. Since the regulation, as well as the law of the public body, according to the new nomenclature, considers it to be the breed societies and breeding organisations, and that it is not envisaged, a special, separate legal status of an authorised institution for livestock business, the law allows the breeding society, that for the purposes of the implemented breeding programmes on the market, it is equally competing with other breeding associations in the choice of the best provider of the education programme. Organisational forms, associations, structures and hierarchy in authorising and verifying the implementation of breeding programmes have been clearly defined, with attention being paid to the protection of national interests while respecting agreed principles at EU level. The law also regulates the conditions and means of recognition of the breed society and the breeding organisation, which will be implemented according to the new model through separate procedures. In doing so, there is no possibility that the Ministry of Agriculture may authorise several breeding associations or breeding organisations to implement one or more of the same breeding programmes on the same breed of domestic animals, and hence, the establishment of a number of lower and higher levels of associations. What ultimately aims to combine and surround breeders, as well as to strengthen, all forms of capacity of breeding societies and breeding organisations. The law defends the Institute of the Rights of Private Property, and in particular emphasises the right and necessary registration of breeders into a breeding society, i.e. a breeding organisation. A domestic animal, intended for breeding, needs to be entered into one of the breeding books run by an authorised breeding society, i.e. organisations, and the imperative is the entry of animals into a breeding book, its inclusion in the implementation of the breeding programme, and the acquisition of the conditions for receiving a zoo technical certificate, for the animal concerned, become important elements in keeping and breeding animals. In accordance with the EU's positive regulations, environmental protection and biodiversity conservation, and genetic variability enables genetic resources to obtain the status of the gene bank in the framework of the conservation of genetic resources, through representative collections, animal roll-out and thus extend their activities, and actively participate in the development of the use of animals and their plant material, with the possibility of obtaining financial benefit from the field of reproduction of domestic animals intended for breeding purposes, the obligations of legal and natural persons of non-financial character relating to training and keeping records with the aim of monitoring and monitoring the use of the marginal material and, for the purpose of controlling the market for marginal material, improving the quality of cultivation, more efficient implementation of the breeding programme. Compared to the existing Law on cattle farming, the proposal of a new Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, the management of the bee's catastra fits and determines... in the use of bee pashas, it is entrusted to the Croatian beekeeping association which represents a roof association and comprises the largest part of the total number of beekeepers in the Republic of Croatia, which, in the context of the entire Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, continues to transfer powers to the breeder association, their institutional and administrative strengthening. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The assessment of the breeding value of horses through the organisation and the collection of data on the results of competition is also more significant and detailed, thus setting positive assumptions for improving breeding, promoting and developing horse sport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93390	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State for these arguments. We have several replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93391	Thank you very much. We're talking about the Animal Breeding Act. By visiting the markets, fairgrounds, we see that there are no more domestic animals, this is a regulation or an EU directive adapted to those countries from which we import pigs, so we import pork for a billion kuna, 130m euros with this law late, you said it was changed in '89. Or in 88 years, if you can tell how much was the cattle fund in the Republic of Croatia, and what is the stock fund today? How much milk producers we are and what we are protecting by this law and what the EU has done long ago with its producers. those who grow animals? Therefore, this law does not bring anything to the Croatian peasant, this law does not mean anything to animal breeders except that we are only signers of regulations and EU directives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93392	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. Answer, Secretary of State, Mr. Majdak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93393	I appreciate the question. Dear Representative Bulj, a far greater number of breeders of animals in breeding and production, means that milk and meat were those years that you say, so other than the transposition of certain provisions of the regulation, this law puts into place more favourably far from producers or breed societies that we intend to further strengthen by this law in order to exactly what you said, strengthen cultivation and to obtain more quality reproductive material or genetic material in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93394	Thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. Next replica, respected colleague Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93395	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, you were talking about how to assess the breeding value of horses. I'd like to know what's going on with the identification and registration of the hooves. Namely, in the present Law on cattle farming, it was not clearly defined in whose authority includes the labelling or chipping of horses. Since it is a microsurgery procedure and the last regulation of the EU has clearly defined that it belongs strictly and exclusively to the jurisdiction of veterinary, I am interested in how this act is defined by this law because labelling is also one of the zoo technical measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93396	I thank my colleague Križanić. Secretary of State Majdak's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93397	Thank you, dear representative Križanić. Here is a series of these regulations, both fundamental and implementing or delegated regulations, which remain clearly defined at EU level as the competent authority of the Ministry of Veterinary and Food Safety of the Ministry of Administration for the identification and registration of the equidae and the competent authority within the competent authority of the Member States and, in this case, as proposed by the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, remains in the framework of the rules dealing with the issue of breeding, i.e. the proposal for a Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93398	Thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93399	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I'm interested in a particular case under this law. Namely, there has been an expansion of the meat plant in Čakovec Wade, there are now tens of thousands of pigs screaming 24 hours a day that no one can live normally within 300 meters, people can sleep and I am interested, they have submitted several questions at the county level to measure noise, for all of them, for a year around it their protests are taking place, but everyone says it's okay, that it's within normal limits, so now I'm curious whether these citizens can address someone in the ministry because it's such a noise that deaf people couldn't sleep from it, let alone a healthy man. So why are the regulations being ignored, is it just because there's one, that factory making a profit? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93400	I thank my colleague Bunjac, although your question is not in line with the subject or the law, but here you are, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93401	Thank you. The esteemed colleague of Bunjac, therefore, is not in the jurisdiction of the proposal of this law but of the Animal Protection Act. Of course, breeders, or those who are witnesses to this noise and who have certain problems, may contact the ministry’s competent services to carry out and carry out inspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93402	I thank you for this information for your general culture. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93403	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Today, it seems to me that we are discussing a law that refers to very little of what is left today, and this shows interest in this debate of our colleagues who are listed on our hands because we are aware that we are actually talking about above standards, we are talking about something that is expected, it was expected at the time when these laws were first passed, then it was brought into the spirit of operational programs when farms were raised, when cattle stocks were purchased, there was a serious agricultural economy that based its development on livestock farming. Unfortunately, today 10 years from that time, we can only conclude that it was a beautiful project that had no bright future. All the governments that came after that simply failed to make a significant turn. So, also here, expecting the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals to be another law that is reformal, which gives a new boost, a new hope to farmers, we can in fact conclude that we have aligned with the EU and we have not, we have not been able to comply with the needs of Croatian cattlemen. They will, of course, apply and are mandatory to implement all of this, which in fact states in the law that we could also distribute cattle and meat and everything we produce except in the Croatian market and market, the EU common market. And then it's actually for thinking when we have a package today, a tax-law reform package, that it announces a significant reduction in VAT on meat. We could also say that this is a reform law that reduces VAT on imported meat, we would certainly be more correct, because we were actually able to continue the tragedy that we have in our livestock industry and that a number, here and recently I read a report that raised their facilities in the framework of the livestock development programme that those who may have been at the turning point waiting for a moment, a sign of a better time to maybe re-capture the forces, get into that production that already knocked them off their feet once. I'm afraid that even now, a law which, by its own name, as well as all the other laws we have from this vault, promises much but is very little. I must conclude that a lot of these laws, here is the Ministry of Agriculture, proposed, discussed, raised a huge pomp, the minister, was a respected respected respected person for his performances on the very reforms he announced, promoted, but in reality the result was lagging behind. The result is more what draws us, some other developmental component than what we have done with the debates, actually proposals from the government, discussions here in the Parliament and final adopted laws to bring into Croatian agriculture, into Croatian livestock farming. And the fact is that here today there were more of us on the Assembly Committee on Agriculture where we could discuss this proposal better than today because it's very difficult to look at the screen and perhaps a few of you that I should address. So, yes, but well, it's probably the fate of all the laws that come in late evenings in this debate. And we need to be that attention and people who are here, some who are all day, and the public is certainly less. We're getting away with it, too. We're going through things that we should really, significantly, much more think, think and supplement. So it's not just the waist that's happy, with this law we can say that the profession, it's definitely going to say that it's getting a new quality, a new dimension. And you should always look for progress as we expect technological progress, so these in the breeding stages should always look for progress, thus becoming both more quality and more recognizable. However, if we begin to count the throats of cattle then we will see that we do not have an exodus of people only in Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, Lici, anywhere in Sinj, but also somewhere that cattle went. Except that cattle ended up on the table in the meantime. Once we were able to restore that stock fund, we imported a significant number of cattle from the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, in recent times it came from Romania and other countries. But now we're witnessing that there's no more difficulty in trying to rebuild it because there's no more for us. We had a chance. Once we could say, it was war. There have been changes, we've gone from a socialist thinking system to a capitalist one where it was meant to train production to be market-oriented, to be successful, much more perhaps qualitative, and we haven't passed that test, we've got a new opportunity, the state's decision has been made, new funds have been invested, there's started a new momentum, there's been optimism, there's a trade, there's been a trade in significant money. After that, we kneeled again. What did we just say was an excuse? The war isn't. All the policies have said, we support it. So should we say that I haven't heard a single policy run by the state that she said she didn't support it, they all supported it, but we have a simple production that seems to be going not to decrease but to fall, and it's only a question of when we get to the bottom, how much we'll be able to do one day, if we find ourselves in any difficult situation to worry about, in fact, basic human needs, and certainly quality nutrition is one of the most important things. We'll meet at a low-quality meat strike, we'll find ourselves in the grip of insufficient quantities we can dispose of, market chains will actually collapse on their own, because if there are no people, if there's no production potential, then in fact traders can't find their own interest anymore. So today, we can say, this law has actually brought about what was planned, which is that we will not be persecuted by the EC, will not write pamphlets asking us to align. We're going to get a grade five, we've done our homework with what the teacher said. But have we become better businessmen, better farmers, better cattlemen, or have we just once again shown that we are old politicians who once again praise what we have produced that is not the best, and the results will be discussed in some new mandate, but who cares more then. And I'm afraid it's always like that because if we're somewhere now in the middle of this government's term, while this goes into effect, while there should be some results, there'll be elections, someone else, huh, I guess they'll know how to defend the liquids of the revolution, but it looks like this time not only the revolution is eating their children but it's also eating its cattle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93404	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Josip Križanic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93405	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. I also join my colleague Panenic's concerns. I could talk for five, six minutes in a similar tone on the same subject, and I think I can sign 99% of everything you said. I also agree that the import of meat and everything else has come to this limit that we can no longer stop it, and that Croatian agriculture is precisely a picture of this Assembly where 5 or 6 MPs are now discussing the cultivation of domestic animals. I'm sorry about this lack of interest, and I'm as an economicist who deals with livestock daily with these topics, and I've often wondered if it's worth doing or if we're going to import everything. I'm still going to say a few sentences about the law, about the metrics, so I can use those 10 minutes. So, we have already heard that this Law is a follower of the Law on livestock whose provisions date back to the 1980s, so it was necessary to make certain changes and give a summary of the unifying act and the implementation of the EU Directive and the regulation that we have taken over from the EU. Otherwise, this is an important Law on cattle farming for the reason that livestock farming in the Republic of Croatia represents 35% of total agricultural production. This Law regulates the cultivation, trade in genetic material, and the way domestic animals are reproduced. The implementation of artificial sensations, keeping records and registers in the production and transport of embryo seed, then the catastra of bee pashas, poultry, pigs, horses, as well as the supervision and control of breeding. The law regulates breeding associations, breeding organisations that the ministry recognises from 10 years of age. Such an association or organisation then submits a request to the Ministry for recognition of one or more breeding programmes aimed at restoring the breed or creating a new breed, which is decided by the Ministry on the basis of the opinion of the committee or advice appointed by the Minister. The association or organisation independently performs specific activities such as the management of parent books, breeding documentation of DNA analysis, while third parties can be entrusted with carrying out development tests and other... It's a feature. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Genetic diversity is reflected by the implementation of breeding programs, the use and storage of genetic and biological material and the bank of genes. They must meet certain conditions such as the genetic resources of individual species and breeds of domestic animals, facilities, equipment and professional staff. The endangered breeds are part of national heritage, and their preservation is achieved through the implementation of approved breeding programmes. The main objective of implementing the breeding programme is the creation and cultivation of breeding animals. The reproduction of domestic animals is carried out by natural discount, artificial sensation and transfer of embryos, etc. embryo transfer. Only farmed male throats should be used in a natural authorisation in accordance with an approved breeding programme aimed at preserving the breed. Artificially, the sensation can be performed by legal and natural persons, while the transfer of ova and embryos is carried out only by legal persons. Legal and natural persons engaged in the activities must keep records and information on... register. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The training of persons to perform these tasks shall be carried out by semen collection and storage centres, as well as by authorised educational institutions. Since breeding and selection, as well as sparring and selecting breeders or embryotransfers of animals, is the highest degree of entry into the future properties of animals, and this work everywhere in the world is dealt with by the best, top experts, geneticists, veterinarians, agronomists and biologists, I have felt that this law would require a stricter determination of the rules that jobs in order to improve genetic properties should be carried out, especially as we know that at the agricultural and agronomic college, very few students have been enrolled recently, and it is they who should be doing this work tomorrow, and in this country they are very difficult to employ because these occupations and professions, as we have just heard, have become very little attractive. I think we've been a little too liberal here in the laws so often, by selecting and rearing people without any professional qualifications or expertise, which is not good. Therefore, there are also frequent reports of insulins, first of all on the genotype and later on the phenotype of the target animal. Domestic animals intended for breeding and their traps traded on the EU market and EU entry must be returned to the zoo by a technical certificate. A cadast of bee pashas is introduced, which is run by a beekeeping alliance that determines the pasture order. Only pure breed poultry and grandfather breeding flocks which must be included in the central list of breeding flocks may be produced from eggs of pure breeds and breeding flocks. This law lays down rules of competition for hooves which must not differ from the rules in the EU, while national sports alliances are responsible for their application while competition organisers apply the rules. The inspection of the implementation of this law shall be carried out by a agricultural inspection which controls a whole series of provisions, such as enforcement, trade, documentation, breeding and keeping and compliance with the conditions. On the day of entry into force, there will be a law on livestock farming and a lot of, as many as 29 regulations concerning livestock law, while new sublaws relating to the implementation of the new law will be passed by the minister within a year. Secretary of State for the exceptional importance of this law on Croatian livestock I appeal to the ministry, to you to have the rules passed as soon as possible so that it does not happen, given that in the last year we have passed a lot of new laws in agriculture for implementation, adaptation with the EU, that these rules are adopted in time so that these laws that are good, which are positive rules can be applied as soon as possible in practice. Thank you. The HDZ Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93406	I thank my esteemed colleague Križanić. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93407	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, i.e. colleagues and colleagues. We are talking about the implementation of the EU regulation and definitely when the implementation of the EU regulation is there will be no bile debates or a great return to the past, we will not strive to grow a pieted pig from a European feral pig known as... We'll leave it behind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I have to touch a little bit of the past when we've already allowed ourselves that luxury to be a little off by this late time, although it's the same theme because my colleagues said everything before me. My colleague Panenić has more or less hit the core of all problems, I believe that he could talk for another half hour and say a lot, we in Slavonia really live very much with these problems related to the breeding of domestic animals, products from the same, diet, etc. Of course, you and your colleague said this measure, so I won't go too far, even though I've prepared myself. My debate will go this way to say how wrong we were as a society out there in the '90s. when we failed to have a strategic thought about what we wanted to do with it at all. The village was then in the '80s. Let's say it lived largely on the industrialization of cities, at least that's how it was in Slavonia, you had nearby towns of these villages, people were more or less working in some factories, at the same time having some piece of land, some domestic animals, of which they lived, and to make the matter more interesting their goods surpluses could sell to a nearby Pica, let's say in Djakov it worked I mean every other Thursday or one Thursday in the month, now I don't remember, these were huge rows of peasants who were waiting with tractors in order to sell their two pigs or something else. We didn't know what we wanted as a society then, and we didn't know what we wanted as a society, and instead of stepping into something better, we let that through the conversion and privatisation of this factory where these people were working, which I initially said go down, and our people didn't manage. Our people still need someone to organize things for them so I'm going to tell you an anecdote and an example of how it works with our people, and without accusing the man I'm going to talk about, he's just part of the system. I had this opportunity to host the Đakov Polish Ambassador and, among other things, they were on the subject, visiting a small kitchen producer who produces about 500 pieces of cuisine annually. The Ambassador asked him, sir, if I wanted to provide you with 5,000 pieces to carry you to Warsaw every year, could you arrange it for me? This guy told him I couldn't. Now here we are in a problem, here we are in a problem especially in Slavonia, Slavonac is a little different from Zagorec, from Međimurec, from the Dalmatians, he may have gotten better, but our people have learned to help them a little bit anyway. Here you spoke to counterpart Panenic about the needs of Croatian cattlemen in the context of us implementing this EU regulation, but what we are going to do with implementing the needs of these people is here we have failed. I'm not sure this law will solve all these accumulated problems because, as I said, we don't think about this at all. This law itself, it promotes certainly the legal framework of national legislation, harmonizes with the EU, but someone said it well, I don't remember who, we're actually just good students of some professors who gave us the task and we've done it well, which will be in reality we'll see. Unfortunately, for the past 28 years, we have been taught that nothing good has ever been seen in all of this. Here's to Slavonia, look what's with Slavonia village, we've had a long topic today about mountainous mountainous areas, but believe me, people are moving out of Slavonia, I don't have to think about it, you know that as well as you know from these mountainous mountain areas, just because they've lived out of their work for years, which is no longer at the price, they have no place to sell. You can't sell it anywhere today, your product, but believe it or not, you almost have it anywhere else to buy it. About the law itself, a colleague said everything, so I won't repeat myself, I'm just going to say in the end, let's think a little bit about where we're going, the SDP Club will, of course, support this law, with all those remarks that the Committee on Agriculture pointed out, and especially the Committee on Legislatives. We don't expect this to be, this may be a framework, much more, than the previous law, but I guess we'll talk about it through which Mr. when we see the results of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93408	I thank my esteemed colleague, Damir Tomic, for this debate. There is no colleague of Maras, on behalf of the promoter, final word, State Secretary, Tugomir Majdak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93409	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs, respected representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I thank you for the debate of all the participants in the debate, and I will highlight only a few details in the final account. This law provides a legal framework for the first and foremost better breeding of domestic animals, but also for increasing the competitiveness of Croatian livestock producers. On the other hand, it is fully functional and without regulations, which we will bring within the shortest possible time limit, instead of 27 regulations, which the current law on livestock, implementing acts, this law defines 4 regulations and they will be passed within the time limit we have defined. Also at present, 15 breeding associations, organisations, primates, or associations and alliances are receiving support from the Ministry of Agriculture for their work. We will finance the next year, the amount for these and other organizations that are being announced, and there are 6 breeding organisations that have not yet appeared in the competition, so that through this framework, which is provided by this law and which allow them to work as high as possible in the breeding of domestic animals. These were some of the notes, which I consider to be condescending, once again, thank you for the constructive debate, we will carefully consider all quality proposals, until the second reading, in the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93410	I would like to thank Secretary of State Majdak for his final statement. We've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank State Secretary Tugomir Majdak and the head of the agriculture ministry sector, Mr Tomislav Makar, for the reasons of the bill. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93411	Proposal for a law on the breeding of domestic animals, first reading, P.Z.E. No. In 399, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 98 for, 12 abstentions and 11 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93412	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marine Fisheries, first reading, P.Z. No. 397 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the relevant Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I call on the representative of the proposer, Mrs Maria Vukkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93413	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam MPs, distinguished gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The Law on Marine Fisheries was adopted at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament last July and entered into force on 8 July and was carried out in NN No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Following the adoption of the law on aquaculture in December 2017, some major amendments to this law took place, except for certain provisions published in the NN No. Regulation (EU) No 130/2017 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1307/2007 (OJ L 298, 21.7.2017, p. 1). The adoption of this law, at national level, sets out the objectives of fisheries policy, the way of management and the protection of renewable biological resources of the sea, the manner and conditions of fishing, data collection and handling, the management of the fishing fleet, the competent authorities for the implementation of support in fisheries, the organisation of the market, the national authorities and other essential issues for marine fisheries. When we talk about the EU level, the adoption of this law, a new control system has been introduced, serious infringements have been introduced, obligations to land products, the establishment of a system of weighing fishery products, the management of fishing capacity, the common organisation of the market and the like, on the possibility of further implementing all relevant and valid EU regulations relating to the common fisheries policy. Also, the law lays down frameworks for the adoption of a new operational programme for fisheries and maritime, for annual data collection plans, as well as fisheries management plans. The law also allows for the sustainable exploitation of renewable biological resources of the sea, living wealth of the sea through protection measures, and contributes to an economically justified, socially beneficial and ecologically balanced manner, maintenance, sustainability and developmental coastal and island communities. These changes are angles. technical nature, first of all, still a new law needs to be brought into line, with those laws that later came into force with terminology, which are, first of all, the Act on aquaculture, the Law on Food and the Law on the provision of services in tourism. It also updated the list of regulations which entered into force after the entry into force of the Law, in particular the new Regulation No.2017/1004, concerning the way data are collected, managed and supported by scientific advice. In addition to these technical amendments and harmonisations, some of the provisions for which the practice has been shown and needs to be clarified have been further clarified, the recurrence of infringements in different articles of the Law has been removed, leading to doubts in the management of fishing inspectors, and further clarifications, precision and simplification of certain provisions relating to sports and recreational fisheries, to fishing in protected areas of nature, to storage of privileges and to authorisation for certain fishing gears. One of the most important changes in this Act, in line with the policies of administrative and cost-delivery and citizens and the economy, is that professional training will no longer be paid, and the tasks are entrusted to advisers in the system of the Ministry of Agriculture, which, for those tasks, will be carried out free of charge for the citizens and for the users. The proposed amendments and additions to this Act have also been corrected to improve overall application and simplify. In addition, provisions relating to drones and to the use of recordings are introduced as such shots will be used in the fishing inspection or in control, and it was also necessary to legally provide for and enable qualified workers of the Ministry of Agriculture to manage that drone system. Finally, I would just like to point out that these amendments and additions to the Maritime Fisheries Act have no effect on the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93414	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State, Maria Vukkovic. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. We have one replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93415	Thank you very much. Dear secretary, speaking of marine fisheries, you said this is now the addition of the law that essentially came into force last year, you said. So it's just too crazy in us, but we don't wonder what our fishermen are getting and whether the fish fund in the Adriatic Sea is protected because simply while our fishermen are restricting themselves to various laws, so far they're moving out of shores and islands, and at the same time we don't have foreign fishing fleets hunting fish however they want, they're destroying the fishing fund because we don't have the strength and courage to declare an exclusive economic belt. I believe that you as secretary in charge of fishing, probably that's your portfolio when you came here... , that we should advocate much more for declaring an exclusive economic belt, mainly for the protection of fish stocks from foreign fishing fleets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93416	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju. Answer, State Secretary Mrs. Vuchkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93417	Here, as far as the difference between the current arrangement and the economic exclusive belt is concerned, I will repeat by who knows which times there are differences, but not as far as the common sea is concerned, therefore an economic exclusive economic belt would not bring any change as regards the control and use of fisheries resources. The second issue is control and control, with which it has no bearing on declaring an exclusive economic belt, and so we will point out a bright copy of the final arrangement after 13 years of trying to question the apple cauldron. There have been conditions for the long-term resolution of this issue after 13 years, we have concluded a bilateral agreement with the Italian Republic for sustainable use and have already begun to show results, and this bilateral cooperation is even embedded now and in recommendations... Surveillance, control, even foreign fleets will be better when the drone system arrives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93418	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mrs. Maria Vukkovic. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93419	Thank you very much. Once again, I welcome everyone, and this time the secretary of state is with us. I do what I must at first commend. So, a year after we passed the Law, it was found that some changes were needed, I would like to see such changes happen in most laws. So what is proposed, which is eventually adopted here when it comes to application, is definitely the need for certain changes. Change is daily. We must, we all change, expect our fishermen to change, so in the end we must admit sometimes that change has sometimes occurred independently of us, and some have arisen because we are wrong. We're wrong and it's human to sin and human to correct it. So on my side of the commendation that it's going that way if it's going to change the law every day, we're going to change it if it goes in the direction better. So, I welcome any progress. What I have to say for sure, I'm not fit for sea fishing so you can talk about it. They need to discuss him first and foremost those who are there, who live there, who do it. In fact, even after the last changes that took place, there was just a huge discontent in the area of the so-called area. sports fishing or something, I'd say more amateur, which expects people in what way. Of course, every legislator must always consider that when people enter some changes, they prefer to be very informed. We here in the assembly have the opportunity to ask you and to meet you and look for clarifications, what's even more important, on this field where these changes we're discussing, which we're adopting, which we're actually proposing something that should be better, that they're best informed there, that they're being tested and that based on these results, we can say whether we did a good job or not. Major reforms are often announced. The best law that's going to happen in this world, I'm not talking about this specifically now, but after that change will be visible, change is clear, we have a positive direction, but the life of the field, it often speaks differently. Sometimes even the best intention gets quality support, and what often happens is that, in fact, a legislator, who is a leader, of all state institutions, predicts something, and that his services that are on the ground, don't do it in spirit, as the legislator actually thought. So here and here, I hope here with these changes, that the fishermen won't be the ones to answer, so after a few days, they'll complain again. We expect every law to show clear indications, how it will be good, how it can improve the situation because, the patience of everyone, Croatian fishermen, farmers or any other economy and all of them make up the economy. In fact, they are expected not only to change but to be fast enough, but to be intense enough, to ensure that this progress is visible in a short time. Of course, here, now listening, development and often and inscriptions, about how the fishing fleet has no potential to restore itself anymore, that we have a growing fish fund on which to create quality profits in more intensive fishing, of course it worries. And I'm glad there are initiatives like this, like apples, where there's actually a model to ensure survival. It seems to me that we should communicate clearly on the ground as well. Because if we can't ensure that we have a fish fund in the future, then it's going to happen to us with the law we just had. We will have the best laws, but as we have said about livestock, there will be no cattle, there will be no fish here and in the end and that peasant in Slavonia and the fisherman in Dalmatia, they have the same result, they have the perfect law, they ride on beautiful highways and they enjoy another country, and it is not Croatia, in which we should all work, to create conditions, that people want to live here. Only I would point out, any change is welcome, but the intensity of the change must be even stronger, even stronger, and then it will stay and hope here, since your work, that one day, when you leave that position, I was in the government, who has implemented key reforms today, we all enjoy the results together. If so, you will surely have the support of the Independent List Bridge Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93420	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for this debate. Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93421	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. After these inspiring words by Mr Panenic, I think that normally you should do as much as possible and make things better, but it's not as grey as you present yourself. Personally, by preparing for this law, I've heard from a number of fishermen who've been working with the ministry since the first days, on these changes and additions, which, I must admit, are technically in the process and they are satisfied with this. So it's not all so gray and you need to spread some positive stories, especially when it's about our peasants and fishermen. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Marine Fisheries Act. As the State Secretary has also noted, we have adopted the Aquaculture Act this year, so they have ceased to comply with these provisions of this law which, from 2017 but the entry of the law itself, allow the implementation of certain EU regulations, in the area of fisheries, establish a normal and new control system, introduces a number of new infringements, but also a system of fishing capacity management, as well as a common market organisation, fisheries products. I think that the most important part of this law, the setting up of the framework for the adoption of an operational programme for fisheries and the setting of fisheries policy objectives, the management plan for the fisheries fund, the way data is collected, in particular, which is referred to in this law and through the Institute, is to be used for scientific purposes, all for the purpose of restoring marine biology and normally all within the framework of the EU's common fisheries policy. It is also very important to highlight, the smog of this law and later in the operational programme, precisely the responsible sustainable exploitation of living wealth of the sea, and the ecological balance, and the economically justified way, through conservation measures, the restoration of ecosystem resources and all controls that we need to carry out in the preservation of our sea. We heard, of course, the secretary state, all of these changes that contribute to the Marine Fisheries Act, are those technical events, the introduction of European directives, i.e. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The 6th regulation, to which fishing vessels and areas covered by this law, introduces the terms of fishing vessels under the Croatian flag, but also the essential regulation is also related to fishing in protected parts of nature, sport, recreational fishing, storage and management of fishing authorisations, but also to the reduction of the number of prescribed infringements, which are in certain parts between laws and matches. It is important to point out, it is related to this transfer of activities of organisation and implementation of vocational training, for economic fishing to Croatia's agriculture, forestry, advisory services, which will also relieve the Ministry of Agriculture in one way, as well as the introduction of control of fisheries through unmanned aircraft, in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, which will see this law, and will help to monitor and collect later in infringement proceedings. Finally, it is important to stress that the operational fisheries programmes covering the period from 2014 to 2020 leave us definitely more money from the European funds, in particular, the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, which totalled EUR 252 million, the very amount of funds to be used in this implementation and the objectives of the Croatian fisheries policy, of course they must be significantly higher, in the fishermen themselves, in particular in the chamber, stressed that it is important to make more use of these funds provided for by the Fund themselves, but also by this operational programme themselves. We will definitely strengthen our domestic fleet in this way, but ultimately, we will also highlight what is most important, which is to preserve the biology and wealth of our sea. Normally, the HDZ Club will support this bill, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93422	I thank my esteemed colleague Anti Bačić. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. He's not present. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93423	Thank you. The Marine Fisheries Act, I hope it will be much nicer on the ground and a bigger, better time for fishermen than it was written. And I expect that there will be one measure in a Fisheries Act where we say here when our domestic fishermen in a fish-sale restaurant, that they'll have some incentive that they caught that fish, and we didn't import foreign fish because the worst thing that our foreign fleets do is take out our fish, that is. In our territorial waters fish and profits they have, they create additional value. Will the fishermen of this law have anything, which is positive through these measures? No, I don't. It is likely that this law is in line with European directives, and the best one is probably written, it lacks even a score. But what's in the implementation? What do the fishermen say on the field? The fishermen complain that foreign fleets are privileged in our waters. They do whatever they want and whatever they want. Nor who controls our territorial waters and we need to know that both land and sea is the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And that the relationship to the Adriatic Sea and our fishermen is equal. Nobody cares about this part of the territory and Croatia is a rich country and significant geostrategic only because it has the Adriatic Sea. We're just lucky that outside of a little fishing law we're going to have ballast water and big stains, which washes both oil tankers and in the center of the Adriatic we have huge stains that are simply due to the current and are larger even surface than the city of Split that are not moving towards our coast and our islands. Therefore, we do not protect our territory. We've got the secretary's esteemed, you've told it well, you've eloquently recited it, you've told you all the honor of saying, "exclusive economic belt," because right under the international law of the UN Convention in '82. Sir, Croatia has the right to declare an exclusive economic belt. The Council of Europe is asking us to declare it. Why aren't we declaring him? You want us to hang out with the Italians? We have no reason. We have no reason to be bad with our neighbours, though because these are our territorial waters, Croatian territorial waters, we do not protect our fisherman, our fishing fleet, we do not protect it, we have the right to do so. It's not that we're committing aggression, it's territory as well as land. As on land as we have, we control, so the sea is part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That's what I asked in the county to protect our territorial waters for both fishermen and for environmental reasons, especially for our people to survive on islands and coasts, so they can fish and we have a preserved fund. Don't like my colleague Panenic said we should run out of fish and our fishermen to hunt in Ireland. The only thing that's really being fulfilled from the Programme Reliable, HDZ, is that it's called a program to employ 180 000 people, it's credible, I appreciate it, it's getting less and less unemployed at the Bureau because they're in Ireland and there are fishermen among them, I know them personally who went to Sweden, Norway. No, no, I'm not talking about fishermen who have their ponds, they're protected by law, they have some incentive. I'm talking about the fisherman, the heavy one, he's gone, so we haven't protected agriculture in these areas, and mostly here, agricultural production, and we're not encouraging it, and it's expensive to keep our own fishermen alive. The gathering on the islands. Mostly in winter and in summer, when tourists come, of course they are rising prices so that it is a disaster and they cannot compete when one village in Italy has a stronger fishing fleet than the whole of Croatia, you are witnessing it and we all know that other members have a much stronger fishing fleet. We have the right to control our territory and no one can forbid it, it is the sovereign right of the Republic of Croatia as well as the mainland. You can't say this, like, territory is the sea. You're saying, what does an exclusive economic belt mean? What does control mean? Nothing then. I can wash out the tankers where the fish freeze, I can wash out, I can do whatever they want, I can drop ballast water, and they do that, and nobody gives a shit. And we're passing lip laws, and you said that a little while ago, you quoted this, what we have to do, and we have the right to protect the exclusive economic belt, our water, and that's the law, there's no one to stop us. Besides, we also have control mechanisms, and that's why this law. What do we make laws if we don't fish? 'Cause the fish is moving. If we don't have a fish fund, then there's no law. The other citizens who come into their fleets will not guard us, nor will they watch over where they hunt fish, and at what time, when they are allowed, when they are not allowed. We only work here for our people that we limit in everything and we allow foreign fleets to do whatever they want because we can't do it. We can, by international law. It's the territory of the Republic of Croatia and we're protecting our fish fund. If we had brought exclusively economics, we had ruled out the economic belt that we should not have, in order to join the EU. Just like we're courting others now, we're just being courteous. We had to close down all the generals, all the documents on the Homeland War, roll the foundations of the state just to close down, not declare an exclusive economic belt just to join the EU. And we signed, who knows what we signed, and God doesn't know. And unanimously voted here to join the EU. Unanimity. It is our right and obligation to protect our territory and that is our territorial waters. And please, here as Secretary of State, you are here in front of the government and the ministry, send this message to the Prime Minister, so that it will not be in the end that due to Italy's advocacy, because of someone's ambition to be on the throne of Europe. Croatia must be of interest to all of us. Croatia must not be anyone's unwanted wife to come, achieve some goal in the European Council, the European Parliament. We need that man, a fisherman who lives on any part of the island or coast. And our obligation, regardless of Brussels, is something international, according to all the conventions. And so we'll protect the fish fund and then this law will have its effects, like this it doesn't. This is how we limit our fishermen, we chase them to, we take them to other countries, not to protect them, and we allow foreign fishing fleets to do whatever they want. Go to the fish and ask them. I was in the Zadar area, in the Sibenik area, fishermen show great dissatisfaction that foreign fishing fleets hunt fish and sell on our Adriatic in the tourist season, they earn. It's a disaster. It may seem strange right now under these lights, but when we go to the field and we talk to the fishermen, you go and you'll have it. If this doesn't happen again, you fishermen, you say I'm wrong. In all the markets where these fish are sold, even the EU funded that fish market where fish are sold, there is no longer the interest of our fishermen through legislation to be, because they are not competitive. We only make laws for our fishermen and the foreigners do whatever they want because they don't, for one reason only, we don't protect our territory and we don't consider it. We like it, so it's God's gift to the Adriatic, the Adriatic Sea. We have to keep him safe. We just took it from our children and the future. So once again I ask you that the key problem is to protect the fish fund and all these laws if we do not protect our territorial waters, which is our obligation to the mainland, all these laws are worthless, respecting your efforts and all invested in this law. The key is to protect and control this territory that is very important for the Republic of Croatia. It's our Adriatic Sea. And that's why we declare it, let's be bold, it's on the agenda of an exclusive economic belt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93424	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju. My colleague Maras is gone. The next debate was respected by Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93425	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with an associate. So tonight, when we talk about the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Marine Fisheries Act, I would pay attention to Article 28, paragraph 2, which is added and says that for the performance of sport fishing in parts of the sea that are protected under the regulations on the protection of nature in categories of national park, special reservation and nature park a special permit is issued and can only be issued with the permission of sport fishing issued by the Alliance. So in June of this year, I was approached by the Association of Kornatara, and there she presented the problems encountered by the residents and owners of the Kornati, as they say to the Kurnats, and there were your representatives. On this occasion, I would also like to thank the Ministry of Agriculture who responded very quickly. Namely, they highlighted their problem, one of the problems that since January 2016 they have not been able to get their licenses for recreational fishing or how they wanted traditional fishing. And after all the advances made by the ministry later and the Decision on recreational fishing in Kornati National Park, the president of the National Park Management Council also adopted on 25 July. So there's still an open call and the Kornatari can get those permits. However, it is recreational fishing and what they were talking about is traditional fishing. We are familiar at this meeting that unfortunately given the Council of Europe's so-called regulations. The Mediterranean regulations have disabled recreational fishing throughout the Adriatic and, of course, in the national park. Since the traditional fishing skills of the Adriatic are listed in the list of protected immaterial, cultural goods of the Ministry of Culture, so it is a little illogical that we are on the list of protected cultural goods with these same traditional fisheries, and on the other hand that no one can do it in Croatia, as they say do the Holy Trinity themselves, means livestock, olive growing and traditional fishing. Well, here, at this point, you would appeal and beg the Ministry for future talks and negotiations if they could in any way call for anything else on this list of cultural immaterial heritage and make it possible for our fishermen, or islanders. We also heard this morning when it came to the island law that some colleagues were saying that it would be good for traditional fishing to be processed in that law itself. And another cartoon on which we are also familiar with the same, that very many professional fishermen, especially swimmers, have in the contact area around the national park. They believe that the very poverty of the fish fund is because these swimmers are attracted to small fish because of the strong light, as well as to the larger and the last 5, 6 years that the Kornati Islands fund has been significantly impoverished. So much, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93426	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev Martinchev, for this debate. We have a final word on behalf of the promoter, respectable State Secretary Marija Vučković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93427	Thank you very much. Therefore, this law amending and supplementing the Law on Marine Fisheries, which is a major technical order, is harmonised with the adopted laws and regulations of the EU, but we are also seeking to simplify the application of the law on the fisheries sector by the observed parliamentary representatives. With regard to public notification and information on new provisions concerning complaints relating to sports and recreational fishing, I must say, of course, that last year, the whole of its regular procedure, firstly, second reading, lecturing, that we have shortened the time limit for granting licences to sports recreational fishing, which was discussed for 3 months earlier, that, in addition, because of these changes and permits that must be issued to all EU citizens on a non-discriminatory basis in those three months 10,000 permits, rather than for the whole 2018. But we respected the general public's remarks, we found one solution, we adapted, we found ways of changing the law to enter half-year-old licenses into the rulebook,... And so, under the same conditions, people got a 180-day permit, which was a pretty good solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In terms of sea control and surveillance, I have to point out here again by risking that I will be considered bureaucratic and insufficiently nationalised, that the exclusive economic belt, of course, has certain differences in relation to the ecological belt, the fishing belt, but in terms of measures, control and use of fishery resources there is no and it is not and I must say that because it is so right and rule, it is not in territorial waters of the Republic, but in waters now called EU waters, we have two, yes, it is not in 12 miles as far as territorial waters, so it stands, and we have two possible ways, these are bilateral agreements which are a sacred example of apple cauldron and of course negotiations with the Commission, and it can always be better. In the last year, however, we resolved the issue of Apple Cotline in the longer term, authorized, trained and issued solutions for over 200 persons from the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Defence and Customs Administration of the Ministry of Finance to carry out controls to strengthen our fishing inspection, obtain drones, highly modern equipment, and since last year after the agreement with the Italian Republic for the first time we receive signals as soon as an Italian ship enters the Croatia. Water. So we in that year here's a statistical number of pretty much what we did, and it can always be better. Finally, as regards swimmers in areas that are under a certain type of protection, I must stress that we are one of the few EU countries that has a specific control mechanism for swimmers and such areas and that we prescribe rules by which this is not allowed at all, that we are one of the countries that has such regulation and that we will check the case and reports. I thank you all for all the useful suggestions and motives you give us to be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93428	I thank the secretary of state, Mrs. Vuchkovic. We have two replicas, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93429	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I would look back, not on this part of the law, but on the procedure. You mentioned counselling yourself. But let's be realistic between us, sometimes before that instrument is introduced, so... The public really was one of the few deep, demanding processes that were being conducted in the field, a lot of conversations and so on, we have now come to a new modern age in which we should all be trained, as citizens of the Republic, as interested citizens of those involved, to try to guess when this will appear at our counseling, so that this bureaucratic language of the law, which is written, can be determined to determine what will happen to them in a future period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I understand what progress is, but you understand that, I understand, those who are on the subject, but those who are real users, they find out about this law when it's passed and when it applies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93430	I thank my esteemed colleague. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93431	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary Vučković, you come from Ploč and the Navy celebrates its anniversary right in Ploča, territorial waters are part of the Croatian Contemporary Space and Croatia has the right to declare an exclusive economic belt only the difference from a protected ecological fishing belt in the fact that we do not have that full application of the exclusive economic belt but parts. It's like you buy, we have, like, you buy a car without a door, without a window, without a tire, without a car, without all the parts, that's just the part we use. And we need to use an entire exclusive economic belt on our territory. And we have the right to international law and the UN Convention. And that's what we have to do, that's our territory, that's our obligation to future generations and to the fish fund and to the ecological conservation and control of the Adriatic Sea, and where we get and expand by an exclusive economic belt over the control of our territory. Therefore, it is our duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93432	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this. Marija Vukkovic and the head of the Agriculture Ministry sector, Mr. Marija Rogosic, for reasons and answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. With this, we've exhausted all the agenda points for today. We continue tomorrow with work at 9.30 in the morning with the agenda of the draft fiscal responsibility law, first reading, P.Z. No. 403. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. The session was interrupted at 20.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-20-0.u93433	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Marine Fisheries, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 397, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Maritime Fisheries Act, 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 102 votes for and 19 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
