ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u65661	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, Vice-President, Vice-President and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you at the beginning of the session to pay tribute to the homeland, by performing anthem "Beautiful Our Homeland". - The performance of "Beautiful Our Homeland" – Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to pay tribute with a minute of silence to all those who have contributed to the creation of an independent and free Croatia, especially to Croatian defenders and all who have given their lives for the Homeland. - A moment of silence - May their glory be eternal, and thank them! – Dear colleagues and colleagues, you received the minutes of the 5th and 6th session of the Croatian Parliament by electronic means. Any objections to the record? If no objection is made, we adopted the minutes of the 5th and 6th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We are now moving on to the agenda of the session. In addition to the call for a session, you also received a draft agenda, the final draft agenda was submitted by electronic means. I would like to stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda are printed in bolder letters. These points did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation. In the final call for the agenda, I added 13 new points under regular numbers: 1, 10, 11, 17, 18, 24, 25, 32, 33, 42, 43, 44, and 72. These are the Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held in 2017. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act. The final proposal of the Law on Wooden Cultures of Short Sights. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Encouragement Act. Proposal for a law on state support for research development projects. Final proposal of the Law on Administrative Inspection. Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. Report on regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. Report on a regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 and 2016 for the needs of national minorities and the Rules of Procedure of the Advocates for Children. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum and we can make a valid decision. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure will be decided on the draft laws for which the Proposer proposes the adoption of an emergency procedure. These are the items: 5, 6, 7, 9 and 67 of the final draft agenda. These are therefore: Proposals for a Law to confirm the Cooperation Agreement for Partnership and Development between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic and Afghanistan, of the other part, on the final proposal of the Law. Proposal for a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Romania and the Government of Romania on mutual provision of support from the host country with the Final Proposal for the Law. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Kazakhstan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax avoidance by the Final Proposal of the Law. Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Stability and Co-ordination Contract in the Economic Monetary Union between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Helen Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden with the Final Proposal of the Law and the Proposal for an Amendment to the Law on Supplement for Children with the Final Proposal for Law. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? If there are no objections, I would like to conclude that the proposal for an emergency procedure has been adopted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 225(3). I consider the Rules of Procedure established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, the objection can now only be made to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. Do any of the MPs and MPs have objected to the inclusion of points 1, 10, 11, 17, 18, 24, 25, 32, 33, 42, 43, 44 and 72 of the final draft agenda that did not include the draft agenda that you received with the call for the 7th session? If there is no objection, I would like to determine that these points are also included in the 7th session agenda. This is how we, ladies and gentlemen of the council, set the agenda. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, I should now publish this established agenda in an appropriate manner, I suggest that if you agree that I do not read it fully but allow me to announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda. May I have your attention, please? We're going to vote now. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European These are: - Proposal for a law on the gas market with a final draft of the law, - Proposal for a law on the confirmation of an enhanced partnership agreement and cooperation between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, on the final proposal for a law, - Proposal for a law on the validation and amendment of Article 124. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court with the final draft law, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on patent law, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Law on Industrial Design, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Marks of Geographical Origin and Marks of Origin of Products and Services, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Topography of Semi-Leading Products, - Final Proposal for a Law on the Conduct of Geodetic Activities, - Final Proposal for a Law on Family Agricultural Economy, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on National Infrastructure of Spatial Data, - Proposal for a Law on Professional Pensions, - 13.a) Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution of Presidents and Members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Financial Services, and (b) a Decision on the appointment of the Presidents of the Governance of the Governance of the Governance of the Croatian Agency for Financial Servicesing Agency for Financial Services. And the last proposal for a decision to elect two deputy attorneys for the children. Unlisted acts are published on the website of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that we have a quorum, and we can rightly decide. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. This is point 1 of the proposal for a law on the gas market with a final proposal for a law. Article 206(1) is replaced by the following: I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under points 2 and 3 of the proposed supplement? These are the proposal for a law to confirm an enhanced partnership agreement and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, on the final proposal for a law. 3rd Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendment to Article 124. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court with a final draft law. In the absence of any comments, the proposal for an emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 7th session agenda? These are points 4 to 14 of the proposed supplement. If there are no objections, these items shall be included in the session agenda. This complements the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u65667	Mr. President, thank you. The club of representatives of MOST is against an emergency procedure for the adoption of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We also believe that we said this yesterday at a session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System so that these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which are very extensive, should be brought into two readings and that we would have the opportunity to point out in the first debate all the shortcomings of the current Rules of Procedure and then to hold a review on the Committee on the Constitution and to establish the final proposal. Please put our proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u65668	Arsen Bauk, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u65669	Mr President, the Club of Representatives of the SDP also opposes an urgent procedure for amending the Rules of Procedure for the same reasons as Mr Podolnjak explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u65670	Okay. We have two objections to the urgency of the procedure. In such cases, I must put that motion to the vote. Therefore, I am voting to vote on the draft Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to be voted upon by an urgent procedure, so as a final proposal of the Rules of Procedure. Please allow us to approach the vote. I find that the proposal has passed most of the votes. Seventy-seven MPs voted, 73 were in favour, four were against it. So was the proposal for a Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament with the Final Proposal for Rules of Procedure in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 7th session agenda, these are points 3 to 12 and 14 of the proposed additions? If there are no objections and these points are included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this complements the agenda. Now we're going to go to the vote, so I'd like to ask the MPs and the MPs to take their seats. First, we will extend the agenda as it always does at the beginning of the vote. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 7th session agenda with 7 new points. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. 1. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on pension insurance companies with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading. 1. Proposal for a forest law, first reading. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, first reading. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support, first reading. 1. Proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2018 - 2020. And the last seven. Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2018 Unlisted acts are published on the website of the Croatian Parliament, and Article 227. The Rules of Procedure set out firstly that the proposal to adopt an individual law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure, so I ask you to engage to check the quorum. I find that we have a sufficient number of MPs and we can make a right decision. Article 206 The Rules of Procedure shall determine that, following an urgent procedure, laws which comply with the documents of the European Union, if requested by the applicant, shall be adopted and shall not be voted upon. These are points first and second proposed additions. The first is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds with the final draft law. Second, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Companies Act with the final proposal for a law. In accordance with Article 206 of the first Rules of Procedure, I find that these legislative proposals are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Do any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the other points in the 7th session agenda? These are points from the third to the seventh additions submitted. If there are no objections to these points included in the agenda of the session, so I can tell you that the addition of the agenda has been established, so we are going to vote on the points discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u65673	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since this is about agenda points, I would like to take the opportunity to ask you as President of the Parliament, why are certain agenda points awaiting a report of three years, two years, such as the report on the work of the National Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, the report on the work of the CNB for two years and more? Mr. President of the Parliament, is that an accident? Do you decide for yourselves what is the point of putting some points on the agenda, and they are not in any order? Here, please answer because I'm simply as a representative confused and I'm asking myself if there's any point in making a bill, changing the law if we never discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u65674	You too, Mr. Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u65675	Your Honor, here's a lead. We'll soon mark one anniversary. In fact, almost a year ago, MOST referred to the parliamentary procedure so that the amendments to the Law on Elections to the Croatian Parliament where we are looking for 3 preferential votes where we want to apply the same provisions that we have applied to the Law on Local Elections, that people who are legally sentenced cannot run and thus we have prevented ourselves in the previous local elections 3000 meanings, candidates of various parties that they can even run in the elections. We ask that the same thing be applied to parliamentary elections, and we ask that citizens be allowed to choose people by name and last name, by specific people, not by the great leader, and then use that model to threaten... Upadica Jandroković: A colleague of Grmoi, a colleague of the Grmoi./.......certain MPs if they do not vote as the great leader says, I ask you: why don't you allow here...... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u65676	Comrade Thunderbolt, I beg you to stop now. So you, uh... You can't. [[You can't hear it.]] Because I asked you if you had any objection to an emergency procedure. I let you say, you're now beginning to express political views on one of the laws you've proposed. I'll answer you why some laws are included, why they're not, but we don't have to listen now, since I asked you if you have any objections to an emergency procedure...... Okay. [[You can't hear it.]] What law? Okay, thank you very much, I'll explain it to you now. [[Well, I said what remarks I have.]] Okay, here's the deal. [[Grmoya raid: I have observations that a year of the law that we have referred to in the procedure cannot come to the agenda.]] Now, this week we've discussed 35 points not only this week, but there's something left since last week. [[You have an emergency procedure and an emergency procedure.]] The dynamics that come into the government's laws, including your opposition initiatives, are really big, and we can't discuss this dynamic that we're doing everything that's come to me. As you have seen, we have discussed in this term now since I am the President of the Croatian Parliament very much reports since 2014, 2015, 2016. What we're going to do with these State Attorney's Labour Reports and the Croatian National Bank, but we're going with one dynamic. Here we discussed this week if I am not mistaken report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media 2014, 2015, 2016 and HINA for the same year. I don't feel responsible for these points being not discussed in the mandate of my predecessors. This is all we have to discuss, all points will come to the agenda. There are some suggestions as far as I know the opposition to include some of the points proposed by the opposition on the agenda of automation which the HDZ Club has accepted provided, of course, that we agree on the whole package, and then certainly these remarks that you are now talking about will fall off. So, please and I hope that by agreeing on a new Rules of Procedure, we will remove such objections about including points in the agenda most effectively. So there are no hidden intentions, but I ask you to understand that our priorities are to pass and discuss the laws that come from the government. So I realized there's no objection to the urgency of these agenda points, so then I think we put them on the agenda. Do any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the seventh session's agenda? These are points 4 to 17 of the proposed supplement. If there are no objections, then we believe that these points are included in the agenda of the session, and therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues are set up to supplement the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are now starting to ask questions to the Government or to an individual member of the Government in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure, Articles 132 to 139. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. The first in line for asking questions is representative Furio Radin who asks questions from Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66984	Honored Ministers of Science and Education Dr Blaženko Divjak, the relativity is all around us so that some of the problems that are for some are great for others, emboldening their lives. In fact, the only problems that concern individuals are because they make their lives miserable and unhappy. I'll take it as an illustration of the big problems, for example. The problems between the states, the problem of the Piran Bay that I'm taking just because I'm drawing a little attention, but it's not a question that I'm going to ask you. The problem of the Piran Bay, for example, For some countries it is irrelevant and caricatureal while it is important for us, and for Slovenia it is crucial. Why did I take the Piran Bay? Because on the shore of that bokun sea in Piran was born Guiseppe Tartini, and Guiseppe Tartini is one of the world's largest composers. The conservatory in Trieste bears on his behalf, on that conservatory go many Istrians and Croats and Italians and they are almost regularly scholarshipd from the Italian state or pay it out of their pocket. They come back unlike the other students here and then go to Ireland. And when they come back, there's trouble. The Agency for Science and Higher Education recognises them with high professional training, but the Ministry does not give them a solution to the regular profession through the committee responsible for passing the expert examination. So they can't pass a professional exam and eventually become clients of the Employment Service. Some professors, ministers, have already lost their jobs, some are teachers I'll pick it up later. [[Intruder President: Comrade Radin, time is up, please question.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66985	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66986	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Appreciated representatives and MPs, Croatian Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I agree that in fact, the personal right and the exercise of that personal right is something that we really need to regulate well and make sure that in the different mazes of legal regulations, regulations and regulations do not lose that right that every man should be exercised, here specifically if I understand well the right to work in the Republic of Croatia for someone who has finished if I again understand the study beyond the Republic of Croatia, specifically in Italy. If we are talking about regulated professions and the profession of educators, teachers or professional associates actually belong, then it is on the list of regulated professions, then we have quite extensive legislation, in particular the Law on regular professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications that we adopted in 2013 when we joined the EU Republic in order to comply with the regulation on regulated professions. In the Republic of Croatia, if we talk about artistic education, i.e. the right to work in areas and teachers in the artistic field, it is regulated by the Law on regulated professions and knowledge of qualifications, but also by the Law on Education and Education of Primary and Secondary Schools and the Third Law on Art Education. In this respect, by 2013, the agency, as you yourself stated, could bring such solutions on its own, but by our entry into the EU, there is also the jurisdiction of individual chambers and ministries. Here, specifically, when I talk about art studies, the Ministry of Science, Science and Education and this proposal by the Commission, the minister, or the minister in charge of this portfolio, brings a resolved commitment to the right to work in schools or preschool institutions. Here the commission actually makes a proposal that can be trumpeted. So it can be given directly to work, to deny the right to work, or to seek some additional conditions. And I unfortunately, here, here I agree with you, I found the situation, that a lot of these objects were in between. So you were looking for something extra. We are, of course, reviewing these procedures and will certainly bring a clearer rule, so that those who seek this right can know what is next, and here I thank you for asking. However, what I would now point out is that, apart from these many laws and regulations that regulate this topic, we really need to approach the common instrument, which is a qualification framework, which will enable us in Croatia, to through the instruments of the European Qualifications Framework and through the harmonisation at the level of qualifications, and not in comparison with the study programmes, recognise this right to work and in the professions that are regulated, or which are on that list that the Government has adopted in relation to regular professions. Here, I will do my best to make sure that this rule, as soon as possible, so that we can enable these personal rights and demands related to work in schools and educational institutions to be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66987	I thank the minister. Here's a comment, dear fellow Furia Radina.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66988	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you, Minister, because their diplomas are equivalent to Bologna's. And it's under Italian law, because that's where it's regulated. If they're under Italian law, then we can... And it's about music and it's about a country where music really means something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These people finished the internship, paid for the paperwork, paid for the extra seminars, which probably only serve to hire someone, and after that, their fate, if we don't try, will be to end up at the employment office. In addition, the government programme foresees exactly the kind of thing in the part that we have reported as national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66989	Thank you. We move on to another question, the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar, which is asked by Agriculture Minister Tomislav Tolusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66990	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, Mr Tolusic, here is before I ask a specific question, to point out just a few things that both of us will agree on. Croatian agriculture is in a difficult state. Everything that doesn't fall, everything that doesn't grow, we import everything we shouldn't import, we export everything that shouldn't be exported. So this year we exported soybeans of 108000 tonnes to the neighbouring country, which will process the soybeans and will earn considerable added value. On the other hand, in Slavonia's cereal, we have a case to import bakery products. You today, you can go free in the Slatina end of the silo, you don't have to look back or look up so the bird doesn't poop you, because there are no more birds on that silo, no more wheat. So agricultural trends aren't good. The key problem that you have highlighted is the availability of agricultural land. And here we see actually the answer to that question, giving us an answer on the future of Croatian agriculture. The problems that arise around agricultural land, as well as the county land, which you and I come to, where there are more hectares, more particles of agricultural land than hectares. About 50,000 acres and over 50,000 particles. On the long side, the irregularities of Polish roads, not channel arrangements, are all problems that arise with agricultural land. And it is the minister's task to make it possible for agricultural land to be available effectively. In order to put agricultural land into operation, the development of agricultural production and the rise of its competitiveness. The minister's job should in no way be to develop political mechanisms, without control, with the establishment of an increasing administrative capacity, without ultimately having a function. And now my particular question. Why, if you have already abolished the Agency for the Making available to agricultural land, why are you leaving the information system, which could also enable control, who has the land available, the control of the implementation of economic programmes and at the end of which it could be established transparent implementation of a public tender. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66991	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to hold on for two minutes. Here you are, Minister Tolusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66992	First of all, welcome to all, the Honorable President of the Parliament and all the other MPs and MPs. My dear esteemed colleague, Mr. Sagar and my neighbor of my county, but above all, thank you for supporting what we're doing. We agree that the problems are absolutely you, and that's what the Ministry of Agriculture is trying to solve. And one way to solve these problems is exactly the new Agricultural Land Act, which is trying to speed up the allocation of agricultural land, which returns control mechanisms, in which it has been assigned, for the last 5 years in the very assignment of agricultural land itself, was not included in the DORH before 2012. We had everything and everything, we're restoring domicile, so we're making available to our domestic O.P.G.s, that the O.P.G. in Nova Bukovica gets land, not someone else and all the other things we do. When we talk about the information system, we're not leaving anything. Unfortunately, this information system and... This information system is also being processed in the DORH because of the likely illegality of it, so it is something that until the DORH resolves and the competent institutions will certainly not apply the Ministry of Agriculture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 2.4 million kunas were spent to make something, nothing was done. And that's the only reason the Ministry of Agriculture won't consider such a thing. And I expect that this law and all the measures we take with the greater spending of money from the Rural Development Programme in 2018 we will have much more farms, much more permanent land, much better machinery, much more efficient Croatian agriculture. And we hope that these trends together with you that we have are actually going to turn into a positive trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66993	Thank you. Here's a comment, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66994	Thank you. I'm not satisfied with the answer for the simple reason, when you mention it, I agree to let the State's Attorney's Office investigate what happened with the purchase of the information system. However, this is not an argument to reject the information system. You are a member of the Council for State Information Infrastructure, and there is the President of that Council. We have the State Office for Digital Society, the development of digital society. We cannot give up the system so easily or introduce a system that will allow for a transparent allocation of agricultural land that will allow for the prevention of malversion at any time. You know as a minister for sure and I know it, that there are lots of farmland in the Republic of Croatia owned by a state that at this point does not process farmers who have it on the lease. That's a sublet. Connecting all institutions through the information system would remove these things. And in the end when we talk about the competition, the competition could certainly be, let units of local self-government do it, but let them have bases, let them have information systems with which they will be able to do it transparently. And at the end of the day, which you as Minister will know how many contracts have been signed and how many contracts have been made. I didn't ask you two questions, I couldn't ask you two questions, but we'll have a chance, there'll be a debate, to answer how much debt there is now to unpaid agricultural land leases. Those debts have been piling up for years. Does the ministry have any concrete insight into this? It's hard to connect. You get from FINA's data, then you can't connect the payer to the resulting obligation. These are all problems that can be solved using the information system. Agricultural land is an extremely important resource and needs to be seriously approached, monitored, and in the end we will also have a likely shift or shift in these trends which are not good at this moment. We can say it's so picturesque for agriculture, we're better paid than we've ever played.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66995	The third question is respected counterpart Grozdana Peric, according to Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66996	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. My question was addressed to Minister of Finance, Mr. Zdravko Maric. In recent years, some opposition MPs have been unable to accept the fact that there has been a decrease in public debt in the last year, that we have GDP growth, that there have been reduced and lower interest costs in the financing of road debts, that there has also been an increase in credit ratings and that this is actually resulting from facts rather than from any data-cutting. They also marvel at the fact that EU revenues do not really want to be shown, i.e. they do not need to be reflected in the realisation of the state budget, although this is the fact that it only shows up to the level of real expenditures achieved, so they are neutrally affecting the budget itself. So, dear Minister, I ask you once again to explain to us what the trends in public finances are and what the recent state of public finances are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66997	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66998	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Honorable Representative Peric, thank you very much for asking. A brief answer at the beginning. Therefore, the state and trends of public finances are for Croatia from the taxpayers' budget spending as much as it earns. So, after a long time, we got into a situation that, I would say real and rational planning, and especially responsible budget implementation, we get into this exact situation. So, for the past two years, two years in a row, we've recorded better than expected results from the state budget itself, out-of- budget users, local self-government, and, of course, it's all reflected on the overall result of the public debt. At this point we only have preliminary data for 2017. Final and official data will make and compile the State Statistics Office. The Croatian National Bank with EUROSTAT's verification, so according to the European ESA 2010 methodology, the same methodology that has been conducted over the past few years when we were still four years ago and at levels of deficits of 5 and a half percent of GDP over 17 billion kuna. Therefore, an identical methodology, nothing has changed in that sense and everything as prescribed by the Republic of Croatia as a full member state leads, registers and as such records. However, according to this preliminary data, we from the government have therefore come public and said that according to all the data we have available is significantly better than expected to implement the state budget. Progress is also seen in the implementation of the budget of extra budget users, and when local self-government is added according to the European methodology, we can conclude that we have completed the last year not only with a balanced budget, balanced, but even in a surplus. So, we made extra income over expenditure. This is the main reason why our public debt for the second year in a row is a reduction, even stronger than the original expectations compared to the gross domestic product. So, from 82 and a half to some 88% according to our projections, and that's something they recognized, I'd say most of the local public, professional, financial, and we can definitely say international. You just said and quoted, so 4 days ago, or last Friday's credit rating agency Fitz focused not only this time on the outlook of a credit rating, but this time focused on the outlook of a credit rating but after a long time and raised one degree or one step of Croatian credit rating on BB+, which among other things in her report and recognised all these results that I am talking about, all these efforts were on the macroeconomic plan, whether on public finances but also as well as other credit rating agencies very clearly pointed out what it was necessary to do to move on. As Government, we have already made very clear at the beginning of our mandate that our goal is to return as soon as possible to the investment zone and the investment rating zone, which will help to further reduce interest costs. In the past 2 years, nearly 2 billion kunas are interest expenditures reduced, but they are still high we continue to work on taking the responsible public debt management with the state budget into the scope and broader coverage of the general state, so mostly the road sector, i.e. the highway and roads sector, but also others that we will allow to reach the necessary oxygen, of course for the functioning of interest to be as low as possible and of course public finances to be as healthy and sustainable as possible. So you can count on it, and that's what we talked about in the 2018 draft budget that we will continue with these trends and this way of thinking. Therefore, the rational use of expenditure resources and tax discharge and effective collection of income tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u66999	Thank you. Here's a comment, dear colleague Grozdana Perić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67000	I thank the ministers, so the goal for all of us is to have as high-quality data as possible, to show the results as well as to show what we want to do. It is also very important to regain trust in what we do and you do what you do as the Government so that both investments and the investment cycle begin and then we can achieve all together much more. So part of the expert public says this is a rating that's been ordered and paid. That's really irresponsible to say because then what we paid to bring down the ratings on the contrary might be said. So what the figures show must be really credible and in this way we can only restore trust to investors and citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67001	Let's move on, 4th question dear colleague Recajmir Varda asks the Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67002	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. Dear Ministers of Science and Education, Action Plan and e-consultation for the curriculum of the teaching of information runs until 4 February, but the report is expected around 5 March. But with the education of 78 future IT educators, a logical question arises which is the content of their professional training when e-consultation is just open in the IT curricula. And what are their competences for working with children aged 11 and 12, 5th and 6th grade of primary school? At the same time, you have fragmented the procurement of 3333 computers on 213 simple purchases, procurement procedures conducted by schools rather than, in my humble opinion, having conducted a single public procurement tender, thus achieving certain bonuses and most likely, reaching a higher number of computers than this is now the case because it is worth 9 million 999 thousand 999 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67003	I'd like to ask the Minister for an answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67004	Thank you for asking. Your Honor, I must say that the introduction of mandatory information in Croatian schools is something that is truly imperative because we live in the 21st century. I also have to say that the state has not invested in school equipment, computers in schools for 10 years. Of course, it was supposed to be the founders. Some did it and some didn't do it. We received this as a result of the questionnaires sent to schools and processed by the Information Committee established at Ministry level and in which there are 23 people who represent universities, HAZU, schools, ministry and processed these data and showed that a good part of the school has no conditions, not only for the introduction of mandatory information, but there are no conditions for teaching any items that require any equipment and certain digital skills. As regards the purchases you mention, the purchase of computer equipment in 2017 is secured in the rebalancing of the state budget of 10.5, so 10.5 million kuna, meaning 10.5 million kuna. And in this supply, so in this regard, the idea was that for those schools that have no minimum conditions, means neither minimum conditions nor only for teaching information, but for therefore not a single computer classroom according to the number of students who at school are equal to the minimum conditions, which would mean that schools have been instructed to implement public procurement according to the rules they have in order to ensure their minimum conditions. Which means they could get the desk computers, laptops, or other equipment they needed. And in this sense, it was not for the combined public procurement, but for the 10.5 million kunas, specifically by decision, based on the public-published criteria and the rankings of schools delivered to schools. Schools received from 9, so a minimum of 9 to some 60 thousand kunas that could be spent for that purpose. This year we have secured 26 million kuna in the budget, which of course we will, according to the decisions again and in accordance with the needs of schools, equip the next 450 schools. As regards curricula, the curricula under the Law on Education and Education is made by the minister, i.e. in this case by the Minister and by the decision to introduce new curricula for information, means for information and then mandatory for information, which then includes the mandatory IT class 5 and 6 of primary schools is at the public hearing. Not only are they prescribed there, it's not just a curricula, it's all the conditions that schools have to meet. And we've invited schools and parents' councils to show themselves about it. And the curiculum itself is part of the meaning of the curiculum that has been developed before as part of the entire curricular reform. The only thing that wasn't meant to be mandatory in the 5th and 6th grade. After that, there was a public debate. After that, we sent it to an international review, where we got the answers, so three internationally recognised reviewers and we improved that curricula. Also, we have installed meanings in this curricula what was a note, that is, our recommendation from HZU, and at this point we of course can conduct education. These 78 teachers we're missing, about 10% of teachers. All other teachers, IT teachers are in schools and everyone can get involved, even those who are currently on the stock market or are at the senior school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67005	I thank the minister. I'd like to ask my colleague Vardo for a comment. Here you go. I'm a colleague of Vard's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67006	Excuse me. Surely I'm not questioning your jurisdiction as defined by the law regarding the course program, or curricula. But what the problem is, I think it's the competence of those educators. If this is about pheromones or I don't know, similar professions, then there wouldn't be a problem. But I don't know how you chose them at all. Was it a public call? And how did these 78 educators ever get elected? On the other hand, this year, you have 26 million kunas for computer equipment. So you're not going to do the simple procurement procedure again, are you? You have a good example, now, here's a transparent, fair, public procurement for the Peles Bridge. The most favourable offer of six hundred million kunas. You on these 26 million kunas, according to the usual commercial practice, will get at least 5% gratis. And that's another 400 and something. So 400 and some computers that can go down to school. If you're doing public procurement through the Ministry, you have the capacity for that. I'd like to ask you a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67007	Thank you. Let's go to question number five. Dear counterpart Boris Milosevic raises the question of government vice presidents and economy minister, entrepreneurship and crafts Martini Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67008	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, my question concerns the Law on Investment Encouragement, i.e. the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Beatling adopted by the Croatian Government a few days ago and sent it into the parliamentary procedure. This law contains one new measure, which relates to the introduction of support for investors investing in economically inactive assets. It is one commendable economic measure, which we all need to welcome. This bill defines, which is an economically inactive property, in terms of the law. It defines the conditions and criteria for investors, predicts the possibility for investors to occupy the property without compensation. It also stipulates that if the investor honors the contract he has concluded with the State, he becomes the owner of that property. My question, in particular, is whether this measure, which is provided for by this bill, also refers to the property that is subject to the succession. This question, I ask in light of the fact that tomorrow the Croatian Parliament is discussing in law, in the management of state property, which introduces the possibility that the state has the property that is subject to succession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67009	Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67010	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Milosevic, the purpose of the Investment Encouragement Act is to strengthen and increase the number of measures, which will make Croatia as high-quality and attractive as possible with a more attractive investment space and also by implementing one of the important objectives that the government has set for itself, it is to activate state assets. State assets in different forms managed by the Ministry of State Assets have a lot. It is scattered all over Croatia and what it wants, it wants to be opened to private entrepreneurs, the possibility of participating in this activation. So, I think the law is very clear, it relates, to assets owned by the Republic of Croatia, to the lending of that property, will be decided by the Ministry of State Property. And what I think, particularly important, is that this measure that you mention applies to local self-government units, as well as to regional and regional self-government units, located over assisted areas. This means that units and local self-government and regional self-government, which are above the average of development, means large cities are excluded from this measure, just to achieve its fundamental purpose, its fundamental objective, which is to support and strengthen economic growth in less developed areas, giving the possibility of using state assets and interrupting in fact a long-term practice in which this property stands, insufficiently active, insufficiently economically exploited and effectively failing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67011	Please comment, fellow Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67012	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government, I am not completely satisfied with your response. As I said, this is a commendable measure, which everyone will support and welcome and may also ask the question, why it has not been introduced before, and I am glad to think about it, but I think it is necessary to clearly and explicitly say that investors cannot become owners, or they cannot acquire ownership of property that is subject to succession, and in fact the issue remains open to the fact that the possibility of the state having the property that has no real ownership and legal relations is that we can come into a situation where we have solved a problem, that we have activated an asset that has been inactive so far, but we are actually opening up 10 new problems. From the fact that some legal entities are entitled to the property, that investors invest in the property, expecting that they might become owners of the fact that we are expected to have talks and negotiations on the legal fate of that property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67013	The sixth is MP Pero Ćosic, who also asks the question of vice-presidents of the government, economy minister, entrepreneurship and craftsman Martini Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67014	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Government revised the list of companies of strategic and special interest for the Republic of Croatia and among 11 companies that were removed from that list two weeks ago, and the Slavonian-Brodic company Đaković group, so here as a parliamentary representative coming from Brod-Posavina County, it is my duty to ask me what further plans are yours, or what further plans of the Croatian Government are related to that group, because here there is a great public interest for the subject of both the ship and the wider public and there is one concern that the Croatian government will no longer care about such a significant company for our county and I will remind you that Đuro Đakovic has one almost hundred-year tradition of metal-processing activity, that it currently employs about 900 workers and is one significant economic county. Here is unfortunately the poor management of the company found itself in serious trouble and today definitely does not go in the right direction, we know that the state currently owns 38% of the shares, so it is not the majority owner of this company but here, because of the importance for our county, because of the work of the specific production that this company has, it is military production, because of the territorial speaking position, the company is located in Slavonia, and we know that this government is paying special attention to Slavonia. I think that further efforts should be made to help this company, so that it does not lose its jobs and to help in some further revitalisation, so here on behalf of our citizens and on my personal behalf, here I will ask you to explain a little bit what the plans of the Croatian Government are regarding the business of the Djuro Djakovic group.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67015	Vice President Dalic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67016	Dear Mr. Cosic, what you would like to point out as a general framework of your response is that the way in which the government manages ownership, the attention it pays to the stakes in the companies it has, is not related to any lists or classification in any regulation. I think you can see from all examples and overall government work that in all its decisions and activities it manages economic well-being both in the Republic of Croatia and in the entire economy. So compared to Djuru Djakovic, I think the fact that Djuro Djakovic is on the list or not in this case is not crucial. The government also respects and understands the importance of Đura Djakovic in the context of the processing industry, in the context of the overall importance of the processing industry in Croatia and of course we understand the importance of Đura Đakovic for Slavonski Brod. What is a fact, however, is as you yourself pointed out that Djuro Djakovic is currently privatised and restructured over the years in one of the most uncompromising economic positions on the one hand and the result of all the processes in recent years, including the way in which Đuro Djakovic's concert or group has been privatised and restructured over the years, and on the other hand, the difficulties that Djuro Djakovic faces in seeking his position on the market, given that on the one hand Đuro Djakovic operates in the area of the defence industry and on the other hand in the area of means of transport, he specifically produces wagons. Therefore, the new administration has very clear instructions through the supervisory board from the state as shareholders that there should be the greatest efforts in further activities to seek a potential strategic partner, that efforts should be made to expand the market and expand the quality of the activities it deals with, the expansion of the number of customers, there are some things that we do not assess positive because I think that the circle of customers and the circle of the partners of Đura Djakovic has been reduced over the past period and should also, so the third tasks of the management should also be done and taken all measures to reduce costs, restructuring and overall increase the performance of the company as a whole. So what she would say in the conclusion, of course, is that the state to which the shareholder is, which is 38%, expecting the active role of supporting other shareholders because, of course, stockholders and ownership includes responsibility, and then that means the responsibility of other shareholders to support all activities to strengthen production, to strengthen and increase the number of partners and customers as well as activities in the search for a strategic partner as it has so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67017	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67018	I thank the esteemed vice president for this response, and here I am pleased that you have expressed the willingness of this government to help this company get out of these difficult problems. We know the situation in this company well, and we all know that just taking it off this list won't change the situation much worse or better. The situation for the better can certainly only change the professional and quality management of this company, because we are taught by the experience that when the company was on the list of strategic societies, there was not too much attention given to one quality management and there were these difficult problems. Of course, this download may somehow help, as more attention has emerged to the company both in the local environment and in the government. And I am sure that this government will do everything to protect its property, but everyone will also save jobs because losing jobs is no option for the workers of Đura Djakovic and our citizens because it is ultimately an additional cost for the state, going to the bureau. And I certainly welcome your engagement and I am sure Đuro Đaković can find jobs as in this domestic, to say industry and maintenance and construction, to these new projects that Croatia is going to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67019	Thank you. Let's go to question seven. Dear counterpart Davor Bernardic questions Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67020	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, respected ministers. I'm going to ask Mr. Plenkovic one question. Mr. Plenkovic, where's the money? Where's the money? Where's the exaggerator? Where's the Ministry of Love? If John Oliver on HBO can look at Donald Trump in an extremely hilarious, constructive and satirical way, why can't the Facebook page "Di is Money?" that can't continue to work in Croatia? Satire in Croatian society must be the one that strengthens, so with laughter and satir we grow. The Facebook page "Di is Money?" was followed by over 300 thousand people in Croatia. And I followed her, and I laughed when they were satirical towards me. The government must not in any way ban satire in Croatia, push satire, choke satire and ban the Facebook page "Di is Money"? And so I ask you what you will do, to prevent satirisation in Croatia and to return the Facebook page "Di is Money"?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67021	Prime Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67022	Dear Representative Bernardic, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I welcome you to the beginning of the new session of the Croatian Parliament. As far as your question is concerned, I don't know if he is the fruit of a team of buildings or one major analytical approach to numerous problems facing Croatian society, including the Government. But as for satire, humor, irony, the possibility that anyone who wants to follow phenomena in Croatian society in this way is expressing it in the media, in the newspapers, on social networks, I am absolutely for it. I am a great supporter of the humorous approach to politics, any other aspect of Croatian society. You've recently had one of the three founders of Feral Lucic who died, who, during that former regime, knew how to follow social processes in a funny way. And then, as a high school student, I read the "Sunday Dalmatia" subheading. I believe that some of your colleagues, you were a little younger then, so you didn't. So, as far as the government is concerned, as far as all of us who are open and critical are concerned, we absolutely support all freedom in a funny way. As far as your adjudication to censorship is concerned, the film as far as I'm aware of Croatian radiotelevision is absolutely independent in choosing its programme. Maybe that's part of your approach to humor, this smile. However, it seems to me that the film is being shown. Whoever wants to watch it, watch it. Anyone who does not consider it artistically ideal can express their position, but I want to repeat that there is no censorship in Croatia. In Croatia everyone has the opportunity to say what they want, what they think according to our legal regulations and in accordance with their responsibilities. Of course, this does not mean that in modern times communication and technology should be allowed to speak hate, on the contrary. I, even as a representative in the European Parliament nearly four years ago, organised a conference on the subject of hate speech on the Internet, and I believe that this is a serious social problem, a problem that affects many, a problem that has been kidnapped by control because it is not sufficiently regulated and a problem that I believe in common consensus can also be prevented and solved in a certain way. But to do a clear distinction between what is humor and what is illegal, which offends, which essentially poisons society and relationships between people, especially when it is done on social networks in a way that those who do so hide their identity. That's not good. And I think that against this joint effort, we can be corrective to those negative phenomena, which gives us digital time, digital society and means of communication, which do not always follow the aspect of responsibility, anyone who engages in public communication. And as far as the government is concerned, we're going to go out there with legal proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67023	Thank you. Here's a comment, MP Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67024	Well, first of all, my question is, did page Di's money encourage hate speech? She didn't encourage it. And you can't underline hate speech to satire and with the law you're going with, banning hate speech, essentially censor social networks, Facebook content. I'll remind you, at 6 months last year, the young men were arrested because they wrote about you uglyly. In summer, the HRT Supervisory Board was removed because it warned of corruption at HRT. A few days ago, your minister, a minister from your government, tried to create a HRT programme, a ban and an attempt to ban the production of the film, the Ministry of Love, the ban on satire. Now you're going with a bill of law, like you, against hate speech to ban and censor Facebook content and social networks. You're not gonna get away with that. In 2016 you came, you became Prime Minister, it was 2017, now in 2018 there is not a single result of your work. Meanwhile, only during this topic, 6 people left Croatia, and 7 get on the bus. And you because you don't have a result, now you're trying in every way, controlling the media and imposing censorship on social networks. Croatia is now, already well, in censorship, Croatia has become a land of Facebook news and you take people what is left, and that is freedom of speech and public words. And be sure, we won't let you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67025	8th is MP Josip Križanic and he asks the question of Agriculture Minister Tomislav Tolusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67026	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister with ministers, colleagues and colleagues. My question goes to Minister Tolusic, the updated question, to the question of Mr. Sagar, but with new moments and life problems of the village. So, in the second reading, the new Agricultural Land Act, one of the most important laws in agriculture, which is generally a good bill of law. Most of them, the minister has changed it so far and boasted that their case so far is the best. We witnessed this, not only did we never know exactly how much land we owned, but the land was not processed, and the incentives were taken and no lease was paid. I'm curious, Minister, if we're going to put an end to this mess. It's a very important question, for our agriculture and for our village. Furthermore, are we finally going to solve the problem, the lack of land of cattle? Not only for the production of livestock food, but also for the disposal of fertilisers, but in accordance with the nitrate directive. Namely, our cattlemen did not receive quotas for the production of subsidized electricity from biogas plants. That's what some other speculatory firms and wind power plants got. I also ask the Croatian government to be involved in solving this problem. Furthermore, should we continue this law to solve the problem of young farmers, so that our young people do not have to move out of our areas and seek their happiness in the white world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67027	Here you are, Minister Tolusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67028	Thank you, Mr. Križanić, for asking. I agree absolutely with you, and probably with the entire Parliament, that the issue of agricultural land is actually a crucial issue, for the survival of our farmers, our family farms, for life in rural areas and for the administrative stay and for our young people in these rural areas. I think this is, don't hold me 100% to my word, but the six laws that come as a new law in the parliamentary procedure. Every minister, I think he's doing the best part of his job. I expect this law will, however, make some serious changes in the distribution and management of agricultural land. So far, we've managed the waters relatively well, the forests, the land we haven't managed in any way. And total chaos is in the system of agricultural land management. We don't know who works, how much does it work, someone wrote in the economic program that he's a cattleman, 10 years is a warlord, which is why he got agricultural land, someone pays, someone doesn't pay, someone pays 300 kn, someone pays 1300 kn, someone pays 2300. Ugl. A system that's suited to someone, but actually, the vast majority isn't. The result is what we have today, that we actually have a drop in agricultural production, with never greater incentives, and that is something that the Croatian government wants to prevent and will prevent and will certainly contribute to the new Agricultural Land Act. This is the first law, out of all the laws so far, of all the changes to the law so far, that give direct advantage to the family farms, which we talk about so much, so much to the heavens, and we have never decided by law that they have priority in the assignment of agricultural land. We're returning the domicile. It is logical and it is normal that in the area, I don't know, some municipalities in Slavonia, in Lica and in Gorski Kotar, land is managed by or, agricultural... Land, a farmer living in the area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the first time in the law, saying the first priority left to cattlemen who lack countries. So far we've had all kinds of different things, I'd say, illegal, or illegal ways of getting cattlemen to the ground, and in the end they never met the quotas they needed. With this law, we decide that every cattleman, not only about the state, but generally about agricultural land, has the possibility of getting one hectare on one condition of the throat. For the first time, of all laws, very high priority are our young farmers. For the first time, they have a chance, girls and boys, so our young ones up to 40 years old to get agricultural land. Of course, we're taking care of the tenants so far. We've got to make sure that someone's been working the country for 20 years. Or 10 and that one should be won, but not by those who didn't work or who worked in a bad way. When we talk about payments or not paying agricultural land, there I also agree that we have to end it, it's crazy that we have a situation that someone doesn't pay the land and gets incentives, that someone on paper bought agricultural land, paid one or two wars to the state and the rest isn't, is being carried out in the garter that it's his. With this law, for example. All lease contracts will be... and become executive papers, no arguments, if you haven't paid, you're going out of the country, if you don't apply an economic programme according to what you've prescribed, you're losing your right to the ground, you're losing your right to incentives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law is not the only law that will solve problems in Croatian agriculture but is certainly one of the most important and I believe you will see the shifts very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67029	Here's my colleague Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67030	If we do all this, I'll be the luckiest man in the world and you'll probably be one of the best ministers at all, if we do everything you just said today. Then we, my dear Minister, have done our job and you can laugh as you please. Then we'll have a rich cattleman, I don't know why people are afraid of rich cattlemen and rich peasants in a landslide. We need this very much, and then our young people will not move out of rural areas, but will stay here and finally the agriculture of this country will be given the opportunity to feed the nation to quality Croatian products. That's what we all stand for together. And finally your products from the shelves of our trade chains will push out the bad boful goods that come from the side but not only from our trade chains but from the tourist destinations from the tables in Dalmatia. And we will finally offer sufficient amounts of original Croatian food if all this is accomplished together, as you have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67031	Let's move on. The next is representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic, who is asking the question of Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67032	Thank you. Dear Minister, as you know, a proposal of the so-called so-called so-called Minister was presented on 22 April 2016. curicula, more specifically curicula or Croatian history manual. Immediately after this document was published, the Croatian Historical Scientific Community until then was irrevocably excluded from the so-called curricular reforms, a proposal for a teaching curricula of history reasoned and inconclusively secluded and marked scientific, methodologically content and value-failing, impregnable and irreparable. In the meantime, respected ministers as we read you pulled out of the naphthaline and the members of the ideologically interesting key of the decreed Jokic-Budakov expert working group for history and invited them to continue their work and some of these members are now sneaking around the schools with the help of you loyal officials, presenting the impunity from the curricula of history by spreading fear and interference among teachers. My question is, since you have unlawfully called for the continuation of the work of members of Jokic-Budakov's section of history, although there is no longer a body that has defined them, when you will call or tender for a new working group for history to continue, which will draw up a completely new curricula or manual in question, which will be entered by historians from the Croatian system of science and competent teachers to whom the SDP and HNS government is now and in this Government and Commissioner Jokić-Budak has disabled participation in the root educational reform that the Independent for Croatia supports but on a completely new health and national health foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67033	Comrade Hasanbegovic, thank you. Thank you. Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67034	Thank you very much. I have to admit that the question is a bit unusual, I'll try to answer it justifiably. First of all, I'd like to invite you to consider a formulation when several hundred experts, professors, teachers, who worked on making different documents, label them in the way you label them. I think that all of them, the few hundreds who worked on it, and didn't agree with any option, are really in line with their professional, scientific and other competences and personal integrity, working on it if they deserve nothing else to thank them for it. As for the full curricula reform, what was done, which was done a few years ago, a professional debate passed, a public debate passed, the remarks were answered. All these documents are also available on both the reform websites and the ministry's pages. And you can see it and it can really appear if there are any questions left that you're talking about right now. As far as further implementation is concerned, what is important pointed out and what we get support about is that for the next school year, it means 2018, 2019 goes to experimental implementation in a number of schools, 60 to 80 schools. For this we wrote the project, we received the European Commission's funding and we also sent the curriculas that were in public debate to review. I'll look back on the curricula of history that you've just mentioned. This course of history was delivered to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts last year and we also requested an international methodical review. Why did we send HAZ? Well, among other things, because the HAZU's tasks say that here I will now try to interpret it, so I think that's point 3 that says that the proposals, that the HAZU gives both proposals and opinions in areas of particular importance to the Republic of Croatia. I believe that the curricula of history is of particular importance for Croatia and because this Croatian Parliament has also brought a declaration I think in 2000 about the Homeland War, where it is pointed out that the Republic of Croatia has led a fair, legitimate, defensive, liberating war and it is certainly the content and curricula of history as everyone can also check in that part. Another thing is methodical processing, an approach based on learning outcomes that gives us a step forward that our children learn in a different way, that they do not rouse the facts, that they have a problem approach and that they develop a whole integrity. Of course, the issues of national interest, meaning these curricula which are of the national interest of Croatian language and history, means that we will include and include the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts all the time as the top body dealing with this problem in Croatia. Of course, I would point out here as a minister, among other things, that the second question of the freedom of scientific research and the autonomy of scientists who are also constitutionally guaranteed, but official curricula entering Croatian schools must be such that, as I pointed out, they are in line with these declarations especially about the Homeland War which, there were a lot of objections. I guarantee you it's that way in a curricula embedded and that it will be at school in that way and presented. However, we also need to know that everything that enters Croatian schools must pass the procedure prescribed by law, and I say I am convinced that this experimental introduction in these 60, 70 schools will also come up with concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67035	Thank you, Minister. Thank you. Here's a comment, colleague Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67036	You haven't answered my specific question. So, you mention the review that was requested by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. So you have sent a curricula to review the same institution whose Scientific Council has already published a review of all curriculous documents, and whose summary in two keywords for all items is not only in the history of an inexhaustible and incorrigible teacher's dictionary sits one. In other words, whoever you send to the review outside the confidence circle, so Jokic, Budak you're talking about hundreds of scientists. I'm talking about an expert working group for history in which the number and letters of scientists are two. One has already mentioned the SDP exhibit and the expert on medieval history, Professor Budak, and another scientist, second, is not a respected Methodist who is precisely on the news we receive from school, otherwise known for the ideological activation of school now. No one knows in what capacity. So, since you haven't answered me, and respecting your Brussels-based information meta language that I don't understand, so for documentary and archival reasons, please write a reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67037	Written. Let's go to the tenth question. Honorable representative Ivan Šipic appoints him as the Minister of Environment and Energy, Mr Tomislav Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67038	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. During the 2014 programming period, in the framework of the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion of the Republic of Croatia, 1.05 billion euros are available for projects to improve the public water supply, draining and treatment of waste water. Given the large number of projects, the water economy is the leading sector in launching investments that will contribute to the growth of the economy and generally raise the standard of living of Croatian citizens. We know that many cities and municipalities have projects and are preparing projects to make use of EU funds is a priority for all, and there lies among other things the creation of better living conditions throughout the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, my question to you esteemed ministers that are also being taken up in your ministry for the preparation and implementation of water-economic projects which are known to be very co-financed by European means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67039	I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Tomislav Djoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67040	First of all, thank you very much, Mr. Šipic, for this matter, with the warmest greetings of all MPs and MPs. For short introduction only, so according to the data available at this time, the connection to the public discharge system in the Republic of Croatia is 47%. On the other hand, the connection to the water supply system is 85%, which says that in the past 27 years we have not been in all parts of the Republic of Croatia and for all Croatian residents we have allowed these basic needs of life. So, connections to sewers and water supply systems. Croatian waters in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Energy have held documentation in recent months and in 2018 we are planning a large set of public procurement, primarily in the context of the construction of agglomeration systems. Given the fact that our activity on this issue has started and more agglomeration contracts have been signed over the past few months, and in 2018, according to the plan of Croatian Waters, there should be a year of signing 41 projects. What does this mean specifically for the population of the Republic of Croatia? So, out of 41 agglomeration projects, it should bring over 2100km of new sewerage to the Republic of Croatia, something below 400km of reconstruction or construction of a water network. When we talk about sewerage systems or drain systems, we talk about around 90 000 connections, when we talk about water supply systems, about 9 200 connections, in addition to these infrastructure projects related to the construction of the water supply network, or the sewerage network, we also talk about 56 devices or wastewater purifiers, which is also one of the objectives of this Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. The Croatian Waters system is dedicated to both these projects and flood defence projects, so 2018 should be the year in which we start public procurement processes for 160km of water supply. When we talk about cooperation between the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Ministry of Agriculture, 2018 should be the year in which public procurement processes for some 3,800 hectares of new irrigated areas in the Republic of Croatia will start. So the activities are I'd say, very intense. In 2018, we expect that, based on plans or plans for the public procurement of Croatian waters, projects worth total VAT, so up to 15 billion kuna, which ultimately leads to the withdrawal of around 8.5 billion kuna EU funds in the coming years when the implementation of these projects is under way. I believe that the units of local self-government or municipal societies that participate in these procurements and, in fact, investors, co-financers, will do their part of the job adequately, we are on the ground almost every day and in this context I believe that 2018 will be the year of investment in Croatian Waters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67041	I'd like a commentary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67042	Thank you very much for this exhaustive response, I come from Cetino region where I am familiar with this problem, cities and municipalities are preparing for these projects and these projects, cities such as Trilj, Sinj, the municipalities of Island, Croatia, Dicmo, preparing projects like this and in this year, so we are now in the phase of solving property-legal relations, ideas are over, at a high level almost all projects. So, we don't view these projects as just infrastructure, naked infrastructure, but it's one ring relationship, just calling out public procurement, just withdrawing funds, just spending these funds accumulated and further developing this area, which means we believe that these investments will not only in our Dalmatian hinterland, but in all parts of Beautiful Ours will bring good and what we call other sectors and this is an increase in production and employment, but not just that, but a concrete life, will live and restaurants, will live and lodgings, hotels, etc. Because we know when it comes to large acquisitions that both large institutions and large companies that come into each space, they revive that space not only as a site but also as a concrete life. So stick to this and we're more interested in these topics than in satirical topics, here's thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67043	Let's move on. The 11th question, dear colleague Drazen Barisic, raises the question to the Minister of Management Lovri Kuštevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67044	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, Vice-Presidents, ministers and ministers, fellow MPs. Here's a question for the respected Minister Kustevic, the minister of administration, who advocates strengthening municipalities, cities and counties through functional and fiscal decentralisation. Are you familiar with the legal restriction of employment in units of local, regional (regional) self-government when we talk about EU projects aimed at strengthening and developing our municipalities, cities and counties through, of course, projects financed from EU sources and how you think to solve this burning issue that makes it significantly difficult to withdraw EU projects because, as you know, under the current law, we are able to employ only 6 months and an additional 6 months which makes it insufficient for the organisation and strengthening of stronger administrative and other capacities so that we can prepare as high quality and faster to absorb EU funds from the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67045	Thank you, please, Minister of Administration Kuštević for his answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67046	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues of ministers and ministers, parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives. So, Mr. Representative, you said well that this government, the Ministry of Administration and I personally understand that the Republic of Croatia is as strong as the least village, the place, the municipalities and the city in our homeland, and that is why we are doing all these projects to strengthen our local self-government units, so that they can create the necessary preconditions and help the Government of the Republic of Croatia to develop equally in all its parts. Not one government like this has established good co-operation with the community of counties, associations of municipalities and cities, we have frequent meetings and at these meetings, we listen to problems that burden our units of local and regional self-government and, of course, we offer solutions to these problems. This is thanks to the government's large engagement, co-workers and colleagues, the RS government has made a number of projects that are now aimed at local and regional self-government units and EU funds are also being financed. At these meetings we've just heard about this problem that you're talking about today. In fact, we have a series of projects that last two, three or more years, i.e. They are financed entirely from European funds, and our municipalities and cities are unable to employ people for a certain period of time, regardless of what they are financed from EU funds during the project's duration, are already limited to six plus six months. Of course we put that on the table in the government of the Republic of Croatia, faced that problem, we found a solution. Here at last session of the Government, the Government adopted a regulation supplementing the Law on Officials and Landowners in local and regional (regional) self-government, and it was with this regulation that we allowed local and regional self-government to employ for a certain period of time and for more than six plus six months for the duration of the whole project. Thanks to this regulation we will enable here to implement a series of projects not only this good e-request project that will employ over 4,000 women worth more than 400 million kuna but also employment projects in our kindergartens so that here they can work on two-way, large municipal, infrastructure projects. I note, in this case, it's not about raising the administration. Therefore, these employees will be employed under the provisions of the Labour Act, they will be subject to general labour regulations, and they are not considered civil servants and tenants. So, one good project, a good regulation that will allow for better and better quality realisation and withdrawal of EU funds and the realisation of all these projects in our units of local and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67047	Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67048	I thank the respected ministers for a very concise and clear answer. I hope that the faster the rules apply and the more effective the work in attracting funds and, of course, the results that will come afterwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67049	Thank you. Let's go to question number 12. Dear counterpart Josip Djakic, the question is asked by Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Damir Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67050	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Vice-President and Vice-President, Minister and Minister. My question is like the President of the Parliament and announced it was addressed to the vice-president of the Croatian government and to Mr Krstic's defence minister. We had the opportunity to see that when you visited the Croatian military in Poland and Lithuania, you promoted the Croatian defence industry as well. That you also witnessed the successes of the Croatian Army in the exercises held in those countries was also impressive to see. Also recently, the government sent amendments to the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces to the Parliament. What these laws mean for Croatian soldiers, and what promotion of our industry brings for the Croatian economy. Did your visit receive any results for the defence industry and what are the effects?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67051	Mr. Prime Minister, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67052	President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. A fellow Djakic said I was visiting our soldiers in Poland and Lithuania between Christmas and the new year. It is very important during the holidays to visit Croatian soldiers that they know that we are here, to take care of them. And clearly in all these visits, what is important is that I promote my colleagues in the Ministry of Defence industry. The Croatian defence industry is both developed and internationally recognised. And as you know, we have also decided that Croatian soldiers should be fully equipped and armed with Croatian equipment and weapons. Last year precisely at 9 months, our soldier went to Afghanistan fully equipped, armed and Croatian with rifles and Croatian equipment. Our soldiers are also armed in missions both in Poland and Lithuania. As far as Poland is concerned, we have specifically discussed improving defence cooperation in many areas clearly in the defence industry priority. I have connected several Croatian companies with Polish companies and I believe that this will result in certain activities. As far as Lithuania is concerned, we promoted the Croatian helmet and in Lithuania, the international competition is now very much related to this activity. You saw that last year we also held a conference of the Croatian defence industry as an export brand with the aim of promoting all top defence products. And I think we have one synergy between the Croatian soldiers and the Croatian defence industry and this will continue in the future. Of course, equipment is important, but man is the most important and he is the most valuable part of the defence system and he is also the gravity center and development of the Armed Forces upgrade. And that is why we have proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Defence, the Service Act with the aim of just focusing on man, Croatian soldiers, the victorious Croatian army to focus on returning, that is, improving the standards of soldiers officers and officers, and this is exactly the kind of change in the law that goes in this direction. We will return to our soldiers that gradually all the material rights that have been taken away from them, and by this law we repay compensation for field work, because every army in the world when it is on the ground it is paid extra. I think the Croatian soldier deserves to be compensated for field work. Then there's the duty fee, then the guard's fee, everything that matters. What's very important is that we're leaving the concept of a traveling army. We have made a new operational schedule, we want to bring our soldier closer to the family, because without the support of the family there is no strong and motivated Croatian soldier. The Croatian soldier is a brand in Croatia, and in the world and our task is to continue to mean that the brand of Croatian soldiers we have and some other additions to the law in the focus of exactly the security of soldiers and I think that with this law we will specifically, so far the soldier has had 3 contracts at 4, 5, and 6 years, now we will have 2 contracts, the first contract for 2 years, I think it is enough time for the soldier to assess and then the contract up to 45 years so that the soldier can plan and the family and that he can be sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67053	Thank you, Minister. Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67054	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you Deputy Prime Minister for the concrete response and for the care and effort you make to ensure that the Croatian soldier is well equipped, so that the Croatian industry through 28 companies will work and contribute to the development of the economy, as well as a well-equipped soldier, surely the most original soldier as shown in all previous competition exercises on the ground with the strongest armies of the world they have achieved the most significant results thanks to the government of the Republic of Croatia and you personally, care and care for Croatian soldiers who are certainly the heiress of the victorious Croatian army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67055	Let's move on. Dear colleague Stevo Culej asks the question of Croatian Defence Minister Tommy Bear, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67056	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, I ask the question at the Croatian Defence Ministry's initiative, the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded on the digitisation of archive material from the Homeland War at a session in Knin on 4 August 2017, the question is, at what stage is the digitalisation project of archive material from the Homeland War?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67057	Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67058	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The implementation of the project digitisation of archive materials from the Homeland War began in 2017 and was carried out over a period of 4 years. The total allocation is more than 18 million kuna and 85% is co-financed by the European Social Fund. The project will facilitate the implementation of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families as digitalised materials will speed up the procedure for regulating the status and exercise of the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families by virtue of the law. In addition to increasing the effectiveness of the state administration body in supporting defenders and victims of the Homeland War in the exercise of rights, the project contributes to the preservation of extremely important archive material from the Homeland War that threatens physical decay. With the purpose of coordinating and conducting the tasks of digitising archive materials from the Homeland War, as you yourself stated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it concluded from the digitisation of archival material from the Homeland War, it also defined partnership with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, which signed an agreement on cooperation on the project on 2 January 2018. Since the implementation of the project, with the above-mentioned regulatory framework for its implementation, the Ministry has launched all procedures to ensure security and other preconditions for the start of work on locations in Zagreb, Karlovac and Split, which are within the competence of the project partners. Due to the sensitivity and classification of certain parts of the cities in operational work on the project, 11 relevant bodies and institutions are involved. In 2018 project activities include the preparation and adaptation of areas where digitisation activities will be carried out, field work on the collection of archive materials from the Homeland War and the purchase of information and archival equipment. All the conditions for the full implementation of the project will be met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67059	Here you go, colleague Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67060	Dear Minister, I thank you for your concern for the Croatian defender, for the dignity of the Homeland War as well as the historical truth, and I hope that this project will be brought to life as well as all that you have captured to do and that it will not end as one of the projects that you have abolished with the right that was called the Defence Register in the Homeland War which has received very great inconvenience to Croatian defenders and the availability of their personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67061	The fourteenth question, Representative Sinisha Hajdas Doncic asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67062	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Your Honor, Prime Minister, I'll apologize first for not asking you a question in advance because I didn't get an e-mail, so I'm going to ask you. So as I ask the question, so 10 Croatian citizens have already left Croatia, 11 are on the bus, but since I am going to conclude that your first part of the mandate is marked by a macro, mezo and micro-harvestment at all three levels, so if we go to that macro level, we can talk about the arrests in Agrokor for which you took responsibility, we had a case at the mezo level in Plitvices, and at the micro level today we have received a series of technical data from Mr Kuševic, these 327 HDZ members who will be employed in the state administration, and I am interested, so a very clear answer, so who will decide on them? Is the HDZ centre in Zagreb or the HDZ county organisation on the ground? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67063	The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67064	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Highash Doncic, for your question. As for the issues of departure from Croatia, related to the issue of demographic revitalisation and reconstruction. There are two aspects. One aspect is that we are a member of the EU and, except in 5 countries, where extensions are transitional periods to limit access to the labour market, our citizens have the right to do so and some use it. Using the right to freedom of movement or mobility is an option. Of course, neither you nor we would be pleased to see it become a trend of departure, the most qualitative, most capable people from Croatia, and in a way that it is not two-way. The measures we are taking, and for demographic renewal, and here, tax reform is one of these, birth benefits, parental benefits, child deductions, a new measure that will apply to child allowance from the first April, co-financing of housing loans, are one package of efforts, for demographic revitalisation of the country. Which also means the possibility for families to find a job and to build their families in Croatia in a decent way. The growth of the economy is one of these roof aspects, which must ensure that our people are able to stay in the country and live here in quality. The Minister of Finance talked about it a little bit more. And I think these economic trends, which have been confirmed in 2017 not only by the general government surplus, not only by the rise in credit ratings, from the most successful tourist season in history, from increasing employment, reducing unemployment, the measures we take in active employment measures, and especially by reducing youth employment and involving in the labour market, those who are long-term unemployed or harder to find jobs. Such as women, older age or persons with disabilities or long-term unemployed. These are all measures that have won results. You refer, to the employment that is necessary in certain segments of the state administration, for which there are competitions from competent authorities, ministries. You can use the parliamentary opportunity, to alludate that all of these are HDZ members, I am sure that absolutely all 327 of them were spoken of by Minister Kuščević 100% of the members of one party, because there is no other way we could get a job, as you imply. Our goal is for the state administration, to be professional, to be effective, to be at the service of the citizens, for those who work there to come by the basis of their qualifications, their ability to compete, in a transparent manner. And that's what we're going to stick to, and that's what I stand behind personally, behind which the government stands. Your comments are welcome, however, as far as the circus is concerned, the second time we'll send it to you, so you can call, too, to get a little bit better prepared, that's no problem. Here, Arsen laughs, he knows how to do it when you're in power or when you're not. But I think it's something that's good, right Arsen, see how he laughs, he reads, Sunday Dalmatia, when I do at that time, so he likes to be funny, like his party leader. As for that, colleague Hajdash Doncic, it is important that the Government uses this opportunity once every three months for everything that is relevant, not just for funny occasions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67065	Thank you. Comrade Hajdash Doncic, comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67066	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm not happy with the answer, because you haven't answered my question, who's going to make the decision, but from your answer, or your attempt to answer, I've realized in fact what your economic views are, so, let's say, the schools of economic thought you belong to, where you think only the defeat of GDP will lead to those who have the lowest wages, that they will live better, but they won't. It may say so in some European bureaucratic textbooks. But, as for the economy and the way in which the problems of Croatian citizens should be addressed, it will certainly not happen, only with the fact that we are all happy, and we say the agency has increased rating, GDP is growing, so I am interested, when will the citizens of the Republic of Croatia feel that they will get 200, 300 kuna more. That way, politics will never feel it. So that's one, I'm going to say such a typical bureaucratic answer, and wherever I am, I asked you a question, how are you going to prepare the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 or '23? where, according to all the studies, 50-60 thousand jobs will be compromised by the introduction of new technologies, block... technology, robotics, automation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Are you going to keep your jobs, or are you going to prepare for 2022, 2023? But I didn't ask you that difficult question, because you should really ask it in advance. But I expect actually one written answer from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67067	Let's go to question number 15. Representative Kreso Beljak, the question is raised by Minister of State Property Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67068	Thank you very much, Your Honor, President-in-Office of the Parliament, I would like to direct the question to Mr Goran Maric, Minister, in my opinion, of the unnecessary ministry, but that is another topic. I'm going to open up a potential big, big affair, which is rolling behind the hill, which could cost the Republic of Croatia and the state budget several billion kunas. It's about a former complex, a popular... in Samobor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a complex that's '70. And the '80s. In the year he worked large capacities and employed nearly 200 people in the season and beyond the season. Hotel with 100 and more rooms, i.e., beds, open, closed pools, which was in the early 1990s. Mr. came into problems known as privatisation and conversion in Croatian way. All that stuff was standing there somewhere until 2007, when the real problems started. So if a person expected that the problems ended in privatisation, that is, that is, no more problems begin. They begin in a way that in 2007 the Post office bank owned by the Republic of Croatia lends a loan of 33 million kuna to a private entrepreneur who intends to build aqua park Fantasy Land. In 2012, five years after the Center of the Bank, I also don't think I'm sure, but we're mostly owned by the Republic of Croatia gives an additional loan of 20 million and 10000 kuna to the same firm, or a group of companies that intend to launch the project in their words of 250 million euros. All this stuff falls into the water, money disappears, and we're talking about an affair that then arises and ends with arrests. The affair is called an ATM, you'll probably remember. And that wouldn't be the end of the story. The hotel complex, the pool, the indoors, the outdoors is torn to the ground. So there's nothing there. A traveller who comes there can't know The question to Mr. Maric is, can he explain to me what stage of the Schmidten affair, or Fantasy Land? [[/Adversity President: A fellow Whiteman's time is up. Question please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67069	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67070	Agent Beljak, thank you very much for asking. It is ungrateful to speak of this matter except in principle and in fact because in this case, there are a number of judicial proceedings and criminal proceedings. So I'm only going to stay in fact, and I've known this area since I was a student on my way to bathe. But I have to correct you every time someone doesn't know enough, then the wrong qualification says. So you two have said about the unnecessaryness of one ministry and about the Center of the Bank that it is owned by the Republic of Croatia. The centre of the bank has never been owned by the Republic of Croatia since its establishment in 100% private ownership. In 2007, the Croatian Privatisation Fund signed a contract with Fantasy project d.o.o. establishing a right to build. The contract had an annex contract in 2008, and the contract resulted in an obligation to pay a fee that was not paid. There are lots of disputes, one is slow to collect that fee. This fee was an obligation to pay the CERRP. The CERP had not agreed for two years to sign a parcel elaborate. This is why Fantasy project and other related companies have sued CERRP and the Republic of Croatia, but have also sued Croatia's postal bank. The Croatian Post Bank has sued Fantasy project and related societies. They're also suing for more than a billion kunas. And these proceedings still take place not only on appeal claims for damages, but also on criminal proceedings. While these proceedings do not have an epilogue, it is impossible to know the fate of this area in the area of Samobor, but we will tell you personally and personally I will describe in detail with all the facts of this case in a very short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67071	Here's a colleague of Whitey's comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67072	I apologize for the Center of the Bank, but good. The epilogue of the story is that the controversial entrepreneur writes about it in the media looking, suing the state and asking for 3 billion kuna fees, and the state went into the project so that the state bank, the Post Office, gave the state bank a loan to a private entrepreneur with a guarantee called the right to build. To foreign, or state and land owned by the city of Samobor. When you go to take a loan for the house you have to put the house under mortgage, etc. etc. When you go to get a loan for the car, you have to give some kind of guarantee. The state bank gave people 33 million kunas, and at a guarantee called the right to build, that is, a piece of paper. It would be interesting to ask about it, and I will suggest before you write an answer to ask Mr. Jose Sarac who participated in it. Here reminded me of a colleague, that's his predecessor, so I remembered him where this gentleman today, what he's doing, he'd know a lot about it. Mr. Duvnjak, who was the director of the agency as already called ZERP, already knows that dear God, who in two years refused to sign a parcel design. And it would be good to ask Mr. Kapulico, which is also a question for Mr. Plenkovic who can participate there because Mr. Kapulica is allegedly his adviser whether in a party or in a government who knows too much about it. I gave the instructions. I pray written answers, and after that we will see further because people ask me an affair of 3 billion kunas is not negligible for Croatia, let alone for Samobor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67073	The next question is the issue of Representative Peja Grbin and is addressed to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67074	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. My question, unfortunately, concerns the situation in the Pulmonary Oil and its related companies. Last session, the government made a decision on guarantees, but as we all know, the decision depends on the previous consent of the European Commission. Meanwhile, the unions announced a strike in Ulnik. The worker's representative resigned to the post on the Supervisory Board and the situation we have today is very serious. So I ask you and I ask you very specific and very clear answers. In which status is the request made by the Government to the European Commission, or within what time period, if you can answer this, we can expect the Commission to respond and to give consent to guarantees. Furthermore, what are the further actions that the Government plans to take on this issue and what may be the most important which is Plan B, or what if we do not get the consent of the European Commission to these guarantees? I followed the statements made by the esteemed Mr. Maric and he is Mr. Maric this morning, and he said on a show this morning it was hard to think about an alternative to guarantees. However, the answer that it is difficult to think about the alternative is not an answer that is acceptable to workers, not the people of Istria or Pula, because I believe that none of us are meant to be in the Uljannik, as well as in some other shipyards to shut down production and to host another marina in their place, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67075	I'm asking the Prime Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67076	Thank you, well-respected representative Grbin, for the question which is also related to your electoral unit, and therefore I find it legitimate and good and useful at this time for the public because there are no elements of satire but a concrete life for which the IDS representative and the Mayor of Pula, Mr Miletic, and for which the mayor of Istria County, who, given the connection between the Oljannik and the Third May, also stands for the Mayor of Rijeka and the Mayor of the Primorje-Gorski County. All of these are people who have legitimacy in this part of Croatia and who have repeatedly communicated with the government of the Republic of Croatia for the past 3 months, with the competent ministers, with the finance minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and the economy minister. Since, as you yourself know, in that previous decade with financial commitments, we have practically worked on a major process until this year, the complete process of restructuring of Croatian shipyards that are practically all of them, I am talking about those 6, or minus once the Queen was a society in difficulty and that for Croatian state budgets each year represented a significant and great burden when it comes to state support. Also, the current situation is primarily about the responsibility of the Oil Management, which is what we need to make very precise and clear. On the basis of all the information we have received and collected, the government has provided this guarantee for the possible lending of oil to the HPB and other banks, i.e. to financial institutions, according to a procedure that exists in accordance with the acquis, this process is also being conducted in the context of consultations with the European Commission. We are, of course, the competent economy ministry is in constant communication with the competent administration, we have given all the clarifications, this dialogue is on a daily basis and we will do everything possible to make these guarantees real. What is important, and this is primarily the plan to restructure the Oils and eventually find a strategic partner. As far as I know, the Uljanic administration has already had some talks about it, and it seems to me that the combination of both guarantees and strategic partners is something that can be, so sort of plan A and plan B are probably connected together. On our part, we will also take care of the Uljanic and the employees, follow the union messages spoken in public and the fact that the government has made such a decision by my deep conviction can be a clear message to you as a representative from Istria that we will do everything we can to keep our jobs in order for the oil that plays an important role in the restructuring of the Third Maya to be a sustainable shipyard and to continue with the business and jobs it has when all of them are combined with thousands of people in Pula and Rijeka. And I therefore expect the European Commission to deliver its opinion to us as soon as possible on the basis of all the data provided and to follow up on the implementation of the government's decision last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67077	Thank you. Comrade Radin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67078	Thank you. So, first of all, I have to say that I agree with you in one piece and that's the part where you say we can't deny the responsibility of the current administration, though. There will certainly have to be talks about how it happened for the current Uljanika administration to bring the shipyard into such a difficult situation. However, not denying responsibility to the current administration does not also mean that the government can wash its hands of responsibility. I've asked you a few questions, you've really given me partial answers, but the answers you've given me can't be completely satisfied. Of course I welcome the government's decision to give guarantees and it would be absolutely insane to say anything against it. However, there remains one question you did not answer in the same way that Minister Maric did not answer this morning, which is that it is an alternative. Because every serious entrepreneur and, above all, every serious government when such a large and extensive procedure has to think especially when it depends on the decision of a third party in this case by the European Commission, what if it does not happen. What is my desire and desire is the size of us pulegana, the Istrian is that the Oily One survives and that its visor remains an integral part of what we see every time we look at Pula. However, we need to work hard to do so. And that's why I'm asking you to do everything in your power and I want a firm guarantee that this government will not stand behind the idea that the Oljanik as a shipyard will shut down and turn into Marina. Given the scope of the questions I have asked you please supplement your answer by written means and I hope that you will need less of those Rules of Procedure... I'm sorry I overstepped my time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67079	The 17th issue of Honored Representative Goran Beus-Richembergh asks the health minister, excuse me, Health Minister Milan Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67080	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Professor Kujundzic, the question comes to you. On 21 December of last year, if I am not mistaken, the Government has reached one conclusion on your proposal, or a decision establishing a fund for particularly expensive medicines beyond the existing fund for expensive medicines that exists under the HZZ. The idea is that citizens collect their charity funds to which the government will pay as much as possible. Parents particularly severely ill children and representatives of health associations are bitter and disappointed with the proposal and its realization, so far it turns out that only a little less than 27 000 kuna has been paid, extremely insufficient for any intervention, the government has not yet paid anything. In the last two humanitarian public actions alone, citizens have collected about a million and 700,000 kuna for two sick girls, which proves that citizens do not trust the model you have inauguration. My question is, are you aware that this proposal and this model have actually started to introduce an inadmissible principle of merciful health in health care that needs to be solidarity and that the government that is responsible for ensuring all citizens have equal access to health care, is now giving up on it and introduces an elitist model as you have at the time expressed that the government has no money to treat all the sick. Is that what you're worried about? Are you concerned that citizens have no confidence in the proposal you made and that representatives of those most concerned are bitter because they feel that the system is non-transparent, that it is not known by which logic and by which criteria it will be chosen which patients will be treated from this fund paid funds for their treatment, it is not known at all which list, who is on it and whether they will allow all or only the selected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67081	Thank you. Minister Milan Kujundzic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67082	Thank you very much, Mr. Beus, and thank you very much for taking care of seriously ill children, or of severely ill patients. We are probably all aware that it is actually a challenge not to Croatia but to provide medicines for everyone worldwide mainly to provide the latest medicines. And on this trail, as difficult as it may be for us in Croatia and we all know, we listen every day about problems about financial problems, we manage to deal with both solidarity and availability and the quality of Croatian medicine. And indeed, in that sense, the government has remained on track this year. And this year, when two groups of patients are now talking about spinal muscle atrophy and neuroblastoma, the government again shows a marked sensitivity and rapid response especially if it wants to compare it with countries in the environment and even the richest, we in Croatia were at a very envious level. So, when it comes to spinal muscle atrophy and spinrasing, we are included before many rich countries in Europe and the world, where medical evidence is indicated, where there is evidence that such patients can expect a positive effect. And as for the specific question, I can tell you the following. It is only one form attached to the world, so we Croats didn't invent it, it's done by many countries in the world to try to ensure the availability of the medicine as soon as possible. And on the basis of this, the procedure is such as to register the drug until it comes to the list that some patients do not have time to wait because the nature of their disease is that months are infinitely long and that the clinical status in which nothing can be done or unfortunately is lost and life is lost is lost. We went with the idea towards the practice of other EU countries that it was just another form of sensitivity for all of us who should try to help with solidarity and the government showed this year, I cited two examples. And for all of us together, it's convenient to bear in mind that the innovative drugs that are now in sight are something that any country in the world will deal with and you've taken out of context, so you've misread the government and me that I said, I didn't say, but I said in the context that unfortunately modern medicine is extremely expensive every year, and with all these forms you're carrying heavily rich Israel, Japan, America, Germany, and so are we. In this context it was said and believe that regardless of our difficulties, wherever the indications of medical evidence are based on practice and science, Croatian patients will not be discontinued.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67083	Thank you. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67084	Dear Professor, Mr. Minister, I'm not happy with the answer because it cloudes reality. It seems to me that the government, too, and you're actually moving away from reality and that you're looking too comfortablely and elitistly at these problems. In the end, the government is very hypocritical. Very hypocritical. On the question of MPs Anka Mrak-Taritash how much we have allocated from the budget to the religious community, we have received a response from the Government, though... Bocuns because it should be dragged as a tail to get information, that almost 2 billion kunas have been transferred to religious communities in just 3 years, and if we were to add those funds coming from local and regional self-government, the question is how much money has gone into 20 years as the Vatican contracts are in force. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now that citizens see that the government doesn't want to donate funds to severely ill children, the question is why do we rub our fat necks with a fat goose, the same geese that is... with my real estate, and real estate earned by the national money and the money I get from the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As long as we're so hypocritically setting things up that they're given to fat geese, drowned people living on the back of this people, and on the other hand, we don't have the means for the most affected people in this country and not for our own fault, but for the disease. It is a question of all questions and alarms to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to finally be constructively asked to address the problems of its citizens, not to raise to stakeholders who promote the worst, the most rigid and the lastest ideas whose bishops have and take the right to take this government's mind, and to treat this people as geese, not in fact as their flock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67085	Thank you very much. The next question is that of the respected representative Mira Totgergelia, who will be asked by the minister of sea, transport and infrastructure to Mr Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67086	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I ask my question to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Oleg Butkovic. Well, here's the public, so lately, there's been a storm going on over the new Road Transport Act proposal. It goes even to the point of saying that this bill will cause chaos on Croatian roads, especially some part of the citizens involved in taxi transport have rebelled, so I wonder why we need this new bill, what it brings us and how it will affect road transport, especially taxi transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67087	Minister Oleg Butkovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67088	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, before I answer your question specifically, I will first say that the new Law on road transport, on road transport, was in public debate from 1.12. to 31.12.2017 and that all objections and proposals in the ministry are currently being considered, and then we should establish a final draft of the law and go into the government procedure. The reasons why we went to the adoption of the new Road Law in road transport because there have been significant changes in EU legislation. There has been an increase in our economic activities particularly in tourism, as well as an increase in exports of goods and services, and all this has affected the supply and demand on the transport market, and we have therefore decided to move towards making a new law. Before I go to what causes the public's best interest, it's a new definition of car taxi transport. I just want to point out that we have also defined some new forms of transport, such as micro transport, integrated transport, agency activity, etc. So there will be a lot of new things in this law that will make it easier in rural areas to transport people and the fact that there is an increasing need to connect people in this area. The new definition of car taxi transport I quote from the law is the activity of public transport of passengers carried out by a passenger car if a passenger or a group of passengers is loaded in one or more places and is taken off elsewhere, and such transport is carried out on the basis of one order and with one payment of the total fee for the transport carried out by a particular taximeter. And this is what the newspaper is via an electronic application or other appropriate device according to pre-known conditions. This means that according to this new definition, more people will be able to take a taxi at the same time and the taxi will be able to stand in more places, only one bill will be paid. Taxi can for the first time be ordered with legal application and application introduction. And what matters most is the same rules for everyone. In this law, there are no preferential forms of transport, special forms of transport, but rules have been laid down in advance. We also went on the other hand to facilitate the acquisition of licences and what may be most important in market liberalisation, in other words that cities and municipalities will no longer be able to determine by their decision how much they will be done, how many licences will be issued in their area. As for the crowds and main objections that liberalisation will lead to traffic jams on our roads, especially in major cities during the summer season, etc. My answer was our intensity was precisely that by liberalising, we would allow citizens a more accessible and cheaper taxi and that they would be less used by personal cars. And what may be the most important weekends in the late or morning hours when young people drive their own cars and unfortunately there are those side effects of accidents, etc. So this law goes towards the safety and availability of taxis and, of course, the cost of all our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67089	Thank you. Dear Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67090	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive response. Well, I just think that by respecting all the remarks and suggestions made by those involved in transportation in the Republic of Croatia and the procedure which is precisely in this session of the Parliament, where most of the laws are passed in two readings, and not how it was most often in previous stimuli that they were adopted according to an emergency procedure, we will ensure that the law improves the transport on our roads and that it is also bringing economic, but also the development of those parts because we are looking at large cities, and in another way, we are looking at rural areas. And it is also in these rural areas, where most of our citizens, almost except their cars, can use no other means of transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67091	Thank you. The next question, Ines Strena Linic, Minister of Transport and Infrastructure, will be asked by a respected representative, Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67092	The Honorable Chairman, here, Mr. Minister's transfer, did not mention that you were involved in this story about the Oil and the Third of May, and I hope you would get involved, as the government did, because two months ago, when I asked that question, there was practically heresis and very aggressively from the administration they began to say that it was politics, in the end it conspired. And we see that now some solutions have started to be sought and the administration is asking for help from the Croatian government. And I hope you get involved, like everyone in our neighborhood, because he mentioned both IDS and SDP, but also the Bridge and you and HDZ. So it's all in everyone's interest. My question, as minister, which comes from the Primorian Mountain County, is the question when will the bridge to cross the Krk Bridge be abolished? So, we welcome that the tunnel was abolished, for the bridge, for the tunnel through St. Elijah, which is connected to the bio-cow area and which is still charged. But we think that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia should be equally valuable and should have the same rights, but now, as you know, the bridge, the Krčki bridge, which has been standing for 37 years already and connected the island of Krk, with the whole of Croatia but also with Rijeka, has become a practical suburb of Rijeka, has contributed greatly to the development of the island. The bridge has long been paid and still, Croatian citizens must pay by crossing them. So, I'm curious to know what you're going to do as Minister after we, as the Primorian Mountain County, address you with such a request. As you know, the coastal mountainous county is on several sides limited, with several charges. So we pay the tunnel through Učka, which is actually one, would say a colonial approach committed to the management of Mr. Sarinić long ago to the French, perhaps as well as one condition of entry into the EU, so we have a few kilometers of highway to the hole, as well as a highway through Gorski Kotar, for the citizens, please answer my question about the Krk Bridge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67093	Thank you. Minister Oleg Butkovic's reply. And I'm asking my colleagues to stick to time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67094	Thank you very much. Here you go, Vice President, Your Honor. The answer to your question is next. Here, first of all, let me say around the tunnel of St. Elijah. Since 1.1.2018, we have abolished the toll, the government has made a decision, and in a way that, from the authority of the Croatian highways, the tunnel has moved to the Croatian Roads, which according to the excise duties and what our citizens pay, also through the fuel, will take over the maintenance of that tunnel. It was one decision, because the people in the Imotski and the surrounding municipalities lived with such an initiative and we estimated that for economic and demographic and their reasons it should be helped to end it, and I think it was a very good decision. As for the Krk Bridge, according to the Law on Islands, all residents, all legal and natural persons living on the island of Krk, but not only on Krk, but also on the surrounding islands, are free of toll payments. And in last year, it means in 2017 from the state budget, somewhere around 26 million kuna, the state intervened to make up for that difference. Of course, we at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure are considering opportunities, not only on the Krk Bridge, but also in other parts of Croatia, in which it is also necessary, not to mention all these reasons. Help the local population and, of course, the economy, through the toll reduction, the new system of collection that we are preparing, which should go in the direction, also make it easier, but what we must take care of is both the total road debt and the 5 and a half billion euros, which Croatia currently owes. It also means restructuring and refinancing of existing debt. So my answer is to you, but also to all those in the Primorian Mountain County, that we are considering all possibilities and that, of course, we will, in accordance with everything I have said, make the right decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67095	Dear Representatives of Ines Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67096	Well, I'm not happy with your answer, because you should know, that even before you release the passage through St. Elijah, the citizens there actually had a 60% discount or some actually completeness in being released. But you should also know, that about 37,000 of them go through the winter period, monthly through that tunnel, but also, during the summer months, it's even 280 thousand, which means we give free tunnel to tourists. But it's for encouraging tourism. What I'm interested in, it's the Krski Bridge, of which 50 million kunas are coming, and we paid it off in 1990, because he was released into traffic in 1980. So that's what this is all about, as long as the citizens of this county continue to co-finance some things. You should know, that practically, a billion kuna we freed the French, actually from paying VAT on the tunnel through Učka, because in 2014, we were freed from VAT payments. Every year we subsidize them and then about 380 million kuna, we, 380 million euros, have so far given them fees at the end of each year. So we give that money somewhere, but only the citizens of our county, the citizens of Croatia, are still paying for the tunnel, paying for the passage through the Krk Bridge. So, we all remember, as it was, 3,000 people could have gone daily with a ferry, today it's in peak days, during the season and 35,000. That bridge was important, that bridge has improved the very island of Krk, but now we are looking for what is our right, which is that we do not pay for the passage across the Krk Bridge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67097	Thank you. The next question will be asked by the respected representative Sanja Putica to the culture minister, Mrs. Nina Obuljen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67098	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Appreciated Minister Obuljen Koržinek, former members of the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board last week issued a statement stating that the government is covering up the truth about the chaotic, wasteful and unquality business of Croatian broadcasters. Can you please comment on these allegations and tell us what your findings are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67099	Secretary Nina Ossuljen Koržinek's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam MPs, let me first say that, in general, when we talk about HRT in both this House and the public, it would be good to reach out to facts and data much more often, and much less for impressions or some particular interests. In this respect, and last week's statement by former members of the Supervisory Board, I have already publicly assessed the unfounded and for several reasons. First of all, this House of Commons resolved former members of the Supervisory Board not because they claimed and presented certain data in their report, but simply because they went beyond the scope of what the Law on the Croatian Public Television prescribed, and that was the only reason for their resolution and the only explanation. The reason why the government proposed not to approve their 2016 report is that it did not accept, or that it proposed the Croatian Parliament to make a decision in the first place, in this way, to encourage what was happening in the procedure. So, on the one hand, the fact that this Board of Supervisors has resolved. On the other hand, the report, which was in addition to the 2017 report, provided certain data which were not contained in the previous reports. However, what is crucial in this view of the Government and which completely disproves the claims of former members of the Supervisory Board is that in its opinion the government has called on new members of the Supervisory Board, which I remind not of the Government but rather the Parliament, so this House, to consider, analyse and look into all data and all opinions of the previous Supervisory Board, including suspicions of possible illegal actions or irregularities, to investigate and remove any suspicion. Therefore, it is completely unfounded that the Government in its opinion wanted to cover anything up and it can see that each of the members or members of the former Supervisory Board as well as any citizen, because our opinion is public, is published on the websites, and will come as a material to the Croatian Parliament. At the end of what I would like to say, and I have also repeatedly repeated this government and us as the competent ministry what is most important is that the first time during last year in the legal procedure through a broad public debate, a contract was adopted between the Government and the Croatian Radio Television, which defines the public service that Croatian broadcasting in the next five years should be provided to the Croatian public and Croatian citizens. We expect from all the authorities who oversee the Programme Board on one hand, on the other hand, the Supervisory Board that oversees the business to be the guardians of the contract, to monitor whether HRT in its actions, in its programmes respects the provisions of that contract and that is all that the Government will monitor and we will manifest ourselves about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67101	Thank you. Agent Putica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67102	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I thank the esteemed ministers for your response which I am pleased with, of course, with the hope that the regular submission of the Report on the operation of Croatian RadioTelevision to the committee responsible as well as the Parliament itself will contribute to further transparency of business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67103	Thank you. The twenty-first question is being asked by Representative Bozo Petrov to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67104	Dear Prime Minister, honourable members and members of the government. The government of the Republic of Croatia called on the renowned financial houses to participate as government advisers in the process of buying out shares in INA a month ago. I was wondering if the government had finished the call the day before yesterday, did the government receive any offers? How many offers did she take? I'm also interested in deadlines. Within what time the Government of the Republic of Croatia will hire these advisers and within which time these advisers will also make some recommendations. In addition, I wonder how much these advisors will cost us because the media mentions more than 200 million kunas. I believe that the entire Croatian public, like all of us here, is being followed by anticipating when the final decision will be made by the government, with which the government of the Republic of Croatia will buy this stake in the INA. Of course it's all there. If there is a promise that you Prime Minister made on Christmas Eve 2016 that INA will cross into Croatian hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67105	The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67106	Thank you, Reverend Petrov, for your question about the INA. It's true, the process that was an invitation to tender, but it's open for those who want to report it ended two days ago, according to the information that the finance minister gave me last night, we received 7 offers, 7 offers. In the competition itself, it is not a fixed deadline within which the best bidder will be selected, at the moment the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Environment and Energy will, of course, approach the analysis of these offers. Taking into account all of this, the best adviser and all of these are the respectable houses that we have invited to report to this contest in accordance with their international references and experiences in similar jobs. What I want to remind you, as well as the Croatian public, and I think it is good that the occasion of my visit to Budapest and the statements of the Hungarian prime minister was quite clear and quite explicit. And that means that the Hungarian side is ready to solve this issue quickly and justly. That's two words that seem to give me a taste of what's going to happen in the coming months. When we say quickly, this whole situation that lasted with international disputes, arbitration, UNCITRAL, Washington, total atmosphere between INA and MOL has burdened Croatia and Hungary's relations. We believe that this is not good, that Croatia and Hungary as two neighbouring countries should have quality and good relations, relations that are much more important for, the relationship between the two nations and the economic relationship between the two countries than one issue of energy co-operation which, as you know, started with the privatisation process of INA almost 15 years ago. The choice of advisors should help the Croatian government and in an analysis of what is most important, we know what is the subject of future work but we must find the other, more important ingredient of each contract and that is the price. And that means devaluation of the value of MOL's shares in INA is not something we can fully assess ourselves, but we need those international consultants who know more about it than we do. As for last year's announcement, it still stands, of course, the advice met several times, made certain criteria which mattered. What is most important to us is that the acquisition of this package does not lead to an increase in public debt. And from this we want international advisers to give us several variations on how to continue accessing this business although I have to admit in the last year and 3 months, and I include the time while MOST was in government, here Minister Dobrović was in some way the beginner of a quality relationship between the Croatian government, INA and MOL in terms of the dynamics of the talks, the content of these discussions and the effort to find a solution to a number of open issues related to INA as a Croatian oil company. Our ambition is for INA to be a vertically integrated company, a company that may not be what it was 20 or more, 30 years ago, but in any case be a strong company that the Croatian state can rely on, and that is the purpose of our entire activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67107	Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67108	Your Honor, Prime Minister. Here's unfortunately another four minutes, I've only memorized two specific figures, which is that seven offers have arrived and that's months. And I asked a series of concrete questions because we need concrete data, about deadlines, about measures because it is an extremely important decision for the Republic of Croatia. I appeal to you that in the end and the situation around the INA does not come out as well as all the other situations that we have witnessed, which is why this government could be called soon by the government of failed promises. Why? You say your government, you stress your government all the time. Your government has made a series of promises that have so far been a mad joy. You have a situation of help for medicines, sick children, instead of helping you the government supply its employees with mobile phones amounting to 66 million kuna. The demographic measures you have announced have experienced a fiasco and the station has never been fuller for families and young people leaving Croatia. As young people leave Croatia for work, the government employs promoters. You were also promised to explore all possibilities for declaring an exclusive economic belt, as far as I can see from it, you obviously completely gave up. The Agrokor affair is still an affair because there is no transparency in the process and you have promised to profit from it. And I appeal to you at the end of the INA situation not to become a case like all these situations I've listed and which we've witnessed these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67109	Question No. 22. Representative Domagoj Mikulić sets up Minister of Labour and Pension System Marko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67110	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear Ministers Pavić, our Slavonia, Osijek-Baranja County and my city Osijek record high unemployment rates and even higher emigration rates for young people, even young families, and this, in correlation with negative natural growth, poses indeed one major challenge to all of you. With responsible and dedicated work, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and your ministry have indeed succeeded in changing certain trends, which I congratulate you on because it is indeed a real fact. Despite better indicators, however, we cannot be completely satisfied, and we all have to pursue even better results together and put in front of ourselves clear goals, which is to increase employment, increase the wages of young people, and create a prerequisite for permanent employment, which will certainly result in and be the reason and motivation in young people that they loved the lives and lives of their families here in our homeland. Therefore, we young people are interested in what your ministry is specifically doing on the employment of young people and how the measures of active employment policy have been redefined to keep our youth in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67111	Answer, dear fellow Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67112	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representative, fellow ministers and MPs. Thank you very much for asking. Economic growth is a prerequisite for creating new jobs, especially job creation of added value. When we add to that tax reform, GDP growth, the record tourist season, we cannot be without optimism, although we are absolutely aware of all demographic indicators of the emigration of young people, especially from Slavonia, where you come from. But also, optimism, drives us on certain indicators, such as the fact that we have 54000 more employees in 3 quarter 2017 compared to the year in which we work. He would remind us that at the government meeting in Osijek, we provided more than 2 billion kuna of projects for Slavonia, and that the government, the strategic project for Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem, has just highlighted the area as a particular area that has our attention. In 2018, we secured a package of over 2.5 billion kuna. It consists, primarily, of packages ranging from measure to career active employment policy, 1.6 billion kuna, within which last year we began to channel funds into permanent employment in the private sector. Our goal is, as I said, to secure jobs and ensure permanent employment for our young people. That is why we have strengthened the traineeship, for the private sector, we maximumly gave, how much the European Commission's limits, 50% of the total wage cost, but without the above limit. In other words, if someone wants to hire someone at 8,000 kuna, the state will co-finance half a year. We have significantly raised our self-employment, just to ensure that young people enter the world of entrepreneurship. We've increased the state's fees from 35,000 to 55,000 kuna. If they join in cooperatives, which is extremely interesting for Slavonia, up to 270 000 kuna. We also reduced professional training without establishing a working relationship, which we believe is no longer adequate, to force young people to work for minimum wage, and precisely with traineeship and its strengthening, we want to resolve it. In addition, we have provided different, special programmes for target groups, which are more difficult to include in the labour market such as young people, women, people with disabilities. In particular, it would highlight the programme and thank Minister Kuštević, precisely, that we have managed to ensure that we start employment. Of 75 programmes, i.e. the contracts, which we have signed so far, worth 276 million kuna, 49 of them are from Slavonia, of which 106 million kuna goes to Vukovar Srijem County. Soon there will also be a project by Ledi, a local employment-enhancing initiative, which will provide county-based employment clubs, worth more than 73 million kuna. Just as we speak, it happens in Osijek, the days of tourism jobs, where 5,000 young, unemployed, will be joined by 74 employers and will be able to find a job in the season, and we surveyed, HZZ surveyed all 196,000 unemployed, of which 22,000 expressed their desire to work in the season. In all, the government stands out 2.5 billion kuna, 300 million kuna, and for kindergartens, for employment, which Minister Murganić, Divjak and I are doing and we believe that we will make an additional step in the employment of young people in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67113	Thank you, Minister. Here's a comment, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67114	I thank Minister Pavic for his reply. With which I am, of course, satisfied and pleased with much optimism, it turns to the burning question of young people, which is unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67115	Question number 23, MP Miro Bulj, asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67116	Thank you very much. Premejeru Plenkovic, what measures have you taken in relation to the state audit on Split Shipyard? You read it and you informed that it was, that the contract was not respected, which was signed with the current owner at Split Shipyard. Have you been informed that it is unintended to spend funds, which state gives and subsidized to the development of shipbuilding? Have you been informed that the most professional personnel, who have built, for the development of shipbuilding, who have built, the world's best ships, 8 prestigious world prizes, have you taken any steps and, if you can tell, to us parliamentary representatives, 4 state audits, have warned, i.e. prove in their findings and give the Government of the Republic of Croatia's order, specifically to the Ministry of Economy, to proceed with this finding? The contract is not respected, neither is organisational, nor does it mean that it is not a transparent spending of money, money is invested as it has invested in agriculture, it has been directed to Agrokor, not the OPGs, it threatens to break down one of the strongest industrial branches, one of the most important demographic measures, it is the survival of shipbuilding. Let me just compare you, from the Cetina region, 10 years ago, 15 years ago, there were 25 buses going, and this morning at 6 o'clock, there are two vans. Do you control that, Mr Plenkovic, and tell me what measures you have taken or you are waiting for the European Commission's findings, i.e. Decision of the European Commission on Brodosplit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67117	Answer, Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67118	Dear Representative Bulj, the government is familiar with all activities related to the shipyard in Split, its business. The restructuring issue has already been touched by the relevant representative of the coat of arms. The economy ministry is a competent economy dealing with Croatian shipyards, dialogue between the ministry and the Split Shipyard administration has been continued. As far as the audit findings are concerned, they are useful for the overall assessment of the situation, respecting the commitments made in earlier years. We are in a position to communicate clearly everything the shipbuilding owner needs to meet. We regret that there are no more employees from Sinj who are going to work at the Split Shipyard, but this is one process that did not happen overnight but lasted for years. The Ministry of Economy will give you details of how they looked at the State Audit reports in writing, and communication with the Shipyard in Split, which I visited a few years ago, is permanent, continuous and we are aware of all the issues that are on the agenda, and sometimes the seriousness of the situation in that shipyard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67119	Comrade Bull's comment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67120	Thank you very much. The prime minister is subsidized by Brodosplit for shipbuilding, meaning for tankers, ships and in the contract there are 14 ships. Have you checked how many ships have been built? Not one. None, and the state subsidized. Our line from Sinj, from the island and Split, do you know where it is? Korea, Africa. However, you were more concerned with thermoelectric Peruch and how to get your husband from your minister to this project than you did with Brodosplit. Your ship's a demographic measure. It's a demographic measure. You say write in writing for Dalmatian workers who are looking for their claims. I sent an inquiry straight 62 days ago, more precisely 15.11.2017, to Minister Maric. I didn't even get an answer. Is this the business president of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister and you are changing the Rules of Procedure to prohibit us from speaking. Two months did not respond against the Rules of Procedure on the Dalmatinka Workers. Also Dalmatia Wines, Designers, Viaductors,... That's why our empty Dalmatian Zagora is forgotten. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not enough to come to St. Duj and Sinjska Alka, take pictures, take photos and send a few PR messages. Mra Brodogradnja is a centuries-old tradition of Croatian people in the areas of Split-Dalmatia County, Dalmatia and Croatia. She's a developmental branch. These people are from Sinj, Korea, South Africa, Ireland, they're sharing their knowledge with you. We lost to welders, engineers, designers. These are the people we've lost that are forecasting elsewhere. And here I will send you an inquiry to the prime minister, President of the 15.11. Parliament in the case of Dalmatinka workers, whom Minister Maric has not responded to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67121	Let's go to question number twenty-four. Representative Bojan Glavasevic questions Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67122	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, members and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. President, you presented some of the things that I simply have to correct because they do not correspond to reality. In your answer you say that the freedoms of the media in Croatia are great, that the situation is great, there are no problems, but that is simply not the case. I can believe it's something you'd like, if it was a picture of Croatia that you'd like and build. But reality simply doesn't suit that. A two-day mission by leading European media freedom organisations in Croatia ended yesterday. These are organizations that are prominent, which are recognised, which Croatia eventually, which also participates in, which in their report said that freedom of the media in Croatia is failing and that is worrying at the speed. Especially a major problem has highlighted the situation on Croatia's broadcasting. Very recently, your minister, a member of the government, Mr. Medved, violated the Law on Croatian Radiotelevision Article 1 paragraph 4 which says that HRT must be free of all political pressures. I'm not saying that Minister Bear should be sent to prison in some way, but I'm wondering if you've at least talked to him about the extent to which such a procedure is not acceptable. Your Minister Obuljen had an excellent response to Zeljko Markic yesterday, so otherwise the person whose association undermines the foundations of democracy in this country was also funded by this government with half a million kunas in which she actually said what was to be said to Minister Medved. So, I'm wondering if it's acceptable for you government members to edit the program on Croatian radio and have you reacted in any way to the Secretary of the Bear's procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67123	Thank you. The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67124	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Representative Glavasevic, I don't know how you found these quotes of my answer to your colleague Bernardic's inquiry at the beginning of this current hour, but good. You obviously understand that that way. As for the film that has been discussed and discussed in the Croatian public, Minister Medved did not send any letter or make any move suggesting that he would be the editorial policy of Croatian broadcasting. Ask him freely, he's here so he can explain it to you. We live in democracy and I have to repeat Facebook once again, I guess everyone knows that, and even colleagues in the SDP don't control the Croatian government, we don't have any influence of whose site is available on the web and whose site is not, we would be really, very, very powerful with great powers if we had that influence. As regards the issue of a visit to Croatia this week, as far as I know, representatives of these organisations received a culture minister in charge of media policy, she received them as much as I know the President of the Republic, so we are open to all dialogues with all professional organisations of international character dealing with freedoms of the media. I must admit that by looking at it from the corner of the Prime Minister that someone is trying to place the thesis that censorship exists in Croatia and that there is no freedom of the media, then maybe we don't have the same standards. It's the only way I can see it. I ask you to give the Croatian public and Croatian media evidence of who it affects, who it censors, who the commentator is not in a position to state his position, which list has problems with exposure, which service on national concessions, television or radio or on any local one has any problem that could be under the pretext of freedom of freedom of freedom without talking about censorship. I must admit that I did not see it, I can allow certain people for political reasons to want to create an atmosphere, that there is some problem in that segment but I do not see it, I do not see it, certainly not in the way that you want to suggest it including HRT that I am sure of the logic of public service and the obligation to show Croatian public and Croatian citizens also films that are Croatian or co-productions, I think that's good. What's the content of these movies? Well, it's not on any minister, let alone the government. We're not going to get involved in this, we know very well what's documentary and what's played. Which is fiction, which is a joke, which is humor, which is satire, which is if you want to know Bauk, it's gone now, which is little and mocking, it's all cute and it's good. And the government of the Republic of Croatia this and I believe in the future won't have any idea that they're dealing with editorial policy, let alone something that belongs to a playful program, so I think building a story about something where it's not there is really no need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67125	Thank you. Here's your colleague, Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67126	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm not completely satisfied with your response, I'd ask him in writing if you'd direct him to me as well. I must say that part of your answer was not addressed to me at all, was directed to my colleague Bernardic, again on things that I did not ask you about, but between the lines, I can read some things that I can agree with. So, I think it's commendable to your promise that your government will in no way regulate politics on state television and we'll quote you if there's any need for that. The first step to solving a problem is to admit that the problem exists and the problem exists. So, on the index of freedom of the media Croatia has fallen 11 places compared to 2016, that is the problem. Namely, I mean okay, we can get with these lists and methods, the methodologies to agree on or not, but the fact is that this trend falls continuously and is present. Serbia has passed us. I mean, I have to tell you, I have to tell you honestly, you contribute to it, you say you're open to conversation but you tell reporters that they act hybridly, it's not the openness of the president, it's not openness, it's incarceration. The hybrid war, hybrid action, these are not words that should come out of the mouth of the prime minister of a European state, it is not openness. I can only encourage you in this place to do what you said, which you promised to think about, to really stick to it. So, contribute to the preservation of media freedoms, let that be your goal then. Set a goal. By 2018 we will raise Croatia in the media freedom index, develop an action plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67127	Let's go to the next question. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic sets it up also for Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67128	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr Plenkovic, are the external political priorities of the Republic of Croatia agreed between the President of the Republic and you as Prime Minister since you are co-creators of foreign policy under our Constitution? So my question is do you hear yourself, do you consult, do you agree with attitudes and do you run a coordinated foreign policy?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67129	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67130	I'll be in touch, coordinate, agreeing with the views that are in the interest of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67131	Commentary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You may be consulting and coordinating, but the picture that goes outside is everything only that our foreign policy is not coordinated and not agreed. I'll remind you of the recent President's visit to Turkey, totally missed. And what about the Three Seas initiative in which the President is extremely engaged that the government is silent about? The burning issues of Croatia, foreign policies are neither in Turkey nor in the Three Seas initiative, this is with the nearest neighborhood, I will remind you, with Slovenia, with an arbitration ruling that we will certainly not resolve in Ankara. Why did you or the President not go to Brussels and meet the European Commission, the President of the European Commission on our views, why did we leave arbitration and what is our position on this issue? Croatian Prime Minister, yours may not be interested, but the wire is still on the border with Slovenia. Our fishermen continue to fish along with the Croatian police. We're witnessing that their existence has been compromised. What will happen to tourists coming across the Slovenian border or from Croatia coming out across Slovenian borders? Will it wait for hours, will it endanger the tourist season? These are the answers that Croatian citizens expect from you. Are we in Sarajevo where the president is staying today to get another rejection like the one in Ankara? Because of the failure of HDZ policy towards BiH, 400 thousand Croats left it. How you emptied BiH and now empty Croatia. Because in the last year, only last year over 50,000 of our citizens went outside Croatia. While we're discussing a Croatian bus, it's already leaving the Republic of Croatia. In these matters, in these failed policies you are extremely coordinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67133	The 26th issue, respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev, is being asked by regional development minister and EU funds Gabrieli Zalac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67134	Thank you, well-respected President, Honored Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Ministers. My question is to honor the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, Mrs. Gabrieli Žalac. In fact, we have witnessed the first time since 2004 to record an increase, the rise in credit ratings. After many years, this raise among other things is in the report we can also thank the increased withdrawal of funds from European funds. On the other hand, we often hear that we are weaker in the use of these same funds, so I would ask you to tell us exactly how much the European funds were withdrawn in 2017, how much was agreed, how much and in which values were opened to compare with earlier years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67135	Thank you, well-respected representatives of Juričev-Martinchev, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives, presidents and members of the government. I'm glad you asked that question, just as you yourself said, here's a recent report actually estimated that the use of funds in the term of this government had a significant impact on the rise of credit ratings. If you allow here and add it somehow in 2017, as regards European structural, investment funds, as regards the announcement of the competition, we published competitions worth 2.8 billion euros in 2017. If we were to compare this to the last three-year period, then I must say that we also had 2.8 billion euros in that period, which were open. This means that in just a year we have published bids as in the past 3 years and therefore our allocation that has been allocated to the Republic of Croatia of 10.7 billion euros has risen to 52% in some way as regards the announcement of the tender. When we also talk about published tenders in our biggest operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, which is actually the largest investment programme of 6.9 billion euros, then I must say that just the increase in the announcement of competitions is 135% in 2017. When we talk about contracting projects in 2017 it is, after the publication of competitions, a second step which actually means using funds, we marked 2017 a significant growth in contracting projects at the level of all operational programmes 273% compared to the past 3 years. What we found as government was 9%, asset deals, now we're at 35%. What our plans for 2018 are is that this arrangement is 60% and of course it speaks about what our plan is to announce the competition this year. As for the same increase in the contract then the biggest increase in this year's contract could be seen and our public signings meant contracts with end-users of 473% growth compared to the last 3 years in the context of the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion. I regularly point out and say that we are actually 3 years behind in implementing this financial perspective precisely because this government and the preconditions for using funds, which is 20 preconditions that are called the strategic documents that we brought to the government only adopted on 30.08.2017, it is also a prerequisite to publish these competitions at all. When it comes to paying users, I must also say that it was marked in 2017 by great progress. We have increased from 285m euros in payments to 900m euros, which is also a 214% increase compared to the last 3 years. When we talk about convincing a 1+3 rule where I have to say the same, it is a key data that is constantly being examined and questioned, and these are EU-confirmed funds. All that we were assigned for 2014 we had to verify and send, in fact close by 31.12.2017, the value of the certified funds at the level of all European Structural Investment Funds reached 800m euros. We've exceeded... +3 objectives for all operational programmes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am not talking about the advances paid in Croatian budgets now, but we are talking about the certified funds that are available to us this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67136	Thank you. Here are the MPs' comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67137	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I believe that at this pace there is no fear that Croatia will not withdraw almost all the funds at its disposal, means 10,676 billion euros. And when compared to earlier years in 2014, as we could hear then, just over 4 billion kunas were withdrawn, we have now climbed over 8 billion. And it is certain that 2018 is the year in which we expect far more funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67138	Question number 27, respected representative Branimir Glavas, asks Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign and European Affairs Minister Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67139	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, honored, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I ask the question, foreign and European affairs ministers, and the issue concerns resolving problems with the border, with the Republic of Serbia, both guided by the Danube and in the mainland. According to data stored in the State Geodetic Administration, the Catastre area office, the Beli Manastir and Vukovar facility, on the left hand side of the Danube,... The site is located about 9600 hectares of surface. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For comparison with the Catastrian municipality of Osijek, which has a surface area of 6500 hectares, the data show which area it is. I stress that the Republic of Serbia, there is no official record, either registered, or graphic about these areas, owned by the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, the Republic of Serbia has included this territory in its economic potential, and is exploiting agricultural and forest land. I will remind you that the problem of Croatian demarcation was touched in 1995 during... And temporary manager Jacques Paul Klein. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was then resolved in a gentlemanly manner that the Republic of Croatia agreed with the UN governor Jacques Paul Klein to draw the border line across the Danube River along the Danube River and the Yugoslav side agreed to this, but it was a temporary solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67140	Comrade Chief, I ask you a question, time has passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67141	My question is, what has Croatia done and done in the last 20 years after... integration, related to resolving the issue of differentiation between Croatia and Serbia, especially when considering that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67142	My friend Glavas, it's been half a minute and more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67143	Especially when it comes to the fact that messages have arrived here today from Brussels, that no one will join the EU again, unless the border problem, those countries entering the EU, is resolved in the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67145	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you, Mr. Representative, for this matter. The issue of open-ended, therefore, border-opening issues with our neighbouring countries that we inherited following the collapse of the former state are very important issues for Croatia, as it is a final determination of border issues. I'd like to give you a few answers. The first one's principled. So, as far as border negotiations are concerned, the position of the Republic of Croatia, according to all the border issues, is the same. What she found, therefore, is based on international law, what she found, the arbitration commission of the Banditera in '91. Mr. borderline of the Catastrian border, former republics, former states, have become the international borders of emerging countries. So there is no doubt for us, our current border with the Republic of Serbia is the arbitration panel, and we have this view of all other open border issues. Secondly, the question that we are dealing with is the borderline issue, we are dealing with it bilaterally, because these are basically always bilateral issues. So, both with other countries with which we need to deal with border issues and with the Republic of Serbia. As regards the institutional framework, 2001. a well-founded state border commission. That same year, an international diplomatic border commission was established between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, and since then it has been called differently, with interruptions of negotiations with the Republic of Serbia on the border issue. So, first they were at the beginning of two of these meetings, then seven years there was no conversation. In 2010, the government re-launched the negotiations in this institutional context and held 4 meetings on our initiative. The last one was in September 2011 when the Serbian side found that it did not see a solution in the long term under this commission. Today's state of affairs is next. We ourselves in December last year, the government made a decision on the appointment of new members of this state's border commission and mixed diplomatic committees with Serbia, and as far as we are concerned, we are institutionally prepared and willing, since we want to solve all open issues and this with the Republic of Serbia, it is a bilateral solution and it is always the first choice for us. Of course, there must be an honest and good will on the part of the Republic of Serbia. We hope that this honest deal will come to pass. The second context in which we treat this, but also open issues with the Republic of Serbia, is our framework in which, on the one hand, we appointed coordinators for all open issues last year, including the border. They met once, the meeting will be very soon again. And we hope that in the context of these negotiations, therefore, they will agree and we will go to new bilateral negotiations on the border. If this fails to result, our second choice is a relevant international permanent judicial body, which is the International Court of Justice in the Hague. So if we start these negotiations and there is no solution, we are always of course for this solution, but there must be an agreement between the two sides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67146	Thank you. Commentary, fellow Chief, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67147	So I can be happy with the answer, however, I sincerely hope it will not be another 20 years to resolve the border dispute or solve unresolved problems and border dilemmas with the Republic of Serbia. I deeply believe that this government should make an effort to address this problem as soon as possible before the eventual entry of neighbouring countries into the EU and, obviously, the European Commission will set a condition in the future, that there will be no entry into the EU of future members unless they resolve border disputes with neighbours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67148	Let's go to Question 28, Honorary Representative Mario Habek asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67149	Dear Mr. Plenkovic, in the campaign you promised the citizens that you would reduce VAT if you became prime minister. But you did not reduce the VAT and keep your promise, but rather, you increased the VAT hosts from 13% to 25%, thereby pushing them into the gray zone. My question is very simple, will you keep your promise and cut the VAT, yes or no?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67150	The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67151	Yeah. What do we do now?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67152	Here's a comment from counterpart Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67153	Now for the second time you promised to cut the VAT, I hope this promise will be pre-election but this will still be fulfilled today, and I believe that citizens will follow very well and closely whether you will keep this promise. Also, I hope you understand how wrong the move was to increase VAT to hosts from 13% to 25%, you and Minister Maric are also boasting about tax reform, forgetting that you are a branch such as catering in some way, with that move, that people are thinking either about closing or going to the gray zone. Therefore, reduce the overall VAT rate as you promised for the second time and return to the hosts a lower VAT rate so that they can be credible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67154	Question number 29, MP Stjepan Curaj asks Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67155	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister, honourable ministers, deputy prime ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers. Here we have today had the opportunity to see by me for unknown reasons certain attacks related to all the projects in the last 6 months of the Ministry of Science and Education, above all it seems that someone seems to mind that they are trying to ensure the better future of our children because they are not involved in it, which I think absolutely must not be anyone's political platform, if I am gone then nothing is wrong and is not allowed because it is the future of all our children. So, if we are also talking about the introduction of information, about equipment, if we are talking about the launch of working groups that have stood for 3 years, etc. Of course, one of the largest of these laws and projects is also a reform of vocational education that needs to ensure the possibility of a billion kunas almost withdrawing funds from EU funds to enable these vocational schools to cope with new markets and new technologies. And then, of course, there are some speculations about how the students of these vocational schools are going to lose their new curricula. So according to this, is that true, is that the same thing, maybe it's just one of those attempts at political points, or those who have a problem with all that's been done in the last six months, so please answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67156	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67157	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I thank you for asking. It is true that the Ministry of Science and Education is conducting three major projects in pre-tertial education. One is the curricula reform of general education, the other is the curricular reform of vocational education and the third segment is the digitisation of school and the introduction of information in schools. You specifically addressed your question to vocational education. For years, professional education has actually been neglected and only now is a comprehensive reform in vocational education launched. The legal basis for this is the Law on Professional Education, which passed the first reading in this House, I thank you all, all of you, all of you MPs who supported that law and I count that it will also be in the second reading because there are several important things in that law, in amendments and additions to the law, we have done. First of all, we have provided new curriculas, second learning based on work, a third new quality assurance system and a fourth, perhaps the most important, which has been discussed, and this is the establishment of a centre of competence in vocational education. At this point in the 14 sectors we have about 270, I think exactly 273 curicula, of which we have innovated 19 curicula and the rest will also be in the next year and two innovations. The novelty is the introduction of dual education, much more participation and employers in formulating curricula according to standards, interest in qualifications standards. We think it's very important. All counties will also have the opportunity as founders to run their projects for competence centres. Competence centres will be secondary vocational schools that will be equipped, which will be given the opportunity to connect more strongly with the economy, to establish consortiums that other than schools will have at their disposal and higher education, economic operators and all those who can contribute to the quality of this vocational education. As for the curricula of vocational education, as I said, 19 has already been passed, we'll bring another hundred curiculas in a year. As far as mandatory information is concerned, mandatory information is currently in the general section for the primary school and for the secondary school of general education and it never, but really never, as it has been mentioned so often, was not intended for vocational schools because we need to know that in professional curricula, we have everything from an auxiliary wallpaper to an expert, or computer technician. And one general informative is certainly not something that is good for vocational schools. But already those 19 curicula that we brought in 2017 is a great emphasis on the development of digital skills, on IT and computing, and so it will be in the future. So we need to understand that professional curricula is built on the basis of standards, interests and the basis of labour market needs and that information as general IT is not suitable for all curricula equally. However, we will also do so in a way that every curricula no matter how many hours we conduct in information and how many ways, in how many cases our students are equipped to be equal citizens and equal means in terms of experts throughout the European Union. Because what we know is that 90% of all occupations by 2030 will need a certain level of digital skills. So not only general information, which is now the content of these changes curical for primary and secondary schools, but for all structural curricula but based on demands and needs of the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67158	Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67159	Here I thank you, I think this should have really and clearly been decided and explained that there is no alternative to simple and reform of education. And as you said, I'm happy with the answer I'd actually compare it as if someone were to object that there are no subjects in some study of mathematics or physics, I don't know general mathematics, let's say, and there are, it's explained to 30 different segments of that same mathematics. So here and here, so to be clear, it's not going to be about information, it's going to be about a lot of different parts and what all information can be about. It's clear to me that certain people may mind, that it bothers us that we're apart, means we've provided certain means, that means we don't say hop before it jumps, so we say we'll have a fifth and sixth class of IT and we won't have anything to work on. Well, of course, we will also provide funds like before, the minister was answering questions about buying just all the equipment, that all the pre-conditions for all the schools, which I repeat once again are the founders of the county's secondary schools and that they are then deploying, that they are provided with the means that they, as they have done so far, have been made through decentralised funds to question competitions and get everything they need, including equipment themselves. Of course there are also a number of things that should surely be supported and the legal measures that come to us both the Croatian and the HOK Law, so the Law on Education and Education, of course, and this reform and the Law on Professional Education. And that's what I appeal to all of us to be absolutely constructive that we're not looking for something that doesn't exist and we're not throwing away some false news or whatever false news just to say something that's wrong and we're not actually getting into content and the point of it is the future of all of us, and that's why we have to be all complicated about it. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67160	Thank you. The 30th issue, MP Ivan Vilibor-Sincic asks the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67161	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is for the president of the Croatian government, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, as regards arbitration with the Republic of Slovenia and the situation in Savurdijska vala, it is known that the incidents in Savurdijska Vali have been constant since the mid-1990s. Also, as far as the latest events are concerned, it is clear that in 2015, Slovenian officials tried to cheat in the legal process, tried to influence the arbitration judges in order for the verdict to be in favour of Slovenia, after it was discovered, to resign. It's a compromise and contamination of the process, and that's where the story was supposed to end, but the arbitration went further. Before, or last year, we saw what the verdict was, and now we are in a situation where we stick to the decision of the Croatian Parliament not to accept the verdict. However, Mr Juncker, the European Union, stood loud and clear on the part of Slovenia, although they are in principle fighting for the rule of law in the EU, do not know which serious country or politician would accept the process, that is, a decision in which they were so insidiously deceived. So they clearly sided with Slovenia and the solution advocated by the Republic of Slovenia. So my question to you is, will you give in under the pressure of Brussels, will you give in under the pressure of Slovenia and allow them to take what was never theirs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67162	The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67163	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I would like to thank Agent Sincic for asking. It's an interesting angle how you look at it, you've quoted it all as someone who followed the story from 2015 to 2017. I assume you've been following that and monitoring the government's activities as well. In this situation, the government behaves extremely responsibly, maturely, rationally, constantly. I remember a little longer than you and I must admit that there has always been no atmosphere in the Croatian public, Croatian media, political institutions so calmly on this subject as it is this time. Never before, on any open issue in the relations between Croatia and Slovenia, there was no less intensity, a dramatic tone in the Croatian public than it is now. It's very important especially for you who are calling on the Navy to come to the Savardian wave. I think it's important that you understand. As far as the European Commission's position is concerned, and I'm not saying it right now as some kind of thing, so that we don't accidentally think it's a committee lawyer, but I'm going to tell you very openly how things are. Things are so that, I don't know how much you remember the 2008 negotiations, 2009 negotiations on Croatia's membership in the European Union have been blocked and 14 chapters have been blocked, have been blocked by Slovenia due to the border issue. We have made it very clear then that the issue of borders is an issue of international law, it can be treated as a context of good neighbourly relations but in itself it is not a question of the legal gain of the EU and it had nothing to do with it. However, if those negotiations had been unblocked, it would have been in the arbitration agreement. We have approached him in good faith, this whole process and invested a lot of expertise, our and the people who do so in the academic community ministry with the support of international experts, and I think our team has well represented the fundamental interests of the Republic of Croatia in this process. Breaking the rules of arbitration and international law in the way Slovenia has done it is inadmissible. This House of the High was manifested 2 before this, therefore, in the summer of 2015 and that position is firm. It is in a certain way a negotiating framework for us at this time with Slovenia. And I think that's you, too, who obviously follow all the events more than clearly. And that is our position towards the European Commission. The European Commission has a fairly simple approach, we would like to address a problem, which is on the agenda, which they did not want, which is with them and they have a feeling, some co-responsibility because of the fact that the Commission and it had previously intervened in the conclusion of the arbitration agreement. Their position is not such that they have taken the position of Slovenia, as you suggest. It's their position for two states to find a solution. From their angle, I wouldn't want this kind of dispute to burden further expansion. And that's about the frame we're in. We are also talking with Slovenia and I will insist that this dialogue be rational, so our proposal was a border protocol, with five elements that we thoroughly elaborated, which I also publicly said on the opportunity visit of my colleagues Cerara here. I think we can get closer to the content of the future border contract, where both Slovenia and Croatia could profit. That's what we're going to represent and that's our goal in the months ahead. Independently of any international organisation's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67164	Thank you. Here's your colleague, Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67165	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Plenkovic, I am not at all satisfied with your answer. You've been going back in time and you've made a principled point, here it is. However, I did not get a clear guarantee that Croatia will remain in its positions. After all, let us only remember the HAG verdict and, as the government changed its mind, it was first discussed the rejection and disagreement with the verdict, so that in the end it would be missed. So I don't trust your position, even if you brought it out. As far as the Navy is concerned, the Living Wall is a party that stands for peace, not only in Europe, but world peace. We ask the Croatian Navy, as well as the Croatian police to do their job, it is the Croatian state institution and people who are employed there are getting paid for their job. I know you'd mind, say, the Navy in the disputed part of the Pyrenees Bay, where our soldiers defended yours, but you don't mind much where Slovenian soldiers defend something that isn't theirs and that's Saint Gera. I didn't see. Let the government do some serious criticism or intervention there. I also had a chance to be in Savudrija, talk to the fishermen, so I asked them what the scope of the work is doing your fishing in that disputed zone. They showed me like this, 90%. 90% of our work, our fishing, makes fishing right in that disputed zone, where they don't let us hunt now. We go there, they run into us, they harass us, they commit terror. We're getting more, less and less dared to go to that part. If we lose that part, we're going to have to go to the high seas, so instead of a mile to the fish, we're going to have to go 5 miles, 4, 5 miles. And that's when it gets invaluable. Croatian fishermen are already losing money and suffering economic damage and this is also a matter that needs to be resolved as soon as possible, because these are people who live off their work. For the Living Wall, the sea is land, and we certainly won't give in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67166	Thank you. Let's go to the 31st question, dear colleague Milorad Batinic, asked by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Predrag Štromar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67167	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Honorable Prime Minister, Vice President, Vice-President, Minister. I'm asking my question to the Vice-President of Construction, Mr. Stromar. The government was in early 2018. We started with a new programme of energy reconstruction of public buildings in the budget, I think it's about 380 million kuna. I'm interested, Minister, in whether based on your information available, you can show the interest of those who can run for these projects, meaning state bodies, units of local self-government. And do you think that 380 million will be based on information, or because the project is running until the use of the funds, will it be enough? And might already, if you have information to show a great deal of interest, whether it will be possible through the rebalancing to further secure additional funds. I primarily ask that, for reasons, because it is a very increased, very high interest and information from certain construction companies, small, medium-sized enterprises, who see here interest not only in additional employment but also in returning a number of employees, who have left them with a series of economic circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67168	Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Assembly Representative Batinić, that here is the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, before the very publication of this tender for reconstruction, the energy reconstruction of public buildings, made one conference, where representatives and state institutions, states and units of local self-government, regional administrations, responded to more than 300 people interested in leading the energy reconstruction of these facilities. That's how we saw it would be of great interest and it would be a good project. And a good project is for reasons, there are several reasons, one is the basic one, which is that it will reduce the consumption of cooling and heating energy. The buildings will be renovated and they will be more comfortable working for officials and tenants... The users of services that require services in these buildings are certainly more comfortable and will get a better and better service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there are other benefits. One of the benefits is that municipalities, cities and counties and the state will spend less money on energy and will be able to invest in something else. In particular, from municipalities and cities, the councils themselves in city councils, municipal councils and the county parliaments will determine where they will be with these money, and that will certainly be for the benefit of our citizens, most likely in kindergartens, schools. What is extremely important to our citizens today, which is important to them not to leave the country. However, it is very important to mention the construction sector. The construction sector will have 5 billion kuna jobs in the next 4 to 5 years, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Croatia, thanks to this competition or more. I expect there to be an increase in wages in the construction sector but also that some of our workers who went to Germany, Austria, will return to Slovenia. There's still a lot of usefulness and it's useful to confirm here, and I have information today that almost all the funds are secured, i.e. reserved. But since we have funds elsewhere, they are allocated somewhere else in agreement with Minister Žalac and Minister Zdravko Marić we will surely provide as much funds as they will be interested and that could be twice as many as 380 million, meaning around 760 million. This is what I want to encourage all those who have not yet made a request, that they can, that they have time, that they write it in quality, and that it will be a good realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67170	Here's my colleague Batinić. No, thank you very much. Let's move on, the 32nd issue of Representative Sabina Vosovac, asks the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67171	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Confession of the abused Ossetian woman: "I begged my husband for food and getting out of the house, he forced our 10-year-old son to hit me." Shocking confession: “Breaks in the face could take several hours. ” The dramatic confession of the abused woman: “He beat me in the face, he cut me with a kitchen knife, and he turned off my cheeks. ” The shocking confession of the abused woman: “He called me a stinking garbage, spit in my face, and tried to kill me. ” Confession of the abused Splician woman: "He beat me pregnant, I hung from the balcony but for the state he is a caring father." That sounds terrible, doesn't it, Prime Minister? And even worse, it's probably worse when we know in our life in Croatia that every 15 minutes a woman in Croatia is experiencing a story like this, a woman in Croatia is being abused and violently abused. Women live in the dark, live in fear, feel very often economically dependent, helpless and need some kind of light, some kind of incentive, some kind of force to violence what happens in the family and get out of it. And just when a woman might have the strength to talk about what's happening to her, about the hell she lives in, not marriage, but about the darkness then she catches on TV with a soft smile on her face that says so in your marriage. And instead of being encouraged by some person, from a minister who, among other things, is a minister for the family, she actually gets discouraged. My question to you is, are you uncomfortable with your secretary's statement? Do you feel that violence is a family problem, not a public, social, our problem, all of us? And if you think violence is our problem, why didn't you ask for the minister's responsibility?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67172	Thank you. The Prime Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67173	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear MPs, both I personally and the government and the ruling party and parliamentary majority condemn every violence in the family and especially violence against women. As for your final formulated question about Minister Murganic's statement, I have already said that the statement was neither the happiest nor the most subtle. The minister's statement was obvious, only a few hours after it was. And if someone has empathy, if someone has an understanding of the issues they are dealing with, then it's Minister Murganic. And she would be the last to, in her habitat, I've known her for many years, a person who would in any way insinuate the tolerance of any violence, let alone domestic violence and violence against women. On the other hand, everything she does in her closet, which she has done so far, gives me a clear belief that she is very determined and has no dilemmas. It is not good that one case of violence in the family that HDZ reacted to as soon as she found out about it, where we are now, we will see what will be of this process, we have gone so far as to exclude the party of the elected mayor, that we have disbanded the county organization, that we have sent a very clear message about condemning any such behaviour and that we do not intend to tolerate it. And I think about these cases that you have now cited and many other cases of domestic violence can be openly said we don't have a shred of understanding but we're going to do everything we can to put an end to this terrible phenomenon that is unfortunately present in our society. I will also use this opportunity for a few words on the process concerning the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, which is very much discussed. One message to the general public we may have forgotten. Istanbul Convention, i.e. A convention dealing with the prevention of domestic violence and violence against women was held at the end of last decade and worked during the HDZ government. Experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs participated in its work during the HDZ government, even being a colleague who did so was the chairman of the initial committee on the drafting of the convention. Later in the working group within the Council of Europe, she was Vice-President of the Working Body, and today's judge at the European Court of Human Rights has completed the job. The Convention was completed and opened in 2011. The SDP government signed the same convention. She was two years old to be directed into the ratification process. She didn't do it. I don't know why. Also at the time HDZ as an opposition called off the SDP why it did not ratify the convention. And the President of the Republic said that in the campaign. I made a statement last year on behalf of the government that we would ratify the Istanbul Convention. Mrs. Murganic, the ministry's minister of command, has spent all it takes over the past year to organise a public consultation on the convention. And what we've seen through this public consultation is that it's suddenly the topic the convention is dealing with, and that violence against women has become subordinate. Some people have put gender ideology first. It seems to me that this debate must be fully enlightened and opened and seen what the Convention brings to us on top of national legislation with its instruments of control of just these phenomena and how and how the state suppresses them. Therefore, we will do everything in this mandate, both the Government and the Parliament, to resolve this issue in the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67174	Thank you. Here's a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67175	Dear Prime Minister, it is my conclusion that you are an extremely tolerated man to your fellow ministers and other HDZ colleagues. So Mr. Tomaševic could never have become mayor if he had not had the support of his party's HDZ, and some things were known long before they came out. Secondly, when his deputy received HDZ support to be deputy mayor, he was known to be physically accounted for and violent towards a journalist. The third, you say, is mentioned in the positive context of Minister Murganic's portfolio. Personally, I have nothing against a woman, I think she's even worth it. However, the three key gaffes that emerged in the short period of time from its portfolio are the first scandalous Family Law in which, as in the picture book, it is drawn as a family, and the family is not a family if there are no children. It's in history I think the first example of some law that was withdrawn two days after the release into a public debate so scandalous was without sanctions. You're behind Minister Murganic. Secondly, take money from EU funds for needy children, buy candy and take it to some private Catholic kindergarten for children who are not actually meant for, may need candy, but are not intended for children. You also relativize it, you give it support. And thirdly, what I've just said again, as much as I'd like to ease it, but in that statement, she was clumsyly engaged, an unsaid slap by all the abused women in Croatia. A slap was fired on all the abused women in Croatia and no one can dispute that. And your government is, your colleagues are your mirror, they're your picture and opportunity. The only normal thing in my court is that you can agree with me or it wouldn't be that Madam Minister, to improve that reflection in the mirror and really show what you think of some actions, words and deeds. We're all politicians responsible for what we're doing and we're saying it was either if you asked the minister or if she had apologized to the abused women herself for her statement, the second is that she resigned if she didn't want you to do it. And don't ask me why? Because that's how you do it in normal European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67176	Let's go to the next question. Dear counterpart Ivan Celic, the question is raised by Health Minister Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67177	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Kujundzic, the governments of the Republic of Croatia are changing, health ministers are changing, but what remains as a constant are health debts. The rebalance of the budget in 2017 allocated an additional 1.1 billion kuna to the health portfolio and 870 million kunas were paid immediately for the reduction of debts. Every two to four years, we had a situation where health debts were settled and the last major recovery was during Mr. Linic's finance minister when six and a half billion kunas were paid. However, after nearly two years of that recovery, debts amounted to more than 7 billion kuna. I'm curious to know what the current health debt is? What do you plan to do to keep debts stable, that is, not gradually growing, and do you feel that the existing health system in the Republic of Croatia is sustainable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67178	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67179	Dear Mr. Celic, thank you very much for reopening this issue, because Mr. Beus was speaking somewhere on this trail of health finances. We all know that there are few countries in the world that, no matter how high their budget is at the annual level, do not make a deficit. For example, England is handsome because of round numbers, the health budget has a hundred billion pounds. About every year, their deficit is about 20 million pounds. Unfortunately, and in our health system for many years, a deficit has been produced, and every year health debt has been increased and what you have stated has happened occasionally, but so on. Recoveries are actually an increase in public debt, that debt remains, it's written down, and it has to pay someone back. This is the first time after a whole series of years where we end a year where the debt total in health and debt in health has been reduced without having happened so-called. The recovery did not result in an increase in public debt and, secondly, the burden we place on our children. This government did so this year in a way where it respected its legal obligation to the health system and symbolically speaking, this government paid almost everything it had to pay. On this trail of maturity on the one hand in cost control and on the other hand care for all of us with to guard the health system is something I believe that we will endure both this year and the years ahead and that it would not have turned out to be actually doing what once a day politically likes to say some savings and restrictions, we have not worked, for example the Fund for Expensive Medicines this year, I mean 2017, it increased by thirty percent, which is an extremely large percentage at one year level, so we respected all the new treatment methods, we respected all the new medicines, no matter how difficult it was for us. I appeal to everyone, regardless of who belongs to which party to keep health care available and by quality and thus so that we do not go daily politically assault each other and talk to so-called. Taking care of the sick, that someone has to pay for it and all together like this government did this year, let's insist on that trail, ensure the health system both by quality and by human resources and by availability and by financial means. I believe that this year on this trail we will insist that the debts will not increase or leave the deficit behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67180	Thank you. Here's your colleague, Cjelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67181	Here I thank you for your response, I hope that in the national reform programme, which includes the reform of the health system that includes, for sure, the amendment of the Health Protection Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Mr. Andrej Plenkovic and you as Minister of Health, will make the Croatian health system recognizable and sustainable and at EU level, because we are most often talking about the disadvantages of the Croatian health system and we, who are within that health system, know that areas such as transplant medicine, such as the treatment system of opiate addicts, are always at the top of all criteria compared to other EU countries. And in the end I would ask you on behalf of 6.5 of multiple sclerosis patients to support their campaign, namely there are some discriminatory criteria such as the upper age limit of a person suffering from multiple sclerosis older than 55 years cannot get a drug for multiple sclerosis, so I ask you to contribute to the quality of health care with the strength of the position you are now acting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67182	Let's move on. Now it is MP Tomislav Klaric who asks the question of Minister of State Property Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67183	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The Ministry of State Assets announces the activation of state assets, particularly of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. We are witnesses and we all know, we have a whole series of examples that practically in all cities in the area of Croatia from Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and all the way to Dubrovnik we have a whole series of such spaces, many of them are used illegally, some of them are rented and here's my question, what are you doing about it, and how do you plan to resolve this situation and activate those areas?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67184	Thank you. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67185	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Klaric, not only announces activation but has also activated hundreds of properties, has put into office and walks in the state budget have been felt on this basis. But in order to understand what we are doing, we should know at least in principle how the situation is found and I am sure that you and the Ministry of State Assets and what we have been working with, you know very well what the Ministry of State Property has done, even in your area and in your area because how much it has contributed to such an entrepreneurial zone that is not in the city of Bakru as it is in Croatia. The situation found is depressing but it is not the result of the pre-government or the last government or the left or right option, it is a sedimental phenomenon that has been laid down for years. The register of state property as if it doesn't exist, it's not true, it's not complete, it's not secure. The state audit estimated the latest finding as unfavourable, one of the few findings of the State Audit where the legal predecessor of the Ministry of State Assets has given an unfavourable assessment due to observed irregularities and negativity and they are very difficult to give an unfavourable assessment. They gave 49 order for correction, my task was immediately and began to remove all irregularities by the end of last year, and here I can tell you that all 49 irregularities identified by the State Audit have been removed in this past year and so on... which is done by the Ministry of State Assets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have prepared the publication of competitions in Zagreb for 100 business spaces, determine which ones are empty, free of charge in the register. Let's keep an eye on these 100 business spaces, 40 is not available at all. They're full, there's someone working, but nobody knows who he is, nobody knows, they don't have any contractual relationship. Thousands of illegals and hundreds of illegals. It's this sedimental phenomenon in relation to state property. We published only in 12 months for 100 business premises competitions. The result of this competition is that only for two business spaces per 100 square square squares we got a rent bigger than for 50 business spaces as it has been done so far. 52000 kuna is for one business space, 32000 kuna for another business space and so on. We have made an eyewitness for Zagreb for 800 business spaces. But you know in the register you have for example Ilica 42, ground floor right office space 82 squares. There's no such thing as an eyewitness. There's no such thing as that space. He's not even in nature. And so throughout Croatia. We have returned many illegal users to the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, some and sound that have usurped for 25 years and what is one image of the relationship to the state property. It was wasteful, irresponsible. We have now both in Zagreb and outside Zagreb opened the competition for the first time for business spaces. We also published a tender for 4 tourist hotels that also have huge properties. The result of this contest was, although I was called last year, that we did not receive 100 million kuna. The revenue will be €520 million for these four hotels and more than a billion and €200 million in investment how much real estate will be employed only in these projects that will only result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67186	Thank you. Comrade Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67187	Dear Mr. Minister, I thank you for your response and I am convinced that not only I, but also many of my fellow mayors, the mayors throughout Croatia welcome such a thing with the fact that we are aware that both at this time and after all your business activities, it is difficult to know the true state of state property given the unsettled cadastre and all that needs to be done. And I believe you're taking care of that, and we're going to welcome that especially on the ground because there are a huge number of these business spaces, objects owned by the Republic of Croatia in a very bad condition, so there will be a need to provide sufficient resources for their current maintenance and some kind of investment maintenance. And if it sets up order so the state starts to really take care of how you announce and how you started in any case supporting and I thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67188	Let's move on. Dear representative Ljubica Lukacic asks the question of Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67189	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As you said, I will refer my question to Mr Drazen Bosnjak, Minister of Justice. Mr. Minister, the executive law is often changed, and we all know that frequent amendments to the law bring certain uncertainty to our citizens. You, Mr. Minister, in the past year, said on several occasions that it was necessary to pass a comprehensive executive law that would allow the executive procedure to be carried out effectively, economically and quickly and equally that would allow for the protection of the dignity of the perpetrators. I beg you, Mr. Minister, can you tell me if the Department of Justice has done anything about the construction of a new executive law? And if it was what his goals would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67190	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67191	Dear Representative Lukačić, thank you very much for this question and you are really right when you say that we have changed the Executive Law too often and in fact frequent changes lead to certain difficulties in its application and practice. After the recent amendments to the Executive Act came into force, we at the Ministry of Justice made a decision on the establishment of a working group which will therefore work on making a whole new Executive Act and it is done. And the executive law working group works and works. What we want to achieve by this new Implementing Law is indeed one system, because the performance in Croatia and everywhere in the world must be a process that, after the trial takes place, I do not know how long, after someone remains in debt or does not meet the requirements of the exercise must go quickly and efficiently. But what is also also equally important is the requirement of the exercise must go in a way that is least harmful and at least causes damage to both the perpetrator himself and that in this process it is in fact preserved and its dignity and that it has actually full conditions for both existence and work. It is these objectives that we and we have put into the work of this task force for the creation of a new executive law where we have also seen the clear and weaknesses we now have in the system, and these are very high costs that appear in the work because we have a lot of participants. Public notebooks and lawyers and FINA and the court are also involved, and everyone has a role to play in this matter. Very often uncoordinated and working. We also want one concentration of this process, but what we have explicitly put in place and we want to reduce these costs of implementation. What was speaking also how much we need to make such a law is a very complex legal project. It's not a project we can do in a short time. And we as a ministry will provide full support to the infrastructure, ensure all conditions for this process to go as quickly as possible. But we're not sure we can do it this year, so we didn't even put it in the national legislative programme for 2018. But we'll do everything we can to make it as soon as possible. The task force we've established is very competent, it's very wide. It's actually where I'd say all the relevant groups that participate. There are also judges who deal with this, there are state lawyers, there are representatives of the FINA, there are representatives of the State's Attorney's Office, there are representatives of the Bar, the Chamber of Commerce, but there are representatives of the union. And for the first time within that working group, we have made it possible for members and really interested groups, so there are representatives of the “blocked” Association and everyone from their position, from their position I will certainly contribute to making this work good and quality. This deadline in which we are actually going to do all this together, I think that after we have brought these last amendments to the Executive Act here, we have created certain more favourable conditions for our perpetrators, because today in Croatia, no one else can end up on the street, on the road. So the state in these situations guarantees home and yet a whole series of actually favourable things that are easing, actually, that's what we've brought. So here, the task force is working, and I believe we'll soon have one quality draft if that's possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67192	Thank you. Here's a colleague of Lukacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67193	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for this extensive response. I am sure that the working group will do a good job, that the Government will propose to us here in the Croatian Parliament a quality bill that we will discuss and that will really enable the executive process to be implemented quickly, efficiently and economically. And what I don't think I'm going to say is most important, but it's extremely important to really protect the dignity of the perpetrators and that it's going to be a quality law that we won't have to change often. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67194	Thank you, too. There are three more questions left. It is now up to representative Predrag Matic to question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, after two years ago Mr. Karamarko, fortunately tried to bring HDZriat into this country, you came as one refreshment and hope to this government. But hope lasted for a while, you promised us a lot of things but unfortunately you didn't keep it. For example, you promised a smaller government and really reduced it by one ministry, and then in two days you founded the other ministry. Less officials instead of assistants, State Secretary. Now we have a secretary of state who's in the story, and the assistants are left. The smaller public administration, therefore no, the administration is increasing and it is obvious that, in addition to the competition, only those with a physical flaw get the job. But I could still do a lot about it, but I need to ask a question, hear your personal attitude. So, try, not only try but influence so-called influence. I would like to hear your opinion on what you think about the night of the theatre being held throughout Europe, but in Croatia alone, this is not to be done because it happens on the night that Vukovar and theatres are marked, while all the discotheques play tea. That's not what anyone's talking about. How about the pressure of some, too, so-called. representatives of the defenders on Croatian radio and not only attempt, but looking for a shift from Mirjana Rakic, Ace Stankovic, Maja Sever, Milorad Šikonjic and how about leading the editorial policy by the highest officials of your government. Did you ask the minister and let's hear it out in front of everyone whether he sent it or not? We know he's affected the phone, and whether or not he sent the letter, I'd like to hear from you decidated. I honestly think he has to lie to someone now, either you or the public, or so-called. The defenders. I personally think they'll lie to you because you're less respectable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67196	The Prime Minister answers, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67197	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Representative Matic, as far as I know, Minister Medved did not send any letter suggesting that some of his letters, which clearly did not try to influence the editorial policy of Croatian broadcasting. You can ask him, you're friends, you know each other, so he can explain it to you. So I don't know what this third question is today, which is alluding to censorship, the impact on freedom of the media. I must say, you've surprised me a little bit. I guess it's really some kind of "agulin syndrome" now I don't know what to call it different. But it seems to me, or we don't follow the same media, we don't read the same newspaper, we don't listen to the same comments. I have no idea that SDP officials have neither on Croatian radio or on other TVs anything more or less than HDZ. On the contrary, vice versa. So it seems to me that maybe a little bit here you went offside. I don't know why, if it's a fruit of some impression. Sometimes I may have the impression that we're being criticized more than we'd like, but we live with it, even if it's satirical and we don't object. As far as Croatian TV is concerned, it is in our interest to be a public service with a high standard of professionalism, with that role that public service plays in relation to those other TVs that have a national concession because this programme is being watched and that it meets all the broad programming guidelines that should be given. And that's what matters to me. All the other things that you said on the way here, and what we promised, that you had experienced that I didn't think that the total picture, I repeat it again the other day, and to my colleagues in the government and colleagues in the parliamentary majority is better than someone who's on the side of opposition or criticism at this point wants to portrait, draw. But it's all right. And we're in the game now. I say it's a little better, you say it's never been worse. I think it's true somewhere in the middle, that trends are good, that we're aware of the problems of everyone we have and the issues of emigration and the issues of demographic revitalisation and economic problems and production and all that we need to do to strengthen, or reduce inequality in society, to support those who are the most vulnerable, whether they're people who work with minimum wage, whether they're people who work with pay below average, whether they're pensioners, whether they're young people who are looking for a chance. I'm not saying we've solved all the problems, there's been a lot of cumulation going on these years. Here in 2017 are almost rare skeletons from the closet that stayed in the closet without coming to the agenda, but here we are. That's right. It happened. We do not give responsibility or guilt to those who have contributed to such situations earlier, but we want to address them, preferably with as much support as possible and as much consensus as possible. So from the point of view of the work of the Croatian Defence Minister, I think the law that we have passed, I see that you refer to it in public is one law that has long-term resolved a number of issues, and it corrects certain injustices. That's how I experienced it, that's how we read it. Keep an eye on it. It's not just Secretary Bear's law. He led the process, but it was attended by all the resistors. And that spirit of partnership that he set up with defense associations, I think he was useful, I think he was good. I think we've also solved the issue of the fiscal framework of that law, and I believe that we've made one step that's useful and that we've said as a state, not only as a government, but we're obliged to do and we're behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67198	Thank you. Comrade Matić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67199	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. President, but it's your right to underestimate me and also to place me in the section of those you've responded to not only here, but also to whom you answer and who have an IQ smaller than the number of shoes. I'm sorry you put me there, too, but it's your right and thank you for that. So you didn't answer what I asked you. So, the movie we're talking about, and I've already told the public. It is done if, according to my humble judgment, one of the usual relatively bad Croatian films that is due to pressure, whether because of Minister Bear, I don't know why you won't tell us in a porno term around half past 12, and I've been watching it. I've been looking at him for the rest of my life. It's a classic bullshit movie. However, you will not reprove the Minister of the Bear, nor change, let alone, but I will tell you why. For two reasons. The first is because you can't even think about it, and the second is why don't you please don't change it, because the better of the tent crew certainly isn't there, believe me, and you know it. You have honored yourself in that tent. So there it was, you remember at the time of Karamark before the Minister of the Bear ran for 10 of them. However, they were all stuck on it, unable to bring in a certificate of impunity. And Minister Bear's really the best there is. But I'll tell you what, I'll tell you what, when you bring me down a little bit, I can tell you something. I enjoy why you don't change it and why you won't comment on it. I enjoy having someone in the EU ask you, maybe Agel Merkel, maybe Juncker. One of your reforms that we could also sell the EU is that we don't need programming councils, that we don't need editors on TV when ministers, your ministers can handle it neatly and take care of everything. And that's why in my personal name and in the name of 200 thousand of our fellow citizens, I can tell you only one thing. I'm selling the apartment urgently and favorably!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67200	Let's go to 37 questions. Representative Vladimir Bilek asks the question of Croatian Defence Minister Tommy Bear, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67201	Here I thank the well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed President of the Croatian Government, vice presidents, ministers, members of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm going to address the matter of defenders to a much better place, and that's in the Ministry of Defense of the Honorable Minister Tommy Bear. But I'm also going to talk about defenders in this matter, but as usual, a little bit more with respect and piety than it was in this past issue before me. First of all, I would also like to thank the Minister and the Ministry for their assistance, but also the other institutions that helped us in the last year in Daruvar, meaning to open a museum of Homeland War in the open for many years which has been one of the objectives and defenders of the city of Daruvar. And my question will not be in this sense of the museum, or if we must know, we must educate our young man must not be forgotten. Never forget the truth about the Homeland War. But first of all, unfortunately, the Homeland War most in the defense population has certain consequences, the consequences that take time to solve, for which they need certain ways, and one of these is also the veterinary centres we've been discussing for years, which we've been trying to set up. Some of them have been established and we have seen what a quality solution this is. My question directly to the minister will be one meaning veterinary center, a veterinary center in Daruvar. It is a question raised by citizens of the city of Daruvar, our surrounding municipalities and cities. The question asked by Croatian defenders in the area because it concerns them first. We know we've done a lot of things, that we've secured space, that it's passed means project. Well, here's what I'm curious about is what time periods are like now. We've had a few meetings over the last year. Some terms have been made. I'm interested now that the state budget is passed on to what these terms are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67202	Thank you. I'm asking Minister Bear for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67203	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you very much for this extremely important question and for reminding us of one of our strategic priority areas that we regulated among other things after a long series of years and in our law adopted in the Croatian Parliament last year. As part of our regular activity, the establishment of veteran centres as development centres will provide professional assistance and services, primarily related to psychosocial empowerment and physical rehabilitation of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. How in the last year we discovered, or opened the first Veteran Centre in Lipik and after the implementation and application and lessons learned by putting it into function. We are starting to implement the process within the programme. The European Regional Development Fund provides funding for the implementation of the project of the establishment of veteran centres in the Republic of Croatia, which includes the adaptation, construction and equipment of real estate that the ministry has received for use in the establishment of veterinary centres. The location in Daruvar was selected on the basis of a study done, and this is the only one currently planned to build from the foundations, unlike other centres, they are in Petrinja, Sibenik, Sinj and Osijek where they are referring to the adaptation of existing buildings. In October 2017, the Ministry of State Property gave the above-mentioned land to the management of the Croatian Defence Ministry for the purpose of establishing a veteran centre in Daruvar, thus completing the provision of property-legal relations. After the publication of a public call and the selection of the best idea architectural solution, the Ministry provided all the preconditions for the production of project documentation in 2017. In particular, the project technical documentation services are contracted through the negotiation process of public procurement and a procurement procedure has been carried out during 2017. The call for negotiations was published on 21 September 2017 and the selection decision was taken on 18 December 2017 and was published in an electronic public procurement notice of 27 December 2017. No complaints have been received in the open appeal procedure. Therefore, according to the above, the conditions for the conclusion of a public procurement contract for the construction of an idea and main implementation project for the establishment of a veterinary centre in Daruvar have been met. With this we will fully initiate the process and realize our planned activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67204	Comrade Bilek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67205	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Let me, on behalf of and citizens of the city of Daruvar and the defender from our area, thank you to you, the Ministry, all those with whom we have communicated, but also to all those who have already worked on this project and to my fellow parliamentary representative who is currently not here and all those who have led the ministry. I'm glad you recognized that Daruvar has these potentials, that the city of Daruvar has given everything possible to go to this project at this pace. Because it is not intended solely for the military veterans of the Homeland War, but the target groups and Croatian soldiers were killed in the peace missions we unfortunately also have, killed by pyrotechnics and other victims of the Homeland War. The Daruvar Centre should receive about 150 users, and what is also very important for Daruvar is that he will find work in the future center according to the currently unofficial data that we have about 30 professionals who are very much welcome for us for Western Slavonia. So thank you again. I hope we can start construction work soon, first of all, this year. And allow me just one small remark about Western Slavonia, which has indeed suffered very badly in those wartimes, and still have not recognised all military-related actions in the Homeland War. Here, first of all, I think and thank you for and I hope that you and the rest of our institutions and the Ministry of Defense will continue to work hard, and all those involved in this for the recognition of military-related operation Otkos 10, which was one of the first liberating actions in the Western Slavonia area. And I believe that soon we will also provide our defenders with another bigger pie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67206	And let's go to the last question, Honored Representative Marko Vesligaj asks the question of the Minister of Environment and Energy Tomislav Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67207	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished prime minister, members of the government, respected Minister Ćorić. Cities and municipalities of 1 February are obliged to make decisions on how to collect, i.e. providing public service for the collection of mixed biodegradable waste by the Government on municipal waste management. Local self-government units that do not do so face fines ranging from 100 to 800,000 kuna, and penalties are also provided for those citizens who will not separately collect waste. Of course, no one's against separate waste collection. Many local units have gone far enough on this matter. We all want a better, cleaner environment, we all want a nicer and greener Croatia. But the ministers in this regulation in which you have forced units of local self-government to actually adopt this decision has an extremely large amount of illogicalness, an extremely large amount of indeterminateness that directly leads to the cost of waste disposal rising by 100% for our citizens. Do you at least consider amending this Regulation so that at least there is no such drastic increase in the price of waste, which is actually a direct blow to our citizens' standard of living. Is it possible through the regulation to at least predict stimulation for those citizens who will collect less mixed waste, and some local units have gone far on the issue and I think it is not good that they are all placed in the same basket. So my question is whether or not the amendment to this regulation is planned in this direction that I was talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67208	Minister Djoric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Weldergaj, for this matter of yours. So you're right, the regulation actually came into effect in the month of November last year with a departure, that is, in the month of November of last year with a break, i.e. with a delay of 3 months and of 1.2 local self-government units are obliged to comply with this Regulation. Whether or not your question was at one point focused on whether we intend to change this regulation at the moment, we do not intend to. Why? Because in the Republic of Croatia the waste management system, the system of efficient and fair waste management requires the responsibility of all of us and local self-government units. The waste management plan of the Republic of Croatia was adopted, the last plan was adopted in January 2017. Local self-government units had enough time to access their waste management plans and focus their activities on more efficient waste management. What we can and want to do at the Ministry of Environment and Energy is give all possible support to local self-government units and their utility companies in the coming period to build a waste management infrastructure. What does that mean exactly? At this point, i.e. two days ago, a tender was opened, i.e. a call for units of local self-government, primarily for the implementation of educational and informative activities of citizens. So we have to work on all fronts, at least that's what the Ministry of Environment and Energy would tell me. Also in the coming weeks, expect the Ministry of Environment and Energy to open an invitation to show interest in the supply of containers that will allow waste to be decommissioned at home threshold level. And that's what it is, and that's the direction in which we all have to go together. In the next few months, we will also open calls for construction of sortery, on the purchase of vehicles, in the first two quarters, that is, in the first semester of this year, so to build infrastructure for efficient waste management. What should not happen and what you have stated in your question as an introduction, a particular part of the question, is an increase in the account by 100%. It shouldn't be like that. For what? Because the separation of municipal waste from households on the very threshold reduces the level of waste that goes to so-called. the green bucket and in this context will not occur or there should not be an increase in the account. What, i.e. the direction in which it is also not going to go is to punish the moment this Regulation enters into force because it was not in anyone's interest. It is in our interest that we all act together responsibly and move in a responsible direction towards waste management in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, in recent years this has not been approached in this way. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67210	My fellow Squishy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67211	Well, I thank the Minister, but unfortunately you didn't answer this question that I asked you. It does not seem to you that through the regulation there is no increase in the cost of waste disposal because a fixed part of the price is at such a high level that service providers, whether they are utility companies, were concessionaries, through this regulation were actually brought to the wall to increase that price. It's because of the numerous administrative measures listed in the regulation that I don't have time for here to quote them all. And through those changes you could certainly have influenced the reduction, that the service provider actually reduced the price. So before, of course, the waste disposal system is built for years and a lot of things have been done over the past years that unfortunately have stopped now, I'm going to mention from the waste management center, we only have two, so of the total 13, how many of them were there. So I don't see any movement here. I see numerous competitions that you have announced that are mostly unfortunately scheduled for the purchase of equipment, which is good and that I welcome. However, this equipment is usually not Croatian, so first we favour the importers, first we please the merchants instead of investing that money in the education of the citizens rather than putting all the local units in the same basket. There's a colleague, Mayor of Chakovec, who's far away from collecting junk and who's about to come into a situation where he has to pay bills to his citizens and over the years he's invested in this system, unfortunately through this regulation you're actually bringing him to the wall and he's going to have to do it now. I am not satisfied with your response and this regulation will unfortunately lead to an increase in prices for our citizens which is not good in this situation that we have in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67212	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs and this current morning are over. I thank you all as well as the Prime Minister and the members of the government. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue at 3:00. MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. The first item today is: - Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on meetings of the European Council held during 2017 The Report submitted by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, will submit a report in accordance with Article 11. Law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. I therefore welcome once again the Prime Minister and ask him to submit an opening statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67214	... and MPs, here today, we have a second chance, immediately replica, that is good, colleague Pernar on a good day, to discuss after the current morning in the context of the legal obligation that the Government has, and that is to report once a year on the meetings of the European Council held in the previous year. [[Specially enabled.]] You know that, in my own initiative, I have modified this practice since the start of this government's mandate with ambition and goal, that every time after the European Council, we are discussing the conclusions of this highest body in the institutions of the European Union, in order to raise the world on European topics and among MPs, what is particularly important in Croatian importance, and that the media are in a more detailed way monitoring the work, in general, of the European Union. I use this opportunity to remember once again, that two days ago, we marked the 26th anniversary of the recognition of the Republic of Croatia and the 20th anniversary of the end of the process... The integration of Croatia's Podunnova, which was marked this time in Ilock, in Gorje Srijem County, because these are very important moments for our history and our recent history, the moment we circled territorial integrity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these were, in my deep conviction, the previous issues and moments, without which all that came over the past two decades could not be realised in the same way, nor could we imagine the situation of being a member of the EU at all. The past year has been extremely interesting and intense when it comes to the dynamics of encounters. All together, we had 11 summit meetings, several formal, 4 formal, several informal, several in the form of Article 50, so on the negotiations on the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union. But this has also been in a political sense for a year which has also produced several interesting results at national level in the EU's large-scale elections. First of all, I think of the victory of Emmanuel Macron in France who practically had no party, nor did he exist as an actor on the French political scene until about a year before the elections when he left the then government and went on a campaign and in some way showed that he wanted to breathe a similar kind of optimism, energy and activity at the level of France and at European Union level with his own rhetoric. At the same time, this was the year in which German Chancellor Merkel won for the fourth time, this time relatively, with a significantly different composition of the Bundestag, but she came on occasion, and here we are in the last few days to reshape the government and do so in the great coalition. The two events undoubtedly marked the national political scene. For us, it is particularly relevant that there has been a change of government in Austria, that there has been a change of government in the Czech Republic. These are all countries that are close to Croatia and where changes that do not matter have occurred. Tomorrow, part of the Croatian government's minister, the state secretary, is going to Italy, which is also expected by two months' elections, and all this tells us about an extremely dynamic political process. And when all this is put into the broader context of that negative United Kingdom referendum a year and a half ago, then together with the BREXIT negotiations, we see how relevant and relevant this year was for the EU. What is particularly important today from the point of view backwards? So on these four European councils that we had and divided into two Presidencies, the first presidency was Maltese, the second Presidency was Estonian. A few important topics have been crystallized. By the logic of things and their geographical position, they put migration on the agenda of the second month, where the new type of contractual relations with the countries of North Africa, countries that are some transitory and some of the countries of origins of the great migration wave, dominated by the logic of things and their geographical position. At the same time during the Maltese presidency, we also had that big meeting in Rome dedicated to the 1960s anniversary of the Treaty of Rome that tried to inhale a kind of optimism in this year compared to a somewhat dreary atmosphere in 2016. And I think that this trail has achieved a very solid success because the meeting was referenced to the fact that at that time in a 27-member format, de facto, reflecting the future EU structure after the end of March 2018 to move on to all those topics that are relevant to the citizens of all EU members. The Estonian Presidency, by logic of things, has put emphasis on what Estonia is very good at, and they are good because they have found one niche of development of digital society, digital economy, digital services. And it feels like such a small country is precisely finding some of those activities that are important for the jobs of the future, which are important for their economy, for the European economy is also finding a way to be recognizable, efficient and where their achievements are also trying to adopt as a model in many other Member States. This second semester added to the social summit organised in Sweden. Sweden is well-known that the European social model may work at a level that is above some other Member States. It does so in a way that this time the Swedish government wanted them to host an informal meeting to discuss column 20 of the principles, so to speak. a social pillar that can contribute to better regulation of social rights at Member State level. He's a non-binding character, but the messages that were sent there I think are useful for all Member States. The last meeting held in December had one of the main topics of permanent structured defence co-operation. This is a topic that has been particularly important for the past few years and has strengthened the EU in the context of the defence community, co-operation with NATO, since most Member States, Member States and one and other organisations, and in this way we have put first the topics that come about in the two-year gaps at the level of heads of state and government. I would like to mention that, at the invitation of the President of the European Parliament, Tajani, who was also here to visit the Croatian Parliament, it seems to me that in May of this year, one of the first members visited by Tajani was Croatia with whom we have a very high quality, correct and friendly relationship, to have an opportunity before the European Parliament at a plenary session in Strasbourg in early February to discuss a topic that is relevant for all members. It is a Croatian view of Europe's future, to contribute to a debate he launched as Parliament's president. Today, he spoke on the same subject in Strasbourg, Leo Varadkar Prime Minister of Ireland, so that we have the opportunity to be among the first to give views of the European future, and after a week we will have the opportunity to have the Vice-President of the Government of Marija Pejcinović, Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic and I in Brussels, to meet with the entire College of the European Commission and a special meeting with Commission President Juncker where we will put on the table all topics relevant to the Republic of Croatia in all possible aspects of our membership and thus send certain messages of preparation for Croatia for the future European Union presidency, which is as you know, foreseen in the first half of 2020. Croatia has also paid its contribution to the European Fund for Africa on migration this year. I think that message is extremely important, that we have shown the principle of solidarity in practice intended for the region of North Africa and for the horn of Africa. In this way, we also contributed to the participation of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Affairs at the European Union Summit and Africa, which was held at the end of November. When it comes to defence cooperation, I would like to clarify that this permanent structured co-operation in the area of defence and security is a new one in that domain. It builds on a global strategy for foreign and security policy in a very specific way. She's got a shortcut to PESCO. So this is a shortcut you will meet when you follow the development of this area of cooperation within the EU. It shall comprise 25 Member States. So it was a matter of selecting enhanced cooperation. This is one of the examples where Croatia sends a strong message that it wants to be among those members who want deeper integration and want closer co-operation. A total of 17 areas of this cooperation, and Croatia chose 5 areas where it wants to work more closely with the members of the Union at this stage of initialisation. The first area is to help in natural disasters where I believe we have some experience and where we have already shown ourselves to good neighbours, and sometimes we have been recipients of other members' assistance. Then on the deployment of forces on military mobility, on logistics and on cybersecurity. These are areas which, above all, have been assessed by the Ministry of Defence as specific aspects of cooperation in which we want to build our partnership with other Member States. Only the United Kingdom, Denmark and Malta do not participate in this cooperation. It is also important to note that in December we also discussed the establishment of a European Defence Fund with two frameworks. One is research. The second is the development of the capacity of the European Industrial Development Programme in the area of defence. And today you have had the opportunity to hear the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence as important that each Member State, and then Croatia, in this context, puts emphasis on its own defence industry, on its export options, on the possibility of placing and the type of products and goods on the markets of other Member States or third countries. And so it seems to me that from this experience of the first year and a few days of government work after we brought in the new National Security Strategy, the Homeland Security Act, we entered among the first members to participate in the PESCU, sent our forces into a series of operations both in Europe and worldwide. So not only the United Nations, NATO and the European Union. Here's a recent visit from the Vice-President of the Government of Lithuania and Poland where our troops are almost 300 of them. We are sending messages that we are active and engaged in the field of European security and defence. It is particularly important that, at the level of the European Council, regular water and consultation with the NATO Secretary-General who took part in the European Council where we have evoked the content of the declaration between the two organisations from June 2016. In particular, the areas of hybrid threats to Member States, participation in complementarity in missions and operations, cybersecurity and defence development plans, joint exercises and the building of defence capacities of partners. In this respect, it is important that the defence dimension is installed in everything that is the key to the implementation of the global strategy for the European Union's foreign and security policy and, on this side, we can assess that the conclusions of the European Council were expected in December in view of everything that has happened at the Council's level of defence and the Foreign Affairs Council in preparation for these meetings. A special new one this year was also the initiative of the President of the European Council of Tusk, who, as you know, has been elected to chair this other two-and-a-half year of this five-year term of office of the Commission and Parliament in a way that has prepared a document called the Leaders' Agenda, and this is an interesting new methodology of work where I am chairing the European Council in a different way than we have so far, so we usually rely mainly on proposals from the European Commission or documents coming from different Council formations, now he proposes some documents directly as chair of the European Council to be the subject of meetings of Heads of State and Government. One of these topics, not so often raised to this level, was the topic of culture, science and education that we discussed at the last European Council in December, and during our informal meeting in Goteborg, where intensive work in the field of promotion of European identity and the creation of a project of European universities would be a kind of network. So, you wouldn't be creating new European universities by modeling in Florence or... There would already be networks of existing universities, which would further contribute to mobility, to the acquisition of qualifications for young people, to the kind of dynamicization of all the things that Erasmus has brought to Europeans in 30 years of practice, today Erasmus plus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's a new initiative that is currently under discussion, which is to try to introduce a national level of learning obligation for two sides of the language. One excellent initiative, I think, should also be taken into account in Croatia. The countries of our size need to take advantage of such trends to get out of their own education system of young people who are able to monitor their responsibilities at European level and engage in the labour market of half a billion people with qualifications that are very important. And therefore we are also at a meeting in Gothenburg which was dedicated to young people. With us was Minister Pavić, talking about a series of activities and our active employment measures, everything we want to see as a result of educational reform and particularly good indicators in reducing the number of unemployed young people. In 2013, by 2017, we reduced this percentage from more than 47,8% to 26% of unemployed young people, which I think is a big and important achievement. The year is just beginning the European Year of Cultural Heritage, which is also important in the context of identity, in the context of the recognition of the specificities of every nation, each Member State. And that is why in this year, everything that is the wealth of the Member States and the Union itself will be affirmed in different ways. About migration, maybe just a few words. What is most important is the reform of the EU-wide asylum system, primarily the internal dimension of migration policy that has brought a series of problems and difficulties, and has had an open and influential impact on the political processes at national level. Since 2015, the migration crisis has affected mood change, including the choice of European voters in the different elections we have had the opportunity to meet, i.e. Their results over the past few years. Probably the most visible influence certainly in Germany where an alternative for Germany to this election had no MPs, now has '92. Or three even. These are questions that were on the agenda. It is important for Croatia to be informed by the system of our commitments. We've taken the obligation to accept 1583 persons in a moving and moving system. It is about the transfer of persons who are either in Greece or Italy and persons who are located in Turkey. For now, this dynamic is not the responsibility of Croatian institutions, but rather the simple technology of this work is going quite slowly. Only 81 people were transferred, 60 from Greece, 21 from Italy, while only 40 people or 7 Syrian families were moved from Turkey. All of this, of course, does not endanger in any way any economic or security aspect of the message of solidarity that I think is important for Croatia to send as a responsible member of the Union. For us, of course, this topic is also relevant in terms of preparation for meeting the criteria for entering the Schengen system. You know, in the negotiations, we got an envelope of 120 million euros in total. It is practically absorbed in a percentage above 98%, the technical readiness and equipment of the Croatian police at all external borders has been raised. The involvement of our officers as well. You've been following this activation for the past few weeks in eastern Croatia where we have so-called The green border. New facilities, the presence of troops from not only Vukovar-Srijem County but also other counties that ensure safety and prevent illegal border crossings. On this side, it is our ambition to meet the criteria for entering Schengen in close cooperation with the European Commission during 2019. So that everything that can be called technical criteria is met and that there is then only a political decision at Member State level. On this side, it is important to know that Bulgaria and Romania have been in the Union since 2007. However, there is still no political consensus that one and the other members become Schengen members, and make sure that this is the one that Bulgaria is now presides from January 1st and that Romania will have the presidency in the first half of 2019. A few words about BREXIT which objectively burdens European debates. I still think and at no time do I miss to say that it was one of the worst political assessments ever made by the British prime minister to organise a referendum at all, and it has already been in membership for almost 40 years. It is a decision that also meant a loss for the United Kingdom which means no doubt and loss for the EU, that I am not only talking about budgetary aspects, security aspects, aspects of global, free trade between which the United Kingdom was one of the members who was the champion of free trade and, of course, its importance in economic terms as members of the G7, as permanent members of the Security Council, and through all the processes that they are going through at national level. All now comes down to three important topics of this first part of the negotiations on the United Kingdom's exit, the financial aspect, the aspect of freedom of movement. the rights of citizens of the United Kingdom in other members of the Union and the rights of EU citizens in the United Kingdom and, ultimately, an agreement with Ireland, given that the regime of relations between Northern Ireland and Ireland is completely changed. On the other hand, these three topics were the subject of negotiations conducted by Michael Barnier, or British representative Davids. What is now shown is that, of course, the financial commitments for the United Kingdom will be far, far greater than what those who advocated their date spoke to them during the referendum campaign, and ultimately, the account in the years ahead, which will last several years after membership, will be overwhelming. And even from these certain statements from some and former and current British political leaders, you can see how much most of them essentially regret the outcome of the referendum. I would especially like to point out that Croatia was first present at this December European Council at the meeting of Heads of State and the Government of the Euro Summit. So it was an opportunity for me to clarify the goals and ambitions of the Republic of Croatia, which, as you know in late October, the Government in cooperation with the Croatian National Bank prepared a strategy for the introduction of the euro to say that we are the country that launched the accession process of the Stability and Co-ordination Treaty in economic and monetary union governance. So in the Government you will discuss this document and this item of the agenda here in the Croatian Parliament. And let us say that our wish is to continue to meet the necessary criteria for joining the euro area in a way that we are in a position to be part of the European exchange rate mechanism by 2020. ... By 2020 and afterwards in the context of the National Reform Programme, in the context of the Annual Growth Survey, in the context of everything we do to implement structural reforms of stable and responsible public finances, fiscal consolidation, reduction of public debt, reduction of deficits for Croatia to meet the Maastricht criteria and thus, according to my modest assessment, at the end of the term of office of the next Croatian Government, meet the criteria for membership in the euro. [[You don't understand.]] This will certainly be a topic that we will discuss much in the coming years, and it is good that we have launched a public debate and where we are using the experiences of the Member States, including those of our neighbouring countries that have met those objectives. Also a few words about our preparations for the 2020 presidency and a few words about enlargement policy. Unfortunately, in 2014, Jean Claude Juncker made it quite clear to Commissioner Hahn that it is not quite realistic that there should be some new enlargements in the mandate of this Commission. And that fact actually came true. It has, in many ways, slowed down certain reform dynamics in some countries, because when you get and prioritize such a clear message then from the optics of those who have to face elections and a kind of test in front of voters are not always in a position to engage those European reforms equally as others. But lately, we have been feeling signals from the European Commission that in the 2nd month will come up with a new enlargement strategy where in a certain way, we are trying to make up for these dynamics and send a message of encouragement to the countries above all Southeast Europe. On this side, Croatia believes that there should continue to be those basic criteria, which is the criterion of individual merits of each country, meeting the criteria but supporting, above all, the countries that are in our neighbourhood to speed up their reform process and on this side we will make our contribution to this new Enlargement Strategy. When it comes to the Presidency of the Croatian European Union, it is as you know in the first half of 2020. We're in what's-his-name. 18-month-old three. So before us are Romania and Finland. So we will have a joint programme of Romania, Finland and Croatia. The German presidency follows Croatia. It's also important information that we know who inherits us in that role. And on this side, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs as a co-ordination body at the government level has prepared an Action Plan which includes all aspects of the presidency of the basic principles of the organisation of this work, human resources management, the preparation of all our not only ministers but all other levels and the configuration of the Council for the participation of the presidency, which means that each of these colleagues in any sector must be thoroughly identified by the legislative process, content and be able to lead these meetings in a way that is meaningful and that shows more than 100% knowledge of these files. For Croatia, it will be an opportunity for us to give an additional signal to the enlargement policy. Our 2020 will be exactly 20 years after the Zagreb summit, the great event that you remember was in November 2000 when the perspective for the Southeast European countries opened and in which we were in some way, with the support of France who led this presidency and President Chirac, we were given the opportunity to be where we are today. And it will, in my opinion, continue this dynamic which Bulgaria also wants in May this year to make enlargement policy, primarily Southeast Europe seek to integrate as quickly and quality as possible into the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67215	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you. [[/Invadica Plenkovic: Here are 30 minutes past, just now. Thank you.]] We have ten replicas, first reported by a respected colleague, Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67216	Dear Prime Minister Plenkovic. You said that you and your colleagues from the European Commission discussed the protection of the EU's external borders, but our country is not in a position to protect the EU's external borders but, unfortunately, not its own from the constant incursions on the north side by the Slovenian police. However, the focus of this debate I would like to draw on the topic of Oilics. Namely, oil workers have not received salary this month, it is uncertain when they will receive it, whether they will receive it and unfortunately you as a government have done nothing to oversee the work of the company. Her administration or managers pay their bonuses, give each other coffee prizes, contract harmful contracts or harmful jobs, the DORH does nothing. The result is a social disaster, the result of a restructuring plan that will leave at least a thousand and a half workers out of work and, in fact, according to a new construction plan on the island next to the Uljanik, where luxury hotels are planned, it is obvious that something else is planned there, not a continuation of shipbuilding. You and your European partners didn't discuss this issue because it doesn't matter to you. You will say that you did not know about the problem of non-payment of salaries or the inequitableness of the Oilers, so you did not discuss it at 12 months, but it just shows how uninformed you are about the acuteity and actuality of the problem that was known to occur in advance. Croatia has intelligence services, I believe that the failure to pay thousands of workers is a threat to national security because these people all have more or less loans, they have monetary obligations that they have to pay, and they have no place to go. Unfortunately, as we can see, the government is just laying down its shoulders and doing nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67217	Would you like a reply to the replica? Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67218	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pernar, you obviously didn't have a chance today to ask a question on the current morning, so use the presence of me and my colleague here in the Parliament on this subject, but this topic is somewhat related to the European context. And it is good to ask that because the whole process of restructuring Croatian shipyards has basically lasted and in some ways been realised in the context before our membership and realised in the first years of membership when it comes to state aid. Unlike your position on which you give the public and conclude that the Croatian Government does not know what is going on there, I will assure you and argue that we have met several times with the representatives of the Oilics, that last week the government made a decision on the guarantee, that the intensive contact of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Commissioner in the European Commission is that these guarantees are approved, that we do everything just to keep doing what its basic task is, and that is to be a shipyard that played an important role in the restructuring of the 3rd May years ago. That's why some kind of discourse we don't follow, we don't know or how someone said today that we're ready to wash our hands, no, vice versa. Informed, addressed, in dialogue with the mayor with the mayor and I said today and with the Primorje-Gorski County not only with Istria, deeply engaged at the level of relevant ministries we do what the government is responsible for such a type of company after all we have been through in the restructuring of Croatian shipyards is doing, and yet everything is in line with national regulations and with the legal property of the EU. As for Slovenia and the ambition of you and your party to take the military road there, you act like... /The speaker speaks English./...about what you look like, and it's hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67219	Thank you. Let's move on, second replica, dear colleague Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67220	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Your Honor, Prime Minister. You said in your statement that you submitted a report after each European Council to bring the Croatian Parliament and the public to Europe, and that is commendable. But by submitting the Annual report on the work of the European Council, I think it is a good opportunity to also discuss the political positioning of Croatia in the EU. However, in the European Council, there are people who at least formally do not make decisions at EU level, but have powers about authority in their own countries and are the real decision-makers who give instructions to their ministers. So I will list several of the initiatives that marked Croatia's position in the EU this year, just some of them. One of them is sending a special statement to the EU's common position on human rights, which it represents in international forums. The position Croatia sent through its statement has put her in a position to be perceived as the EU's most conservative state. Our statement was interpreted more conservatively than the one given by Poland and Hungary, and only those countries, as far as I know, gave a statement. The second initiative is "Three Seas", is the Government behind the political objectives and initiatives that are slightly unclear to date, is the Government behind such activities, at least raising a lot of anxiety in Berlin and Brussels and in some other EU countries? The third element I wanted to mention is the issue of Jerusalem and Croatia's vote on Middle Eastern issues. Croatia has always been part of the consensus of the prevailing number of EU members, this time refused to be and took a position such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia and some other countries. Is that the direction the Croatian government wants to position Croatia in the EU? Intruder president: Thank you, colleague Klisovic. Time's up. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67221	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67222	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Klisovic, here are the flash answers to all three topics. And as for the first aspect, therefore, of the EU's statement in preparation for the Human Rights Council in addition to some of the comments made by the internal ones in Croatia, I did not notice that any of these were particularly problematic that this statement changed the position of the EU on the occasion of discussions on a number of countries and thematic assemblies on the Human Rights Council itself. As for the three seas initiative, you've been in this business as long as I have, and you know that we've been trying to affirm this type of axis of the Baltic – the Adriatic in a series of times over the past 20 and a few years. Look at a little road infrastructure that would move east of Germany, so you'll see that Route 65 exists through the territory of Germany, Austria, and then Finland on the road towards us doesn't exist. She doesn't exist. My first meeting in the European Parliament as an observer was exactly Route 65 here to be quite precise. The cooperation between the Adriatic, the Black Sea and the Baltic is one initiative that has certain historical connotations and ideas, but it is useful because it is especially useful for Croatia to cooperate with countries that are close to us, similar to language, cultural, and in economic terms, it can help us especially when a LNG terminal is built on Krk to help in a stronger positioning and on Europe's political and economic, energy map. So, on that side, we need to watch how to pull a plus out of the initiative. As for Jerusalem, the EU did not have a consistent or coherent view of New York. Our two-state policy doesn't change in any way. We felt that this initiative in the UN General Assembly was not necessary after America unilaterally made a decision that...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67223	Thank you. We're going to the third line, dear colleague Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67224	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, before asking the question, one small a correction, for instance. You said that in Germany, actually Chancellor Merkel is ready for a major coalition, but it is still quite far from being realised in the SPD there is still a rather serious dilemma about whether it will happen or not. I mean, at the end of the kings, there are still a few rounds of conversation in the SPD itself about it. My question actually refers to BREXIT, the part you were talking about BREXIT. There are many comments from politicians in the UK that are serious, which are less serious about the need for another referendum, i.e. there are even voices that talk about maybe giving up BREXIT. Some of the European Commission's voices also speak of the fact that this door is also theoretically open. So my question to you is actually whether it was discussed on the Council and what kind of position the Government of the Republic of Croatia is on the possibility of giving up BREXIT and how much you think it's real in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67225	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67226	Thank you very much. That's exactly what they're talking about, that's why I brought it up. However, it is my impression that there is more speculation about it now than is serious. The Institute of the Referendum is an important democratic institute to be respected. I was a witness in 2005 when the French said no to the Constitutional Treaty. The topic that rose immediately in public is after seeing the result is whether we can fix something here. But especially in large countries, one simple message prevails. The people have decided. Once the people decide, it's very difficult to get that wheel back. The truth has examples right in Ireland, Ireland twice held a referendum on the Nice Treaty and thus did something unusual. If I were asked today for a political assessment of how realistic this is in the next 14 months because they have decreed by law that March 29th is the day when the United Kingdom is no longer a member of the Union I don't think it's too real. So the current prime minister is carrying with her the burden she received in the amannet to say so by the prime minister who made a mistake on me. I see the leader of the Labourist not particularly thrilled, and the one who lobbied to go out would be another referendum to be the result of an even stronger approximately. So what Tony Blaire is saying seems nice and mature, but I'm afraid he's not the one who decides anymore. So at this point and given the content of the talks which is now focused essentially on the technical details of making the contract itself under Article 50 on exit, I think the process has moved on. If even in some unexpected scenario, that's what happened, I think a lot of people would be relieved, but I'm not sure it's real today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67227	Fourth replica, dear fellow Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The prime minister is here before the issue, of course, that Croatian citizens and the public are most interested in the effects of all these meetings, all of which you had at EU level which means reflect on the Republic of Croatia. Of course we are interested in security, but how will we be safe since we became EU members, two-thirds of Croatia unfortunately, here we all are empty. So immediately automatically Croatia is much more vulnerable to its security, because territory without people is simply not safe territory, the state is not only territory, but people as well. So we do not control what we should control, regardless of the 1972 UN conventions, as appropriate to the exclusive economic belt, and even the EU's recommendations to protect and control the Adriatic Sea, not only in terms of fishing and major damage to the Republic of Croatia, but also in archaeological sites, ecological sites, natural sites and everything we can ecologically draw from the Adriatic, we have not protected. We're absolutely safe from protecting our territory, and that's why we're in huge damage. Only because of the fish calculations are because of fishing in our belt because we don't control it, mostly Italian fleets between 2 and 3 billion kunas. The fact is that here, I ask you, here's what the economic belt is about what you've done and what it means about basics, means security measures and these are the Croats in BiH. What you have done in this matter to survive these people in the Council of Europe and, of course, to enter, say our neighbours of Serbs, and we must, Serbia, but we must know that we must also look at our own interests, that we must not allow Serbia to be left behind by Croatian defenders at trial because we know in the p-registration negotiations that, in the judiciary chapter, Croatian defenders are left at the mercy of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67229	Comrade Bulj, thank you. The Prime Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67230	As for this latest issue, enlargement issues, BiH support issues and negotiations with Serbia. You know very well how many occasions we have raised the question so far, we can say the legitimacy of the Law on the jurisdiction of the Serbian state authorities to prosecute war crimes which Serbia has in a certain way extended its jurisdiction to the area of the former SFRY, seeking to install into its national legal regulations all that existed and exists in the statute of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and thereby not only violates the sovereignty of states, neighbouring states, but also EU member states. We have held this argument for the last few years at various forums, both in the European Parliament and the European Council. And as for the negotiations themselves, Chapter 23, it's one of the aspects that we will follow very closely and... Serbia in the process of war crimes and you saw these recent Ovcara verdicts were closely followed by the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as BiH is concerned, we are still standing by that strategic political decision that we are both the biggest friend and ally and neighbour of BiH. We are the only ones who can support and speed up this process with our own role, but in a way in which all three constituent nations are equal especially when it comes to the Election Law in BiH. As far as the economic belt is concerned, the government has accepted a thorough, very detailed report within the deadline that I believe you have read. The public, I suppose, knows that, the secretary of state explained it on one of the shows the other day. Only two aspects of an economic belt that are not part of a protected ecological and fishing zone are the construction of artificial islands and the use of sea power to produce energy. These are the only two aspects left. When and how we will continue to put this topic on the agenda, there will be a government decision and parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67231	Thank you, we're going to the fifth line, dear colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67232	Dear Prime Minister, you spoke of the European Council's position on migration, or migration policy. Here's something I'm going to ask you about. Just a few figures, in 2015, we had about a million immigrants in Europe, '16 about the same thing, '17 much less, all I'm gonna say is about 150 grand, if I'm not wrong. However, we have one problem that is actually growing, regardless of the number of migrants falling, which is the number of killed immigrants who are killed on their way to Europe, mostly on the Mediterranean and that route from Libya, or Tunisia, mainly from Libya via Malta to Italy. In 2014, there were about 3200 of them, '15, 3700, '16. 5,000 and last year, despite the fact that there were 6X fewer immigrants in Europe, there were over 3,000 people killed. It's one question just to see a little bit, something is done in this field but obviously it's not working enough because that number is growing in relation to the number of people coming to Europe. And the second question, the issue of integration. Is it said that these about 3 million immigrants who have come to Europe for the past few years have integrated, are there any data, what is happening with this, and is there any policy related to it? And lastly, I would have warned here, and perhaps your one comment I don't know if the European Council has talked about it, in Syria, military operations have increased again, and the province of Idlib is at this very moment a great fear, and it's almost 100 thousand square miles of several million people, and there's a great danger that we have a very new immigration wave towards Europe, and that millions of people will emigrate from that space. Are we ready for this briefly?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67233	The answer is... Here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67234	Thank you very much. As for fellow respected Zekanovic, unfortunately the number of dead in the Mediterranean, the number is enormous, it is certainly too great to be about this mid-Mediterranean route, whether it is about crossing from the Turkish coast to the Greek islands. The EU and all Member States are strengthening their Frontex coast guard mechanisms, all competent agencies with mutual support and co-operation with countries, coastal states of North Africa, all mechanisms that those who smuggle these people do not succeed in their intention. Unfortunately, Mare Nostrum has in a certain way become a large tomb of those desperate to come to the EU where they would have a chance for a better life. On this side, Croatia is in a certain way due to the geography it is, and that is, above all, Italy ahead of us in some way spared such situations directly. However, as a member of the Union, we have therefore given these funds for this mutual fund for Africa, because we believe that we must contribute and we will continue to do so within our policy, which is, above all, part of what we call development policy and attempt to solve the problem at the source. When it comes to integration, Member States are different from each other. First of all, there is a huge difference in the number and countries that eventually ended most of these refugees or migrants. Some countries are more open, some are less open. And that part I mentioned in the speech, he was influencing, at the very end of the line on election results. As for the crisis in Syria and the war in Syria, of course any new destabilisation in the Middle East can cause chain reactions4e and there is the key to the agreement between the EU and Turkey. The role of Lebanon and Jordan is important, they all have a few... The refugee in her territory, and for Croatia it is a matter of strategic importance that we take care of in all aspects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67235	Next replica, dear colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67236	Thank you very much, esteemed Prime Minister. It's a good thing you heard in these meetings that European identity is being built on education and culture, so that's basically logical. There's nothing else to build on. It's not going to be built on cell phones or on train parks, bank offices or political parties. However, on the other hand, I would ask you a question, for which reason Croatia, if you are already in principle supporting such efforts, persistently, reduces separations both for education and for culture. So I'd like to point out, I hope you understand, we're not talking about quantity, we're talking about quality. We're talking ratio. So, in the 2018 budget, it's been reduced in percentages, there's been a decrease in the allocations that go towards education, so, the Ministry of Education, Science, and at the same time there's a reduction in the separations that go towards culture. Is it just because it's generally your party's trend, to insist year after year, to reduce education isolation, and now we already have less than 3% of GDP, although those countries you've been sitting with there have an isolation rate of up to 8%. Or maybe that's why you want to further humiliate your coalition partner, to whom you hand over that ministry, and now here they are, you're giving even less money than you might have given, if he were your minister. Because the money you gave to some ministries has been greatly increased, both quantitatively and in percentage, and there has been money and for defense, there has been money for health care, even for some old debts. So here we see that there's money, so for those phones and for what it's called, a car park renovation. So I'm wondering, is it, then, these meetings Do you attend, act on you only formally or in content? [[It's time, thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67237	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67238	... as some kind of package to compose in the context of what were topics, which are rarely on the European Council, the topic of culture, the years of cultural heritage and the focus on education, on science, on the network of European universities, with what we do at national level. [[Specially enabled.]] We can play with percentages, in absolute terms, and you know it very well, if you have read the budget, the separation for education and science is greater than they were last year. In fact, we have appointed Mr. Antičić's special secretary of state, who has had great experience in excellent results, the withdrawal of European funds, as director of Ruđer Boskovic Institute, to withdraw even more resources from science and education, together with other people in the Ministry of Science and Education. It is from this portfolio and from the portfolio that we can say so freely, that digitisation is a series of strategic projects that Croatia is trying to use in this financial perspective. So here's your replacement thesis that we're trying to reduce resources for education and science, I'm simply rejecting because they're incorrect. The same thing is with the culture budget, for the Croatian government, for the Croatian state, and then for the identity issue, everything that means investing in Croatian culture, and what can contribute, to any segment, activities covered by the Ministry of Culture, we will seek to support and increase the resources, as far as possible, bearing in mind that we are in such circumstances, I am glad that you mentioned health care, because no other government is in the same year, the rebalancing has a billion and 500 million kuna allocated for earlier healthcare debts, as plus. And even in the end, she ended up in a surplus. Well, then, you do the math, did you want to say the criticism or the compliment?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67239	We're going to the next line, dear colleague Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67240	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Croatian Government. I put a replica, almost at the end of your presentation, because I expected that you might look back, in these, half an hour on an important topic, which formally, hasn't been to the European Council meetings yet, but it's easy to see, that it will be there in a reasonable period, even a question, whether we will have some of your reports before. It is, in fact, a question of a dark cloud, which has supposed itself over the EU, which is the question of initiation, so-called. nuclear options, i.e. activation of art. 7 above the breach, i.e. the danger of breaching the EU's fundamental values, over Poland. And the question, of course, is an extremely important question for you, what kind of attitude will you have, that is, the Republic of Croatia in the upcoming decision, because of course, it will also be on the Council, before, at the beginning of the procedure, and only later on, possibly on the European Council. But, of course, that the decision of the Republic of Croatia will not be made against the Council without your consent to that question. So a very important question, you have also talked about the countries that are friendly to us, which we are working with, but here we are also talking about a regime that is currently in the opinion of the European Commission but also of the European Parliament, that we are not talking to my profession so to people who, I am speaking from the point of view of constitutional law and in which there is a great consensus on the violation of fundamental rights. What is your position, what will be the position of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67241	Replication response, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67242	Thank you very much President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Representative Podolnjak, this topic has not been on the European Council yet, not formally or informally, and has not been as much known to me as at a Council meeting at the ministerial level for several logical reasons. First, what you say is a nuclear option, that it is an informal slang to apply Article 7, whether paragraph 1 or paragraph 2 is a matter which should suspend the right to vote in a Member State which, of course, has never happened before. I've had a lot of informal conversations done on that topic with my colleagues and I must tell you that no one is crying out to articulate very precisely and clearly their position. The only one who talks about this is Deputy Prime Minister, Vice-President of the Commission Mr TImmermans, in charge of issues related to this legal aspect and dealing with this and who in a certain way led the entire initiative of the past, and we can now say freely, it takes some 2 years, about that process at Commission level. Poland has a new prime minister from a few weeks ago. She received a three-month dialogue during the Bulgarian Presidency on the subject to fix certain segments related to topics as you have said first and foremost to the functioning of the judiciary as well as some other laws. It is in Poland to offer solutions to what has been signalled. At this point, we are only talking about the risk, so Article 7(1), which would not even come to the European Council under its procedure, would remain at the level of ministers. At this point, we expect to find a solution that would avoid such a situation because after such a vote it is very difficult to go back. And Poland is taking care of the country, regardless of which power was Croatian friendly, which played a key role in our accession process in the second half of 2011, and probably none of us would like to be brought into a situation and that in a certain way it must vote which later, wanted me to or did not define the long term.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67243	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Beus-Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67244	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, at the very end of your presentation, you mentioned the preparation of the Republic of Croatia for the coming, taking over the post of EU President, but I would like to hear something about whether we have defined the priorities of our presidency, whether we have begun to bring them into line with other countries that are in line for the presidency before us. Here's Bulgaria now taking over the presidency, you said which countries, they still have to do it before we do it. In the meantime, we are taking over the Presidency and the Council of Europe. I have the impression that we have not played a very active role in this regard but that we have put that story somewhere on the side because I would like that part of the ideas that are in circulation at this time in the Council of Europe and the events that are taking place there from relations with the Russian Federation to the current situation of relations between the Council of Europe and Turkey, in a way that we also worry here as our concern. And that in the Council of Europe we have a stronger mission and then we are even more capacitated to this upcoming presidency. In any case, I would like to know what we plan to do not only to do our duty and position as EU presidents in a correct and quality manner but also what we plan to do to get the benefits for the Republic of Croatia out of that position. What are these policies that we would like to affirm in favour of the Republic of Croatia as one of the newer or newest EU members, to increase our visibility and on the other hand to increase our influence in the EU? This lavage between ideas called the high-rise Baltic-Adriatic or on the other side of the Merkel-Macron axis is not very good, I wish we were more decadent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67245	Prime Minister, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67246	It's not an esteemed colleague, Beus-Richembergh, sort of like you say lavating or it's a choice between the Merkel-Macron axis and what the three must have in it. But it's in this case for our chairmanship's priorities in a subordinate manner. I'll tell you as a man who, well, come on, for at least 25 years, reads the programs of all possible, or past presidencies, it's about 50 presidencies. They all have 5 points, 1st point concerns economics, growth, the economy, the internal market, the development of what is today or the banking union or the deepening of economic and monetary union. And surely as one of the members of the 3rd and we won't be able to get around what's important, which is the heart of European policies, especially what we will be at the head of in the first half of 2020, when if everything goes right, we must come more or less at the moment when negotiations on the new financial framework will be concluded. That'll be the main topic. So in the next 2 years, when you look at what is the essence of European policies will be the negotiations on the budget, especially since we have cca. 10% of the European distribution on this framework that has now come from the United Kingdom. You know that the budgets are about 140, 145, 150 million euros a year, then calculate the 7-year-old framework that comes to you for about a billion, now this calculation has to be something different and there's a debate about who's actually going to make up for what's going to be missing. We will certainly put on the agenda topics that have a very clearly founded desire and for a better connection, therefore, what you are called... in all possible aspects of transport, energy and infrastructure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is very important for Croatia, with an external political aspect for us, and you know best to do what you know, and we know our neighbourhood, where Southeast Europe will be high on the list of external political priorities The rest of you are free to say, the mandatory characters we're going to have to put in the presidency, and these 3 points per me are the key. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67247	Thank you. We now move to a club debate, the first is SDP's Club of Representatives and Honored counterpart Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67248	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. And thank the Prime Minister for his truly exhaustive report. As a matter of principle... I mean really like my colleague Klisovic, I think we should commend the fact that, indeed, you came here regularly and talked to us about the meetings you participated in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would, in view of SDP's Club of Representatives on this subject, actually, touch a few points, others will believe covered colleagues and colleagues in individual debates. First, I would start with a topic of migration, which were actually, which was kind of a pervasive subject all last year. For this, for perfectly understandable reasons, there is a huge interest and I think that, in fact, for something and a clue to the issue of colleagues of Zekanovic, referred to you, I think it is perfectly justified, that, if we say, that this topic should be discussed more and more frequently in Croatia. 1583 people should be given asylum and should come to the Republic of Croatia. I think we need to ask the question, is Croatia ready for that. We talked about different and you yourself, after all, commented on how different countries have integration programmes, which are very successful. And my impression is that what I'm worried about is, in fact, in all this, that we in that area are standing pretty bad. And without me getting into negativity, some kind of, or being a bad prophet, I think it's really important that we open up a public debate on integration programmes in some perspective and for these 1583 people. And I believe that in some future, that number will not remain the same, but will only increase, focus and look at those countries that have more successful integration programmes. I also think that the principle of solidarity, in terms of resolving the refugee crisis, and we have already said from this place, that it has not actually been consistently implemented. We believe that the way the EU has solved the refugee crisis, so above all in Turkey and very generous financing, just so that we do not look at refugees in the streets and squares of European cities, I believe that in some way we have failed European values. I think it was one big test for Europe and I'm afraid Europe just dropped it. And I would like, in the future, when we talk about the principle of solidarity, to really be consistent with it, whether we are talking about this solidarity from the perspective of what solidarity means for the Social Democrats, whether we are talking about what we call Christian solidarity. I think it can lead us to at least a similar place, that is, some consensus about it. Another major topic in these reports was the issue of digital Europe. There is good information, therefore, in preparation for this debate and ultimately in the last 6 months, during the Estonian Presidency, one, namely many interesting data, but one of those who remained quite impressive to me, is the fact that, according to some estimates, 90% of future jobs and future jobs, will seek at least the most basic level of digital literacy. And according to the data we currently have, i.e. that is, the European Commission's data, around 44% of EU citizens, does not even have basic digital literacy. Anyone who deals with social sciences and knows something about distributions and statistics can educationally conclude that the number, these 44% of EU citizens, is not evenly distributed to the EU. In fact, we also have very specific data on this matter. And here, in fact, I'm aiming and I'm going to say explicitly now that when we look at Croatia, I don't think in any way we can be satisfied with the level of digital literacy at the most basic levels. Yes, this government is and it would be unfair to say that it is different, it has also put emphasis on the degree of scholarship, for which it has allocated 180 million kunas and we are talking about introducing IT into primary schools. But I think that in this digital transformation, we really need to set a much stronger pace. The debates that we, in our society, have on digitalization, digital society, I think they are in no way at all at the level of what is waiting for us. Among other things in the action plan, for a digital transformation, one of the points is, for example, that EU countries, i.e. the European Commission, that we should determine, just one example I will point out, we should also identify some positions that include ethical positions, for example, according to artificial intelligence. Did we talk in Croatia about artificial intelligence? In Croatia, we have problems in the most basic talks on human intelligence, and about the art that we are not talking about, it is indeed, in our public debates, the question of artificial intelligence, indeed limited to the discussion of the latest film in the field of science fiction who has looked at the cinema. Unfortunately, but I'm saying that's something I think we should change. Another important, another important element was the digitisation of public administration. Once again, when we talk about e-citizens, I think that, so I've heard an immense amount of contentment that dissatisfactions with this system. The satisfaction comes mainly from the fact that here are the citizens finally able to solve some of the papers by registering and simply getting them, and that number is increasing, but still not increasing by enough topic. We're not very far from 2015 when we introduced this system, I don't think we should be satisfied with that. I will repeat, the pace at which digital transformation is discussed in other Member States is much more dynamic. The topics still discussed were, for example, Internet neutrality. I'd like to ask a question as to how we're going to determine ourselves by that. I think the EU is very clear, where America, or the United States, has abolished Internet neutrality, the EU has committed itself to safeguarding it. But I repeat, we are the EU and if we are behind in these things and the Union lags behind these things. So in the area of legal frameworks that are also highlighted as one important item in the plan, I think that we are also drastically late and somehow again without, from this perspective, being only critical, I would still like to constructively suggest that these may be some topics that may be sought out by consensus, which can be found around and find a consensus at the end of the end of the assembly there are people who are dealing with this topic, who are not amateurs in it, and I think I would suggest that such people end up reaching out at the end. And before I move on to another topic, I would only briefly touch on the issues of taxation in the matter of digital society. So we've been looking at terms like blockchains or crypts lately, taking up more and more space in our media, completely justified. I'm part of it, and there's been some talk in this assembly about it. I think it would be very good, then, if we'd been anticipating trends and not following trends. And that, otherwise, the anti-cipulation of trends is the same thing that is highlighted in this report that you gave us, and then in that sense again, it would be very good if, say, the Ministry of Finance or our tax administration had some of these trends been anticipated and not that we were determined by all of these things by the post-festum. As far as the questions of the leaders who mentioned questions of European identity are concerned, it is very interesting that the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, on the other hand of the Assembly, and I only held the first in the series, just recently the first in the "I European" series we actually stepped towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, according to the student population, we are talking about this particular issue of European identity. I think I'll be, what you've actually brought us, this idea, to dynamic the creation or strengthening of that identity of a European one, right through the perspective of science and education, I think it'll be very interesting for the students, and they'll certainly be glad to have it passed on to them. Again, there are questions that need to be opened here, and that is, a little bit problematic to me, however, that, as members of the academic community, in the end, when I'm not in politics, it encourages the fact that such an emphasis has been placed on science and education, as well as this idea of learning another foreign language, i.e., two sides of the language from the beginning. I'm a little skeptical about realisation. Science is a cancer of the early Croatian society and a question of some kind of education. And we've been breaking down for years around the education system and science. We attack and look back at things we shouldn't. And then when we talk about how we can strengthen and contribute to the strengthening of European identity, I simply cannot help but be a little skeptical about it. But I'm saying the initiative is for every commendation and I believe we'll all have a chance to get involved in its realization. The end of this exhibition, I would like, in fact, to dedicate to something opened by my colleague Klisovic and my colleague Beus, and these are questions and political positioning of Croatia within the Union on the one hand and the issue of our presidency on the other. You point out that we have an action plan, and I think it would be very good, and as some kind of recommendation, I would like to make here, to open up a debate and plenary on the subject. I think that would be very good. I think that, especially from the perspective, let's say the Estonian presidency, when we saw colleagues, actually from another point of view, to what extent it was well organised, to what extent in Estonia a consensus was reached on the topics they put on the table and which they actually put into the focus of the Union and which I am convinced, otherwise it is a matter of the digital agenda, that it will really improve the significant quality of life of EU citizens. I wish we could say the same about us. So I would really be very happy, if we could say, already in the anticipation, and especially after our chairmanship, that we really did one big thing and we were up to that challenge. The problem, I think, is that, for example, when we talked in the state budget and projections for this year and for the next year, the funds that were allocated for that purpose, according to several items, so not only in the foreign ministry, but also in other items, are not nearly what they would normally need. Your minister has rightly answered my representative's question on this matter, but also knows how much the EU presidency costs, and in this sense it might be good to consider the possibility of a more even allocation of these funds next year. That would certainly and of course, it would not only talk about having a clear plan but it would give some indication of how you plan to realize it. The issue of enlargement of the EU and other things that you cited in your response to Beus as something that will make our presidency a sort of backbone, I would like to say, I think these are important things and, of course, concern the very direct quality of life of Croatian citizens. But I have to admit, it seems to me, that these are things that aren't worth putting on the table, like our own agenda. I think we should think bigger than that. These are, in particular, the issue of enlargement and our regional relations, the things in which we deal practically daily and which enter into the domain of some and daily and strategic policy. But the presidency should represent, indeed, the great dreams or the great ambitions of a Member State. And in that sense, I'm going to do it a little bit, I think that, for example, if we open up a debate about where we see Croatia in 2030 or 2050, and if we let ourselves, for a moment at least put our daily policy aside and engage in one, as I would say, give ourselves a vision of what kind of country we would like, if we could solve all the problems, I think we might find some kind of together, or you could find it with our help, some kind of good and quality agenda for 2020. Appreciating, of course all the problems and... which you listed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it might have been a better way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67249	Thank you. Two are replicas, the first is a respected colleague, Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67250	Dear colleague, just now, the Prime Minister, and now you're talking about the problem of migrants, that is, migration. You said nicely, solidarity, Christianity, that we should act as Christians in these migrants, that is, to receive them in the right way. I agree fully with you, but I would like to, through this replica of mys, to sensitize this House a little bit, for this very important topic, which I suppose will tell us, unfortunately in the perspective, to create one problem as a state and the whole of the EU. Only 2.3 figures at the beginning to understand a little bit what this is about, today Africa has a billion inhabitants, has one fast-growing population and these trends, in one 60, 70 years, the population in Africa will double. Europe, unfortunately I will say has a depopulation and a reduction in the population, and we ourselves know the demographic situation in Croatia. What's very important is that here you mentioned, and just now the Prime Minister, which is integration. I'm not so sure that this process of integration in Western Europe has worked. I agree... various countries, somewhere more successful, somewhere less successful, but I would say, this very large emigration from those far-few Western countries of the EU, Portugal and Spain and this east of Poland, Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia, according to Germany and Scandinavian countries, says that these immigrants, who entered these Western European countries, were less developed, were not labour forces, such as Germany. I expected it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now both Croatians and Romanians and Bulgarians need to replace that workforce. So solidarity does. Let us accept them as a Christian, but we must think about integration, because without integration, we will have one big, big problem, which we are not even aware of.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67251	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67252	Comrade Zekanovic, I understand what you're saying. I kind of feel like I don't agree with you guys in the phasing, that we're kind of using the same terms, and I'm not sure we're defining them basically. But like this, from my perspective, when it comes to migration, they're not a new phenomenon, they've always been there. I mean, everyone's come from somewhere. I don't valorize different countries that are in Western Europe, or countries that are in Africa, but I can say the next thing. When we talk about integration and its success, the question again, how do you assess whether or not it worked? If from your perspective, if you think integration has succeeded, if someone comes and then becomes the same as you, in a way that just has to accept everything that, in the middle where he came from, it's not integration, it's assimilation. And integration would mean something else, which could mean letting someone come to a group where you live and change you for the better. I mean, change, I think, is good, especially there, if any responsible authority approaches in such a way, to put it at the head of change and change of water, and does not follow and react to trends that change the context irrevocably. So if we're talking about people coming from Africa, I'll say welcome. And these 1583 people, I think I can really make Croatia a better place, both for you and for me and for all the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But I think if we start out of a position to expect, that nothing will change, except that we'll have these people who will live there, I think there's disappointment and dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67253	Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67254	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Croatian Government with his associates. In your presentation, you mentioned this presentation by the Prime Minister, the problem of migrants, and here, in this context, I would like to replicate to you, that it is good, that at the level of the European Commission and the Council, we are discussing the problems of migrants, because this problem is still present today. And today, we have our eastern borders, our daily attempts at crossing illegal borders, and we need to commend, above all, our state bodies, above all, the Ministry of Interior, which is doing this job in a quality way. But I also wanted to say in the context of the word you mentioned solidarity to praise the people of Vukovar Srijem County, the Posavina County, which 2, 3 years ago when the migrant crisis gave its contribution and showed this solidarity and sensitivity to the problems of migrants where they accepted them in quality and gave them their first support on their further journey. In this context, it is certainly necessary to continue the talks at the level and the Republic of Croatia, as well as the European Commission, because the problem has not been solved and it remains quiet around our borders. And it is also desirable that the Croatian Government, especially in the context of its Presidency, make quality policies for immigration, or policies that we will also come up with to take care of migrants. But more important to return to the premises of this particular Slavonia and Baranja, Vukovar-Srijem and Brod-Posavina County and other undeveloped regions of residents is that they are empty regions, unfortunately people continue to emigrate and we need to figure out how to bring people back to those parts of the different economic models to stimulate them to other models. So here's already in some other regions going after it to make life easier in... areas of liberating people from paying the passage through the tunnel, why not reduce the toll to Slavons, why not give state property to young people to stay living in these areas, why not give OPGs to young agricultural producers. What do you think about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67255	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67256	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for your comment, colleague Vlaović. Yes, in the migrant crisis of Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem, they proved to be great and showed that all of that was terrible and terrible what happened to us in the war that we were able to turn into greatness and grow on it. In that spirit, I suppose, was my answer to my colleague Zekanovic, namely any problem can offer its own solution. What you're talking about, I mean what in Croatia may not have been spoken of publicly, but when someone new comes to Croatia, I think of course they'll be able to choose, but I expect that people who come will not be all brand managers or community managers or something of that type, there will be a lot of people who will have knowledge from agriculture who will want to do things like that before, so they might want it in the future, so I'm confident that places like Slavonia or Like will welcome them with open arms, I think. And I would like the government to help whoever is at that moment to be welcomed in exactly that way, and not in any other way. Because you know it doesn't matter whether you're different by faith or by skin color, it was in the Homeland War of People, I'll never forget one episode when in the tram of two women of Zagreb the old commented on how these Vukovars had some kind of dog in '91. Of course, that's one exception, but you'll always have people like that. There were people who welcomed us with open arms, but these things are also remembered. So I would like to do much more because Croatia is so broad-breasted that I would like to welcome such people with open arms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67257	Thank you. We now move to the debate of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Robert Podoljnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67258	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Croatian Government, thank you for your presentation of the European Council meetings. This today's address and this point today is actually a report as a kind of summary of all of 2017 and all the meetings of the formal and informal European Councils in last year and there were a number of key topics in that year. Those who can single out, for example, Brexit and its consequences, or negotiations with the UK, the EU asylum system and the debate on migrant policy, the 60th anniversary of the Roman Treaties and the adoption of the Rome Declaration, the Schengen system, discussions on the future of the EU, the launch of... or the permanent structure of cooperation in the field of security and defence, the relocation of the headquarters of the two EU agencies, etc. Allow for some important issues that we consider important in the past year and with a perspective for the future somewhat broader. Brexit is an important topic not only because of the departure of a large Member State but also because of the negotiations currently being held on a number of important issues, issues relating to citizens' rights and the status of citizens and Croatian and all other Member States in the UK and of course British citizens in other Member States, the issue of financial alignment and the third issue to be addressed between Ireland and Northern Ireland and the EU borders in this area. For the Republic of Croatia, particularly important issues are the status of Croatian citizens, and we expect both you and the Croatian Government to do everything possible to ensure that this status is the same as for all other citizens and all other Member States. And what is particularly important, which is the financial alignment, that is, the question of how this lack of fiscal resources will be closed in the future for the next budgetary period. According to some estimates, this budget gap will amount to 10 billion euros in the period from 2021 to 2027 for all Member States that expect significant funds for their European funds capital projects, this is an extremely important issue. Whether these funds will be compensated by other Member States, whether the EU budget will remain at the same level or feel to a greater or lesser extent the lack of funding that has so far been made out of the United Kingdom budget. And we consider that an extremely important question. In addition, there are, of course, a number of other issues, as well as institutional issues that will result from the United Kingdom's exit. One of these issues is, of course, the issue of the number of members of the European Parliament, the fact that without 73 United Kingdom MPs to open an institutional issue in which countries are seriously debated, which is the question of what to do in this situation, whether to reduce the European Parliament for that number of MPs or somehow divide them or something third or to introduce a European list. And we would be inclined to take the right step, we would suggest that the number of members of the European Parliament be reduced by that number of representatives of the United Kingdom and that, in fact, this Parliament be smaller, to take one step towards rationalising these political costs of Parliament. And now it's actually an unfortunate fact that this Parliament is spending a lot more on two locations, and that's one political inevitability. But it would be a good political message to reduce the number of members of the European Parliament from the current 750 to that number which is lower by 73, and that would eventually lead to no Member States' recommendations on how they will deploy those MPs, which is already under serious debate and possible future recommendations in the coming year. The European Asylum System and the debate on migrant policy have shown, as the Prime Minister has said, and in a previous statement, unfortunately there is no sufficient degree of solidarity and consensus between Member States at this point. There is, in particular, resistance from some Member States. In this regard, I find it particularly unique to the countries of the Visegrad Group which, even in some I would say, are absolutely challenging to the decisions of the EU authorities and even to the European Court of Justice and this is a serious problem for which there is now no solution at EU level. What's important is to further say, for example, if we talk about the next important topic, it's the Schengen system. On his presentation on the state of the Union in September 2017, Commission President Juncker announced the urgent reception of Bulgaria and Romania, and as soon as possible Croatia into the Schengen area. So, an extremely important topic for us. We saw last year what consequences at the border with Slovenia can cause increased control in a situation where Croatia is not in the Schengen area. This is one of the top topics for the Republic of Croatia, for the Government, for all of our representatives in all European institutions. Croatia, as the Prime Minister said, is beginning to create assumptions for entry into the eurozone, and this will be the topic of the coming years that will be led by a serious debate, but at this point we can make serious assumptions about this, in the medium term we will certainly have to have definitive views on this. When it comes to permanent structured cooperation in the area of security and defence, it is about the creation of one, as the President of the Commission, Juncker, said within the alliance, and he called it such a sleeping beauty of the Lisbon Treaty, so the creation of an initial framework for the future serious European defence union or alliance. Of course at this point it is still far from that level that was once imagined after World War II by creating a European defence community in '52. a year that has never otherwise been brought to life, which is foreseen for the creation of European armies. But this is an initial step, an initial step that allows the vast majority of EU member states to, as the prime minister has said, not only the two countries have entered this structured co-operation between Denmark and Malta, the United Kingdom is at the front door anyway. So 25 countries are also an extremely large number that enables the development of cooperation in this area. Of course, the issue and complementarity of NATO and the EU's action will be raised in this area, but Croatia has also said that it has clear interests here especially when establishing a European defence fund, especially for the development of our military industry. Now one subject, unfortunately, I would say, has been quite present in our debates, as Croatia has run for one of the EU Agency's headquarters that must be moved after the United Kingdom's exit from the EU. It's about two agencies, the Agency for Medicinal Products and the Agency for Banking Control. However, as the whole story has ended, we must show not a little dissatisfaction with the final result, I will not say, in that sense, that the Republic of Croatia has not obtained a result that may at least have been expected to get the seat of one of the EU agencies, but the very fact that the debate on this and the particular decision in the EU has shown that, unfortunately, there is one strong division between the old ones, let's say that the conditional Western members of the EU and the new Eastern member states and the decision on the headquarters of those agencies have, unfortunately, shown this deep gap and those principles that were declared in 2003 that the new agencies will in principle take precedence from those Member States where there are no EU agencies. Unfortunately, this principle is not respected by one ridiculous argument that this case was not about new agencies to be located in the area of a Member State, but about moving already existing agencies, a very bad explanation. The very fact that no new Member State with its application and its re-seats entered the finals of the election but were exclusively older members was not a good message, an absolutely bad message that would certainly leave a bitter taste for all the new EU member states. I don't know how much of this you formally and informally discussed at the meetings of the European Council, I don't see any formal sign of it. If you've discussed informally, I must say on behalf of our club that the decision was absolutely not good. Next thing you know, what I'd like to say on behalf of the club, and that's the question I asked you, that's an important question that will certainly dominate next year. In principle, you responded to me that there is an opportunity and a chance that everyone hopes next year will not dominate the debate on the punishment of one Member State for violating the fundamental values of the EU referred to in Article 2. The EU Treaty and that the worst black scenario will be avoided. The fact is that the European Commission launched this procedure, that it was launched on 20 December of last year, that there is a three-month deadline for the government to respond to the European Commission's latest recommendations, but it would not be as great an optimist as you were in the response you gave me. This recommendation requires Poland to amend or withdraw a series of laws adopted in the previous period, a law relating to the Supreme Court, to regular courts, to the National Judicial Council, to fully establish the independence of the Constitutional Court, to recognise decisions of the Constitutional Court, to publish all decisions of the Constitutional Court and all that the Government has refused in the past two years should be true within the next three months. That's why unlike you, I'm not optimistic. This issue will likely arise before the European Parliament, which must give its previous opinion to the Council, but let's not forget the European Parliament has already been discussed three times. In his last resolution on the issue, he decided with more than two-thirds of the majority on breach of fundamental values in this case when it comes to a series of laws adopted in Poland. And of course I would pray that there is a difference between a country that is friendly to us and a people who is friendly to maybe one government, one parliamentary majority that has passed a certain law. I would never identify one with another, but that will be an important question. What I would say on behalf of the club would be good if that decision was made on behalf of the Republic of Croatia not only at the level of the Government or you as Prime Minister but also at the Parliament and also at the competent Committee on European Affairs because it is an extremely important decision and you are absolutely aware of it. And as you yourself said, it's often a question of when a question of no return is being raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67259	Thank you, too. You have one replica, it's a respected colleague of the bush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67260	Dear colleague Podolnjak. You mentioned the situation around Poland, I'm always more on the side of sovereign states and their decisions to arrange things in their own country at will. What we unfortunately have in Croatia, and what is happening now and with this government is one policy in which even what is our sovereign right we fail to achieve or do not want to implement as an exclusively economic belt. Namely, the Independent Lists Bridge has referred to a decision procedure or public debate of the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia at sea, but we see that although there are certain voices in the HDZ that support it, such as Davor Ivo Stier, we have a situation that Prime Minister Plenkovic does not want to go in this direction which shows that Croatia or what is its sovereign right, which must actually be done under the UN Convention and the law of the Sea of '82. years, but also on the recommendations that come from Europe that the Croatian government that loves to represent itself means a party that loves to be represented as patriotic and is afraid to do so, which is not only our obligation, it is our right not only but also our obligation to do so. So I would ask you to comment on it in the context of what you've been saying means pressure from Europe to Poland, but also Croatia as a sovereign state that does not want to implement what it has an obligation to implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67261	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67262	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. I only said in principle that this important political issue for all Member States and also for European bodies will be on the agenda. I did not take any personal stand because I only appealed to the debate at the Croatian Parliament. What you said is an important issue for all EU Member States that are also maritime states and have an open access to the open sea. And what is important is to say and what is to be said in this Croatian Assembly, the vast majority of EU member states that have declared the open sea states entirely an exclusive economic belt. If both France and the UK, Spain, if done by Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Poland, Latvia, Estonia, etc. Not to list all Member States as their sovereign right to the UN Convention, we expect nothing more than for Croatia to do what they have legitimately done with full right and for all other EU Member States who wanted to do so at some point and have done before the Republic of Croatia. So what is important to stress is that the vast majority of EU member states that have the right to do so and who are not in any particular dispute as Greece has with Turkey, so they have some problems. What we expect to actually show is that we can use this sovereign right in the same way as other Member States that have access to the open sea. If all of them have seen not only potential but also real benefits, benefite from that decision they certainly exist for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67263	Let's move on, next debate Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA and colleagues Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67264	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. We are listening here today to a report by the Prime Minister on formal and informal meetings within the EU and we see that after 15 months of forming this government, it has come to an end with itself. In fact, Mr Plenkovic set out very ambitiously in the expansion as he says in the mainstream to promote the European Commission's policy, the European Parliaments who before he came to this post and belonged to himself, but here in these moves that we can read from these reports, as well as some other actions, see that he is slowly coming into conflict with the same EU, so we could say with ourselves. We see that HDZ representatives in the European Parliament voted contrary to the other representatives of the European People's Party, in particular in the case of Poland, which, in the opinion of the European Commission, threatens democratic institutions such as civil society, independent judiciary, human rights, in particular women's rights. For those who do not know only a brief illustration, I would quote Polish representative Janos Korvin in the European Parliament who said, I literally quote "Of course women must earn less than men, are weaker, less intelligent and therefore have to earn less." Such a Polish policy was supported by HDZ representatives in the EU, the only one of the European People's Party, even Polish MPs, the Pucans voted in favour of the European Parliament's resolution but not HDZ representatives. Only after the intervention, and I'd like the Prime Minister to explain to me whose opinion they've changed, so now they're not against it, they're just abstentions. These were Ivana Maletic, Dubravka Šuica, Željana Zovko and Ivana Tolic. Let those people's names be known. We also see the Three Seas initiative, which is some kind of small EU within the big EU, and we could call it the restoration of some kind of pre-war little assassination or so on. The sanitary cordon invented by the United States after the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution. The pressure of the United States, which apparently goes towards Croatia and Croatia is increasingly subject to it, is very simply seen in the event of a vote for Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Of the 172 states, 128 states were against the US's decision, 35 were abstentions, and only 9 supported the United States of America, among which such powers were of those 9 such as Minnesota with 100,000 inhabitants or Nauru with 13 thousand inhabitants, means how many a local committee in Zagreb has as much as a state that supports the great power of the United States. But that's where the government of Mr. Plenkovic and their representatives in the UN were also found because they were very afraid of what the American Embassy would say. And now instead of Croatia being in the society of the developed and cultural world of states such as Germany, Great Britain, France, Japan, China, India, Russia we are in the company of the following countries of Vancouver, Solomon Islands, South Sudan, Runada, Kiribati, Barbadas and Bermuda, it is the society that our prime minister wants to classify us in. I also repeat that Croatia sells weapons to Saudi Arabia's main US ally in the Middle East from the Arab world without knowing where that weapon ends. It's a violation of international standards. We know that the weapons that Croatia delivers to Saudi Arabia are delivered to terrorists, that it is an aggression in Yemen, that people are killed, that hundreds of thousands of children are left without their homes. Does Croatia need such classification in the 21st century? Who and with what right has brought here the military delegation of Saudi Arabia to the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament in uniforms, make sure that we clap to them. I admire you, if you clapped, I didn't clap and I'll never clap. People with bloody hands, honest men don't clap. We also see that Mr. Prime Minister had a very big problem with Agrokora who also did not know how to solve without the help of Americans. I am interested in what will happen when the United States announced that it has stepped down from a nuclear agreement with Iran that is therefore contrary to the agreement signed by the EU, whether the HDZ MPs will vote against the EU or support it again. It's amazing to support American politics, but it's obvious that it exists. I'd just like to compare, here, one little icon. See for example. that the Croatian President cannot even speak to the White House, but must be photographed in front of the fence, while the Russian president received it for 2 hours in a friendly conversation. What do we need to be so susceptible to and so strictly classify ourselves on one side? Because it is obvious that the United States wants to impose the world's policy on the right of a stronger, richer, and that should be opposed, and we have an opportunity, therefore, at least within that EU, which, therefore, has a completely different opinion, means some kind of resistance exists, but not in Croatia. And that is why it would be much more important, that from the reports we are now hearing about meetings within the EU, the Prime Minister submits a report on formal and informal meetings with US officials. Then we would find out a lot more about Croatian foreign and domestic policy than we know now. Because obviously this policy is more important, these meetings are more important than these meetings I'm hearing about right now. I'd also like to look back on this report here, let's say for a page. 7 is about how, therefore, the policy of the European Central Bank, which is the only solution for the long-term recession and for the decline of GDP and the arrival of deflation, was found to create money or to print money. The European Central Bank is printing 60 billion euros annually. It has therefore been leading an active monetary policy for 4 years and I am interested in how it is possible that the HDZ in the Europarliament supports therefore an active monetary policy and, at the same time, in Croatia, does not allow such monetary policy, or does not allow the CNB itself to create money and to print it. The more the Living Wall transfers one such measure that exists within the EU, the more it accuses us of rickets, ignorants, and more or less so that we want to implement politics I don't know... And printing money on computers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The EU could not help any austerity measures, no interest cuts, but an active monetary policy. Why does this right that the EU and the European Central Bank do not have Croatia? Why does the EU have more power in Croatia than we do in Croatia? We also see that at these meetings in Europe, the premiere boasted about the employment of young people. Here, he says, reduced the number of unemployed young people. Do you really believe that in Croatia young people do more than they did 5 years ago? So let's look at this statistic that the State Statistics Office is offering. It was not invented either by Branimir Bunjac or the Living Wall, but in particular, at the State Statistics Institute, according to the following, in 2011 there were 550,000 persons between 20-29 in Croatia and in 2016 there were 499 000 people at the same age. So 51,000 young people disappeared in Croatia in 5 years. So not that the number of unemployed youngsters has decreased, but the number of youngsters has decreased, that's true. And why did they shrink? So they shrunk due to emigration, and they cut down simply because of poor demographic growth. At the same time, this same State Statistics Institute informs us that there has been a significant increase in the number of people over 70 years of age. That's real statistics. The diameter, of course, is credible in its program, I believe that he didn't write it himself, announced the opening of 180,000 jobs. Where are those jobs? Which makes the EU, or I don't know the American Embassy, to help us create those jobs. It's said, this year, here's already a third of the manna, it's officially gone, we've opened 10,000 people up to work, but in what way? By someone getting professional training, so now he claims to be doing it. The man who's on vocational training doesn't have the contributions paid, he doesn't work. He won't have a pension from being trained. Also, Minister Maric introduced a contract on the part, that the contract on the part is like work. It's not. Only one who has a job contract works. Please show the statistics of the people who have a work contract. Then I'll admit to you that you've possibly opened up some jobs. And you'll see that when you compare this statistic, which I just told you, the number of employees actually decreased. And another rhetorical question, if we even open 180 thousand jobs who's going to work on them, who are we going to hire when we don't have anyone else? We can open a million jobs when there's no people, there's no people. What does our government offer as a solution to the crisis? Instead of carrying out some real reforms, instead of implementing an active monetary policy, instead of pulling state action, to solve the issue of public procurement, to restore confidence in the institutions, the Government is announcing the evaluation of civil servants, the evaluation, introduces a political similarity. They will now evaluate, here you can imagine that Prime Minister Plenkovic will evaluate me. I'm sure he'll give me five as soon as he sees how I work, I guarantee I'll do fine. And why won't I go well? I'll tell you why, because I'm not a member of the HDZ, so it's such a representative, Peric. You want people disciplined on a party basis, not professionally, that's the point of your evaluation. You want to introduce censorship, look at these craps that are now being proposed about the Rules of Procedure, one minute will speak to the MPs in the replica. Look, I'll come to Zagreb, I'll spend seven, eight hours there to speak for one minute. It'll be a Twitter Parliament. A great democratisation on the orders of the European Commission and I don't know who else, Donald Trump,...what I know is what they're called these unspeakable characters who are always smarter than us and whose instructions we must blindly follow. The best thing to do is to immediately enter the oath of these civil servants who, in the Middle Ages, remove the sword, kneel, swear to subjection, and that is, return the wheel of history to a thousand years ago. Why bother with the parties, why listen to what the Living Wall says, it's only important to implement the directives. And you've been used, I have to tell you that, Prime Minister, they've used you, and they'll reject you just like they rejected all those before you who agreed to be puppets to work against the interests of their own people. So I want to conclude briefly because I don't have time anymore. Croatia must review its EU membership, as is necessary, as has the UK. I don't think Great Britain is a bad example that we shouldn't follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67265	It's three replicas. The first is my colleague Pernar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67266	Dear counterpart Bunjac, you mentioned that Croatia was placed alongside Donald Trump and various microstates and exotic states, which are all but independent and sovereign. This has shown that Croatia does not have its foreign policy, that it does not even matter what Brussels thinks, if it is Washington's opinion. However, it is not only wrong to blame HDZ for subjection, HDZ or Prime Minister Plenkovic and Croatia in the UN for the common parties of the ruling majority, but also for Milan Bandic's party, whose current Mufti, Sevko Omerbasic, who represented the Islamic Community in Croatia and who was on Milan Bandic's list in the elections. And now what is happening, Bandic is part of the government that is directed against the interests of the Palestinian people and against the interests of the Islamic world, and therefore, by his participation in the party, by accepting to be on its list and his modern mufti, Sevko Omerbasic, has silently supported this decision by the Government to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, not Palestine. Unfortunately, our prime minister's mouth is full of Crimea, but believe me, Mr. Plenkovic, that people living in occupied Palestine can dream of the rights that the people of Crimea have. There's so much about human rights and democracy and respect for international rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67267	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67268	Thank you very much. Agent Pernar, that's so, you know, you need to get a little bit of a shout, and when you get a bit of an undertone, you change your mind by 180 degrees right now. I think of one thing today, today I'm for the mainstream, today I'm for the European Commission for Juncker, but as soon as someone calls on me, I have to change her mind right now because I don't know maybe... the vulture fund will cancel obedience, maybe there will be some problems around Agrokor, so the government will shake up, and maybe it won't fall, and it wouldn't be good for someone to fall because of course it wouldn't be good at personal level, and for the state it might be good, and this is not, and that's why it's very important to get used to politics. You should say if you won't listen you won't get the money and it's also a very important argument, as soon as it's heard you won't get the money you need to accept the opinions right away. Everything can be bought today. You can buy not only political obedience, you can buy friendship, love, anything, you can probably buy God himself in the opinion of those who agree to such acrobatics. And the man who has his position, and I heard last year at the same time here that the Prime Minister is a follower of the mainstream, has a phonogram, he follows the EU. So why didn't we vote the same as France, Germany, Italy, why? What happened now is that he's giving it up, which are the reasons, which is the bat that's above our heads that threatens us and says no, you have to do this. What's that? It's dollars, it's some contracts. What use do we have? Here I would like to hear, which we have now benefited from, specifically, that we have been restrained and that we have been embarrassed in front of the entire cultural world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67269	Second replica, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67270	Thank you very much, President. Here, before I give the replica, I'd just like to warn you of the misbehavior of Mrs... which paints here parliamentary representatives, a photogram is not a place, Mr. President, that this is how the deputy head of the Government of the Republic of Croatia behaves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A colleague of Bunjac, you have said a very important thing, which is the contemporary decision of the Croatian Parliament, which is simply bypassing. And you mentioned many things and I really believe that under pressure we will not lose Savudrija, that under pressure we will not even vote on the economic belt, our entire territory to control it is the modern law of the Republic of Croatia. And natural wealth and people, that's what we need to protect. And you really asked one question, which is the secret meetings of the diameter of Plenkovic, I will quote you literally with American officials and various officials. I'm really against these secret meetings, courtships, sticks over my head. But also, fellow Bunjac, I'm modern, I'm against it, to go to lunch with... that we worship him, that we may eat and that he may say what will be in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Bio Trump, bio Tusk, bio Asims, bio NATO, Croatia must have modern politics. Neither Asim nor Dvori, nor anyone in Croatia to this House, shall hold a bat above their heads, or anyone else. This is my position, and you have contemporary attitudes, and I believe that neither Asimov nor Trump, will, that you are not to hold a bat over our heads because the Croatian Parliament is the only God above it. That's why we agree with you, and that's why your behavior, to get personal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67271	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67272	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Bulj. I completely agree with you in this part, that no one should have over Croatia any... So Russia, neither the United States nor the EU, nor China, so we're totally in agreement here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Each party must have its own position, the Croatian party, which is based on its programme. Anything else simple, it would be... But when you say something to the Living Wall, I'd just like to, as some criticism, look back at you two, raise your hands for HDZ. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you raised your hand to the diameter of Plenkovic, and last year you supported his report in the first month. You had the Ministry, this, the police, you had the Department of Justice, you had the Ministry of the Environment, what were you waiting for with the Plitvice Lakes? There you have made the same palaces as you mention, the likes of the HDZ people before you. That's where you feasted, honored, had meetings, party meetings, what's-his-name, etc. You were the same. If Prime Minister Plenkovic hadn't kicked you out of the government, you'd still be raising your hand today. ... That's why you're the opposition. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You'd be saying today what a great, brilliant report this is, and how we don't really get it. So, please don't transfer your responsibility to us, you've had the opportunity twice. And let me tell you something else, now that you're already pulling my tongue, that you have a third chance and you'd take it. And by the way, you would go there, and our diameter knows very well, and all of you who listened to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67273	I would remind you that the topic of today's debate is a report of the diameter of the meetings of the European Council, so please stick to the subject, we went a little in another direction. It may be fun, but it's not the topic of today's debate. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67274	Thank you very much, President. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure broke, I quoted myself as a diameter, i.e. to Mr. Bunjac in one statement, and I said what is true, that this option in which I am contemporary, is neither Russian, but is purely Croatian, nor American. That's the most important thing. This is a purely Croatian option, and a colleague of Bunjac, for the sake of truth, that it was not a Bridge and that there were 12 people, you had one parliamentary representative, for the first time, extraordinary elections and loud no, you are the same in Parliament, you are for it. And the people chose you, you have that legality. However, objecting to us, you who are having dinner with Asim and agreeing on a Croatian strategy, is the same couple of dangers as they are talking to American officials and Brussels officials. There's no difference for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67275	Which is subordinated to the Rules of Procedure, you didn't say, colleague Bulj... But what? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You have to explain what was the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you didn't explain. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Comrade Pernar, you wanted something the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67276	Col. Bulj injured the Rules of Procedure by actually using a reply to the replica, which has already been answered and actually being misused by the Rules of Procedure instead of the actual breach of the Rules of Procedure. But what is crucial, says counterpart Bulj, is that he and his colleagues were protecting Croatia's interests. And with which, with colleagues from HDZ, he twice protected and in the end, worst of all, supported the budget, supported these same reports that he now condemns and the same budget he has now voted against.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67277	Wait a minute, colleague Pernar, you haven't said at all what was injured or any article and I ask you not to abuse it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67278	I mean, Mr. Plenkovic didn't kick him out of the government. I'd still support the same government, that's what I was going to say. [[Just a little colleague Pernar, just a little bit.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67279	So, we interrupt this debate, today we've talked very correctly, we've stuck to the topic, now you've gone to total other waters, you've started re-using the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure, which is why we're going to change the Rules of Procedure, not to take away your right of speech, but because you're doing this, and I'm asking you to stop this debate and go back to the subject of today's agenda. So please now, fellow Muscle, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67280	Thank you, President of the Parliament. You're not for Europe, you're not for America, you're not for this, you're not for anything, you're not a questionable EU membership, why we're talking to America. So we need to know that this is a global world, that in this global world we have to talk about to survive of course and do some business with these countries, but when the question is now here you mentioned America, you know well that for 70 years we have lived in communism where we had to keep track of the Russian system and the communist party and 70 years we have been a democracy only for individuals, and for most people it is not. We need to know that the Croatian people have chosen Europe and they want to be in Europe, I agree with you if some government is not doing well to criticise and do it anyway, but we need to know that this year and last year it was a surplus and for the first time in 25 years that this government has laid down at least something that in Croatia at least we're at zero, we didn't borrow any more than we've spent so we would say. I'm sure you'll tell me now after this, I gave my hand to the government and that's why I'm saying it. No, I'm not in the HDZ, I'm not in any of the SDP parties, but I'm saying that we just have to see if this government is real, and right now, one good job for Croatia, I personally think that I don't speak populistly if I see all the parameters, and if we measure economically that we're going in the right direction. Therefore, if we do the same thing this year and next, we will certainly raise even more GDP and certainly stabilise the state, and not this way when you will not be with anyone, and they would constantly criticise it. So you have to get to the authorities like everyone else, get into one party like Most tried, and then try to change. It doesn't change this way like you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67281	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67282	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Misic. It's not true that we don't want to be with anyone, we want to be with someone. You know who that is? The Croatian people. There, we want to be with him. And then we can talk further to who is needed, but not in a way that makes us condescending, not in a way that forces us to do something that we have just discovered is not in line with what the Croatian people expect. I'd just like to make two things right here. The first thing, communism lasted 45 years in Croatia, not 70, and on the other hand you're talking about surpluses, so if we have a surplus why does this government bring a debt plan in three years of 173 billion kuna? We have a surplus, then let's spend the extra money. So as the government shows you that surplus, it'd be like I'm spending money on food, directors and loans, but I'm showing income only in the food segment and then I don't know how to save 100 kunas on food and I say here I have a surplus. And at the same time, I don't know the loans, or I didn't pay the director's fee. Or approximately, the government owes eight billion kuna for health care, then says we're not going to pay 2017, but we're going to pay 2018, and says here we solved the problem. It's like solving a problem I have a temperature and then I break the thermometer, I say here's the problem solved. That's what makes sense to you. Or I don't know, say I don't pay for electricity this month and I say look, I got 300 kunas more money. There are no surpluses because if there were surpluses for all citizens in Croatia, wages would increase and we would still lend loans to other countries, not to ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67283	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which a respected representative, Domagoj Milosevic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67284	A colleague of Bunjac, there is a significant difference between the refinancing of the old debt and the taking of a new debt, needs at least some basic economic concepts known to be discussed publicly. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister with associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. Before this year, the 5th anniversary of Croatia's EU membership still seems to me that, even in the assembly, we haven't even realized that all these European topics are our domestic topics, that domestic policies are being discussed here, and that the challenges facing the EU are not only there in Brussels and the Brussels halls, but in front of all of us. Thank God that some of the topics that are mostly occupied by the top three, four after all public research on the public change of the EU and European citizens in particular in the west, you want terrorism, security, migration are mostly not Croatian topics for now. So topics differ, but challenges from the European continent are common, so not only migration, security, technological, climate, social, economic. I would like to hear from you Eurosceptics some arguments to make it easier for us to deal with all these global challenges that are difficult to deal with and some economies that have trillions of euro of GDP. Let's get back to the report. We will start with migration, migration will neither disappear, nor will it stop in view of democratic movements, above all in Africa and climate change, it is perfectly clear that in decades before us we will all deal with migration, and I am afraid of the increasingly difficult and intense way. For this reason, I would like to say firstly that we support the European Council's efforts in terms of migration and I will say, therefore, 1st careful monitoring of all migration routes and preparedness to respond quickly, 2nd flexible and coordinated use of all available instruments of the Union and Member States, support directly affected or included members who are much, 4th strong cooperation with international partners as well as countries of origin of transit and departure and 5th reduction of the promotion of illegal migration through effective return of migrants. Finally, co-operation with Turkey on migration should continue, and we appreciate that intensive discussion and consideration are also being given to support non-EU countries, and the Council's key objective is to agree on effective monitoring of external borders, which should allow for the removal of temporary border surveillance of internal borders. In view of all of this, it seems that the necessity of the coverage of all the Schengen area Member States has finally reached all the members and I believe that in the next year we will testify that Croatia will also be a full member and Schengen space. What I also think is necessary, however, is the need to discuss at Union level, which is an unequal position and consequently different views on the reception of migrants and asylum seekers. On the one hand, we have countries where the local population is leaving, first of all I am talking about the EU's east, and that's where we and our country are losing their population. On the other hand, of course, well-developed Western member countries have good immigration flows not only from the east of the EU, not only from Croatia but also from other continents. The second point is digital Europe. First of all, let me specify the key objectives or tools for achieving this digital Europe, and I think they are fully applicable to Croatia. The first regulatory framework is aimed at the future, the public sector and the administrations that have completely crossed over to digital times and lead to their own example. The second infrastructure and communication network is of top quality, here we have something to do. Third joint approach to cyber security, the fight against terrorism and crime on the Internet. Fourth labour market and training, education appropriate to the digital age. And lastly, further investment in research and development, innovation, but an effective and fair system of taxation of high tech companies that are growing, which act thanks to God and Croatia. That digitization has covered all spheres of human work and action is not a novelty, but what seems to me right in front of us and that's robotics. I'm not sure we know where he's leading us. I mean the whole world. For a moment, to return to this issue of migration and bring it into connection with digitisation, that is to say, the robotisation that is ahead of us remains an open question of how much it really is necessary in Europe for both migration and labour from other continents, given that the recent technological progress and this roboticisation will, in the years ahead, eliminate not only thousands of jobs, but also entire sectors. Studies last show that over the years, 50% of all jobs will be under pressure, will need to be changed, adjusted. Therefore, non-application and adjustment companies could also be seriously affected. In that sense, support for the government and for you, Prime Minister, in implementing the announced reforms this year. These reforms that will be implemented will be a key signal to all people and companies that we need to change and adapt faster because the changes and this technological progress that I've been talking about won't bypass us, whether someone wants to or not. But they can run us over in the decades ahead of us if we're not much, much faster and much more flexible than we've ever been before. The third is security and defense. An ambitious continuous structured cooperation was established, so-called "Statistics" and "Statistics" was established. PESCO is expected to implement the first projects quickly. As part of the European Defence Fund, further efforts are expected to enable joint procurement of defence funds or their joint maintenance or improving access to the most advanced technologies when it comes to defence. In 2018, the adoption of the European Industrial Development Programme in the area of defence is expected to finance the first projects next year. I would like to stress that in all the documents that I have come under my hand, the continued emphasis is also on the participation of medium and small enterprises, although it is a huge and very advanced financial demand for the defence industry. I believe there are plenty of opportunities for Croatian entrepreneurs. Finally, under part of the security of defence, further work should be highlighted on the implementation of a whole series of proposals on EU-NATO co-operation. Fourthly, as far as jobs, economic growth and competitiveness are concerned, I hope for the greatest skeptics or the euro skeptics, I believe it is clear that without the good functioning of the single market within the EU, there would be no good, strong recovery and neither in Croatia. When you look at the past few years and the recovery and from where the recovery of the Croatian economy comes primarily thanks to the private sector, thanks to exports to the EU of products and services. This includes tourism. Further efforts concern the services of the Digital Single Market, the Union, the Capital Markets and the Energy Union. I hope that here at the most recent time and we will not so little contribute to this energy union and security of supply of LNG terminals on the island of Krk and assume our responsibility not only for this space around us but also beyond in terms of Central Eastern Europe and diversification of gas supply. The European Fund for Strategic Investments and further expansion and strengthening of the Fund will contribute significantly to all of these. The Council emphasizes and I believe that at least we will agree on this in the assembly. Everyone keeps calling for industry and production, so we'll probably agree that industry plays a key role as a driver of growth, employment and innovation. I'm afraid we're a little behind in this regard, because we're increasingly relying on tourism. Therefore, the transparent privatisation of the remaining Croatian state portfolio in industrial companies should not only be a goal, but I believe above all a tool to accelerate economic growth and raise the competitiveness of the entire Croatian economy so that what I was talking about digitalisation does not happen to us. As far as trade is concerned, I like the clear view that the Union will fight protectionism, but at the same time against unfair and discriminatory commercial practices of market distortion. I believe that this balance is possible and I also like the view that it will analyse investments from third countries in strategic sectors within the Union while respecting the full competence of Member States. There's a little answer for these Eurosceptics in terms of who can and who can't. So let's inform people exactly how it is. Finally something about climate change, social, education and culture. As for climate change, the EU and Member States are not only fully committed to implementing the Paris Agreement but we want to be a global leader in the fight against climate change, we hope and believe that the US can return to the Paris Agreement. From the Social Summit in Göteborg it was nice and good to hear that you need to put people, man in first place. In order to achieve this, we need to implement a European pillar of social rights at Union and Member State level, taking into account the competences of the States or the Union, to achieve a functional social dialogue at all levels including so on. a new start for social dialogue at Union level, to achieve results on the new skills programme for the Union in terms of improvement, which we need a lot in Croatia and I think it will be easier for us within the Union than beyond. I would like to stress at the end that the Union action plan to combat pay gaps between men and women. Here I would like to emphasise once again the economic and social differences between the same and the west of the EU. I think it is something that, on the long run, can seriously endanger the stability of the Union itself and I believe, I am sure that the focus of almost all policies in Brussels within the Union should be just an accelerated reduction of these differences between the East and the West of the EU. Education and culture are key to building, but also to preserving inclusive related societies facing the future and progress. We therefore support strengthening and expanding the Erasmus+ programme, strengthening strategic partnerships between universities across the EU, improving language learning with the aim of making more young people speak alongside mother tongues and two European languages, mutual recognition of higher education diplomas, testimony of secondary education. Some times it really shocks me to hear that somewhere in Croatia, they do not recognise diplomas from the world's best universities and ultimately promote mobility and participation of students in educational and cultural activities, including assistance in European student cards. I must say here that both the Croatian Parliament and the Committee of the Croatian Parliament for European Affairs are trying to contribute to everything we talk about. We started to organize at the end of last year, we will continue during 2018, a debate with Croatian students who, throughout Croatia, are organised at universities together with the student choir and the Commission's representativeship in Zagreb. I am very happy with the outcome of the first debate, the interest of students, comments, suggestions and reflections, and I really thank you for that. In the end, the HDZ Club accepts the report and we invite all of you colleagues to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67285	Thank you. However, it is also your presentation of a few replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67286	Dear colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67287	That's a fellow Milosevic, by the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67288	My fellow Milosevic, I apologize. You spoke in your presentation about how Plenkovic is going to solve many global problems in Brussels and HDZ, but Croatian citizens are interested in the problems they have now, today and here in Croatia. One of these problems is that we pay too much toll, which has become a luxury on the highways, and the other part of the problem is tied back to the Ulnik, so these workers, unlike us who received probably up to the 7th in a month's pay and these fine salaries, have not yet seen a few thousand of them even swear their salaries. They don't have anywhere to pay the directories, they don't have a place to pay for food, and now imagine a child comes to you and says the child I want chocolate, you don't have a chocolate child, and you don't care about that from HDZ. And I'm still telling Prime Minister Plenkovic, sir, don't you see that people are in trouble that you should have thought about it, and he says I've thought about it enough, we've had some measures, etc. However, all the moves that HDZ has made in terms of solving the problem in Uljanic are not enough because wages do not come today, workers do not receive salaries. And I don't understand how you don't see the problem, this is the current crisis, this is the acute problem you don't solve at all. How can you be so indifferent to that, I don't get it. People are in trouble and this government gives a million even out of the Republic of Croatia, and it is unable to help its own workers in its own country. So what kind of government is that to guarantee a guarantee has to go to Brussels, so what kind of foreign policy can we talk about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67289	My colleague Pernar, I didn't interrupt you, but all you said was nothing. It had absolutely nothing to do with this point. I kindly ask all parliamentary deputies to stick to the subject, to stick to the point. Now, I don't know if the esteemed Milosevic wants to say something, there's nothing to answer because it doesn't apply to the subject, but maybe he'll say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67290	Of course I answered. So I don't know my colleague Pernar did hear me well or you missed hearing or not understanding me. So no one here has said that we will solve global problems, we have enough of our own than exactly the opposite. Part of the solution to Croatian problems lies both outside Croatia and in collaboration with countries which some of you openly advocate, which is fascinating. But it's as fascinating as listening now for over a year now, taxing everything you've said here, I've never heard a single solution, unfortunately. I'd like to listen to your side of the solution, respect creative people and ideas, so you're making some arguments, don't talk to Croatian citizens here to mix up economic concepts, introduce a misunderstanding between refinanced old debt, taking a new debt, so these are some topics that we should have absorbed maybe long before we started dealing with politics. And finally I'll tell you, once I've told you this, I don't know what economical idea you're at right now, I'd like to find out what the economic logic and philosophy of the Living Wall is, but what I've heard so far, and that's that we should get into the CNB printing money, share it on the road, believe me, it's not a solution, it's not going to solve our problems. Compared to the European Central Bank and 15 trillions of EU and Croatian GDP to just over 40 billion euros and a couple of billion euros, I think that any reasonable person who imagines himself will understand that printing money in Croatia is not the solution. So-called You say active monetary policy. And these young men who have left Croatia seem to me not to go to Russia, nor Venezuela, nor to North Korea, but to Ireland and Germany. So let's figure out that there are some market rules, there's a way to open jobs, who's going to create new values, hire people. It's primarily the private sector, so let's all help together, and compete with the ideas, how we're gonna make it happen and keep the young ones away.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67291	Thank you. The next replica, the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Milosevic, you mentioned two things that were very important to me. So, when we think about both the future of the EU and Croatia is in it. And that's, uh, working, I guess, working. These are migrations, first of all. So, the pressure of migrants has not stopped yet, nor will it stop, some projections say that what we witnessed in 2015 is only the first wave of migrants. So the pressure on the Croatian border still exists. Some migrants, crossing our border, are in transit, etc. There are a whole series of solutions offered by the EU, such as President Macrone, discussed extra territorial asylums or outside territorial asylums. We don't know yet what kind of attitude it will be, since the German administration is in it, since the government hasn't formed yet, on some, we're already getting signals. You mentioned climate change, climate change, will also be a problem and their rights, as we will observe. So I would like Croatia to have one proactive position, the more we will be and we are on the transit route, migration towards Western Europe. And at the end of the borders, we heard from the EU, or from the European Commission, that no country that enters the EU will be able to have unresolved borders anymore. We still have them unsolved with three neighbors. So, with Serbia, Montenegro or with BiH. This is something that our diplomacy needs to be dealt with intensively and what we should try to solve in the interests of Croatia, of course, and also in the interests of our neighbours, stabilisation and European pathways throughout Southeast Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67293	Thank you. The response of the respected Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67294	Yes, we agree with counterpart Hajdukovic, the figures say, and these are very nasty, which is that in the next few decades Africa will come to 2.5 billion people, that Nigeria will have more inhabitants than the EU. With climate change, it doesn't have to be genius, so let's conclude that these people aren't going to Saudi Arabia. I would like to hear from these Eurosceptics of ours, would Croatia be easier to retaliate alone, somewhere, as an island outside the EU, or within the NATO alliance and the Union. I think that in 99% of our people the answer is crystal clear and by reason without excessively much information can be answered for. And a whole series of other challenges, which my colleague Pernar misunderstood, which I was talking about with global challenges, which concern Croatia as well. Well, I guess digital terrorism, or I don't know what other terrorism is all about and Croatia. Well, we're part of a civilized world, thank God. The Union is not perfect, but the Union is a platform and we must be aware that, regardless of its size, we have a voice there, if we are, loud, if we are justified, creative, I am sure that we can use membership in the Union, as a tool for ourselves, for our people, for progress, for more jobs, for returning, not only stopping and leaving young people, but for returning young people to Croatia. Croatia has this potential and that is why I firmly believe that this government will implement reforms that have been delayed for years and years, so today we are somewhere at the bottom of the EU. So let's do reforms, we know what reforms they are. I hope then those who are quite loud here will, of course, support it, or have some suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67295	Thank you. Now we'll move on to individual debates. And the first one will be spoken by the respected representative Branimir Bunjac. An individual debate. ... An individual debate, which is why I told you, I think. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yes, it's really hard to follow the Rules of Procedure, and that's why we have to change it, which is obviously why some of us haven't even read it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67296	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, we hear that the ruling majority's representatives are very pleased with the situation in the EU. Namely, our youngsters have a place to go to work. I can go to Germany and Ireland, but I want to know what's good about it. It would be good for me if they stayed working in Croatia, it would be a good solution. Not that it's a good solution, that they have jobs within other EU countries. It would be a much better solution for the Irish and Germans to come work in Croatia, not for us to go work with them. We also heard that MP Milosevic supports, that the EU is leading an active monetary policy but not Croatia. How can the Czech Republic run an active monetary policy. Do you know that the Czech Republic has a crown, not a euro? That there's twice as much export as imports. That it has a far lower unemployment rate than Croatia, that it has a far smaller VAT. Here, it says in the program credible in the second year of office, we're going to cut the huge VAT to 24%. That's not what I wrote. That's what you wrote. But you only talk about these problems when it's a pre-election campaign. Then, they say, if we see the problem, young, unemployed, too high taxes, then they write a nice program, we'll start the Agricultural Bank. Where is this Agrarian Bank? 180,000 jobs, come on, I can't wait for people to get a job, maybe I'll get a job, too, if there's a lot of jobs, so we'll be able to choose where we're going to work. But that's not there. The government says, we have a surplus, and it's in debt for 183 billion kuna. Long health care 8 billion. Well, come on, if we have a surplus, let's go pay that debt, so we're cool. That would make sense. How does the government grow? That's what's important to explain. Currently within the EU, all countries have GDP growth and according to a clean law of connected vessels, something has been shed with us as well. Well, logically, it would be illogical for all states to have GDP growth if we still had a drop after 10 years of recession. But it's not our fault. It's just a spill. That would be about the same, like I'm in a room with smokers, so then I'm gonna smell like smoke, but I'm not the source of what led to it. How can we say that we have surpluses, that we have growth, when the number of blockeds is rising at the same time and in 2017 it grew. When their debt increases. So the amount of debt blocked is initially 8 billion as the principal, now at 43 billion and still growing. Who will free a million Croatian citizens, who, consequently, cannot live a normal life because of these blockades. When you cut that number by one thousand, only a thousand of 303,000, then you'll be able to say that you've achieved some growth. This is how it's simple fairy tales. People don't see that growth. What's the growth? 130 kn as the minimum wage rose, and at the same time I don't know myself, politicians, the administration's presidents are increasing by 2, 3, 000. How much is Croatian debt, foreign debt? 291 billion kuna. Is that the surplus you've been talking about all along? ... Why is this debt not shown in statistics, because the government is leading, so-called double accounting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One is the tax revenues that they show in the budget, and the other is the external debt that is run separately, then people essentially do not see within the budget that the government is over-indebted. How much Minister Maric owed last year for highways. You forgot? Ten billion kunas. How much did they owe just for paying interest on the debt? It's 10 billion kuna again. How is it possible that in a country where we allegedly have growth, where we have surpluses, food imports have increased. Food imports increased by 10% last year. Now it's 10 billion kuna. For the last time, I've listed everything we've listed, imported even leaves, let alone food. And why did that debt grow? Because we're importing European garbage by order. The food that was collected at the warehouses and could not be sold, and it mainly gathered at the warehouses, due to sanctions that are being imposed towards Russia, to get rid of these EU food, then sent to Croatia and we are willing to accept it. At the same time, while we import that food by... Prices, destroying our own doctors, destroying our own O.P.G.s, destroying our own cattle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We destroy them from day to day; these are the figures that grow, indeed. Every day, more and more of them are being destroyed. There is growth in this segment indisputable. What benefit does Croatia benefit from the sanctions of Russia? They're running out right now, and as far as we can see, our government intends to extend them again. Before the sanctions were imposed, Russia was Croatia's 3 external trade partner. We made several billion euros in annual traffic with them. You know what Russia says now? He says please leave us the sanctions. Those sanctions, them, they don't hurt in any way. However, they do very well in their economy, as soon as they got away from the so-called so-called economy. ... So if they can't hurt them, and they haven't hurt them already full, then how many 3 or 4 years is the point of taking part in this? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why don't we sell our Mandarins where we've always sold them and that's in Russia. Here's a chance to make money. What's the outside trade with the United States or I don't know, with some other country like that, that we'd have to, as a reason to participate in sanctions. And what our Croatian soldiers have to do at the Russian border as well as in any other modern state of the world, without permission and consensus in the UN. And there's talk all the time and I see how happy some are, which I can say is that there's an even bigger increase in funding for a huge Europe. Who's the threat to Europe? Who's threatening us? NATO has the strongest army in the world. If China and Russia joined India, they didn't have the kind of military force NATO has. NATO has a nuclear weapon to destroy the entire planet of Earth five times. And they don't have enough weapons yet, we still have to set them apart. We're still lucky to have to stand out, what we're going to buy, etc. So do you really think that if there was a war and if nuclear weapons were to be used against Russia, China, no matter who, Iran, we would also not suffer the consequences. Don't you think we're not gonna die? Do you think if 20 atomic bombs fall on North Korea, we won't die because of it, that we won't have health effects? Today any war, leading to the destruction of all, is a war in which there will definitely be no winner, in which all mankind loses, all will die. And those who attack and those who are attacked. And here with such euphoria, with such passion they speak, here, we increased, we increased, you buy planes, buy anti-aircraft systems, spend 2% of GDP, I don't know how much. To defend ourselves against whom, from the Martians? So, here we are, formally in the strongest military system in the world, there are no external threats, and there are simple weapons, you should think about reducing defense and weapons separation, not increasing it. This increase has only the sole goal of increasing the profits of corporations at the expense of poor people throughout the world, hungry, children who have no education, who have no possibility of housing, who do not have the possibility of drinking water. This is the result of overarming, which is unfortunately the policy for which, as we see it, the HDZ and other puppets sitting in Brussels, and as far as we've heard, there are about 500 of them right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67297	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67298	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So the period we are discussing today is the period of the Maltese and Estonian EU presidency during 2017. This was the year when the EU's future might be most debated, there were several such proposals coming individually from some of the capitals. In his address in the European Parliament, the Commission President himself spoke about the future and its vision of the EU's future. I would mention something here that may not have been highlighted so far in the debate, which is that during the first half of 2017, the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome was also marked and where a harmonised document on the future development of the EU was adopted, and where Croatia also played a significant role in defining this document. In fact, the debates were rather harsh before that from those who sought Europe more speeds that would yet introduce certain new barriers within the EU itself to those other members who were fiercely opposed to any formulations that would go in this direction. I think that both Croatia and the Prime Minister also helped with their interventions to come up with a formula that would be acceptable to everyone, namely one concept of Europe that would allow those countries that want to integrate more into doing so, that they should not wait for some other country or late with certain reforms or simply for political reasons do not want more integration, but on the other hand, such forms of deeper integration would be open to all Member States not to set up some too high criteria that would exclude someone and reintroduce some new barriers as it was during the Cold War because these divisions would actually be the beginning of the end of the European project itself. And I think that such a formulation where Croatia played a kind of role if you want a bridge between Western and eastern EU members was very useful. The example that Croatia is ready to go in some areas, in some areas of deeper integration, is this PESCO initiative, or the structure of defence co-operation, which is not directed against anyone, which is neither in conflict with our NATO membership but which is complementary to the same association. And that is where Croatia has shown that it has both the desire and the ability to enter into this deeper integration on the defence plan. And also, of course, our aspirations to get into the Schengen, I think this year has been important because of the preparations that work in the area, technically. Of course, it was important that Croatia was given access to the information system of schengena so-called. SIS is one of the good steps towards entering the Schengen. And even then, when the new Schengen code was passed, there were real difficulties at the border, I think there was an adequate solution. A quick bilateral agreement with Hungary on moving on to targeted controls instead of the systematic one, which then led to the fact that it could be easier to focus on the issue of resolving relations with Slovenia. The Prime Minister played a key role in finding a good solution that was agreed by the Slovenian prime minister and which was mutually beneficial, especially before the tourist season, it was very useful. As far as further deeper integration such as the euro is concerned, here and we heard for the first time this year, Croatia was presented and present at the Euro Summit. I would say I must not lose sight of the importance of the EU on the trade plan. This year was also demanding because the trade agreement with Canada at one point seemed to be difficult to ratify due to certain problems primarily in Belgium. I would like to point out here that Croatia has shown its commitment to this foreign trade policy that benefits itself. In Parliament, we were actually up-to-date and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs also in preparation for this ratification, Croatia was the third country in the EU to ratify the agreement with Canada, and thus we also sent a political message that the EU remains an effective mechanism in promoting foreign trade. Finally, he would refer to the situation in Southeast Europe where Croatia's demand for this topic was also a topic of debate on the European Council. It is especially important for me to say the following about what we may not have discussed so far. In the 1990s, the principle of European integration continued to be the concept of a single Europe without those divisions from the Cold War. Hol and free in English spoke, therefore both free and whole Europe, and that was the goal. However, especially in recent years this concept has been increasingly opposed to the concept of a zone of interest. Certain countries, even outside the EU, want to recreate perhaps not the Soviet Union, may well not be the former Yugoslavia, but they want to recreate their own area of influence, an area of interest instead of accepting perhaps some other rules that would apply to all. This is particularly important in Southeast Europe, because I think that countries that are on their way to membership need to focus much more on reforms that must be made to adopt these European standards, and less on recreating such ones or creating such an area of influence where they generate more instability, than on the stability that can be achieved just by adopting European standards that every country that is in the accession process should seek. I think that Croatia has also insisted and must continue to insist on one policy of dialogue and deal with all open issues through dialogue, and there are enough in Southeast Europe. All in all, I think it is 2017 and I am going back to this first point where Croatia played one role in finding a single formulation when this document was adopted on the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, to reduce the difference between Member States especially in this concept of some Member States from the western part of the continent. On the other hand, this one from the east and that there is actually one formula that can preserve a common attachment to a European project that will respect, naturally, the sovereignty of each Member State, but that will also highlight those common points that can benefit all peoples of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67299	Thank you very much. We have a replica of a respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67300	Thank you very much. Comrade Stier, you have experience and a Europarliamentary, you've been Minister of Foreign Affairs, you've done that duty. I would ask you two questions that are important to the Republic of Croatia, and in this context also concerns the EU, the EU's recommendations, to UN conventions. Your position on declaring exclusively an economic belt. I know you supported that initiative, i.e. that you have been advocating that Croatia has this sovereign right and that this is a recommendation from the Council of the EU solely for the purpose of protecting, i.e. to control our Adriatic Sea and that there are certain rules within the Adriatic Sea. There is also your position to comment on Mr Juncker's statement where, when he spoke about Savudrija, it means when the Slovenian president lobbyed to adopt what is not theirs and to essentially what the Parliament unanimously voted Croatian to try to change, to alienate our sea, ours means the border to change, to change the conditions in Savudrija. Your position on Juncker's statement and your position on the exclusive economic belt which is numerous countries and the EU have declared as I have stated on the basis of what and why, and mainly for the protection of the sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67301	The answer of the esteemed representative of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67302	Thank you, colleague, for these questions. Croatia has the right to declare IGP. That's not controversial. I don't think I've been in the assembly for a few minutes that this question was once asked by a fellow bushman before. He probably referred to the negotiations that we had in our time HDZ and MOST when the coalition was drawn up and referred to some of the views that were then put forward. What's important is that it was then that a consensus was reached about what the government should do, and that's what the government did. So she made all the preparations, all the consultations, and that's how the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs presented it. Therefore, on this side, the task by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs was fulfilled while I was at the head of the resolution, and according to the government's conclusion, of course I gave the mandate to the competent services of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs to do so. As regards, of course, our negotiations with Slovenia and the role of the Commission. The solution is exclusively in bilateral agreement. The Commission may have a clear view there. She can say and you know that in 2015 she has taken the view that she wants to continue arbitration, but recently, especially after the work of Croatian diplomacy, the Commission has increasingly stressed the importance of dialogue between Ljubljana and Zagreb. I think we should insist on that. The only solution is an agreement, a bilateral agreement between Croatia and Slovenia. And of course that agreement, as you know according to our constitution, should then be ratified in the Assembly by a two-thirds majority. Therefore, it is less important what is something or who has said in the Commission. The most important thing is what will be at the end and the decision of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67303	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is a respected representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67304	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I can see that slowly the assembly is empty, but it's important these thoughts here to say. As a parliamentary representative, I have the opportunity to talk to all parties that are international factors let's say in Croatia, i.e. representatives of theirs, or their diplomats. Mr. Plenkovic has the same thing as our prime minister. In order to be able to make the right decisions, what is most important is to hear all parties or assess which party has better arguments for a particular matter. In the case of an LNG terminal pushing the EU, probably at the recommendation of the European Commission, a number of issues have been raised that have never been answered to the public before, and the first and main issue is the economic viability of LNG terminals. According to Lithuania's experience with Claipeda Terminal means the same LNG terminal, it has been shown that the project is a disaster, and this is why, when LNG terminal was pushed on Krk, it was suggested to people that through this LNG terminal and other central European countries gas would be supplied. The same promise was given to Lithuania once their terminal was built. But what happened? The terminal was built, Lithuania must pay millions of euros for its maintenance, but Latvia and Estonia do not want to buy gas that comes through the terminal. For what? Because the gas that comes in the form of LNG from America, Norway or from where it's already more expensive than Russian gas. I'm asking Prime Minister Plenkovic if I'm wrong to correct this information that I'm about to provide. So the Russians export Europe's gas to us in Croatia at a price of $180 to 190 per thousand cubic metres. At the same time, US and Norwegian gas is its price from $250 to $270 per thousand cubic meters, in other words the gas coming to LNG terminal will be more expensive at the beginning. This means picturesquely saying that citizens will have to pay for more expensive gas, that heating will be more expensive, that cooking lunch, dinner, whatever it costs. Now, if I'm wrong, I'm asking the Prime Minister to correct me, and I'm asking the Prime Minister to tell my colleague Pernar you're mistakenly the Russian ambassador has misinformed you, I've spoken to the American ambassador, the Americans are offering us cheaper or at least equally expensive gas. If the Americans offered us cheaper gas than the Russians, it means for a lower price than 180 to 190 dollars per thousand cubic meters, if they offered us 150 dollars, I would first say Mr. Plenkovic I congratulate you for making a deal with the Americans, a contract from which Croatia benefits. So I don't look at capital through ideological glasses. If any business is good, I'll be the first to support it, and I'm willing to support the LNG terminal. So this is not a question of America or Russia, this is a question of whether Croatia is benefiting from that LNG terminal or not. Unfortunately, the economic benefits are gone because we will have to pay not only for the maintenance of this LNG terminal but we will have to pay significantly more expensive gas. Unfortunately, the public has never talked about it. Another problem is the 300 tonnes of chlorine that will be released to the sea on an annual basis. So now you think if there's a long-term terminal standing there, so it's a daily almost a ton of chlorine pure going to sea. Are you aware of what impact on the health of the sea or marine organisms will have on such amounts of chlorine or you may not be interested in it at all. All the Green Associations of Eco Kvarners further pointed to the problem, the government not only doesn't care about the economic viability of the terminal because the gas that comes there is more expensive than the one coming from Russia but the government doesn't care about environmental damage either. And there is a third and key argument for you, which is that the people of Krk, who live there, don't want that terminal because they know that they have no use for it and that it only brings them damage in a visual sense because it rewards the environment and in terms of what it means to be ecologically harmful and in terms of what it means to be economical because that gas is expensive. Unfortunately, this government has no courage to come to the public and say, respected citizens of Krk, this is not a question of the environment at all, this is not a question of whether for your tourism this terminal is good, this is not a question of whether this gas will be more expensive, we have brought you Croatian citizens into a geopolitical game between America and Russia, and in this geopolitical game, Americans will not pay us the price that we have entered this game but you will pay. It's like a situation in Ukraine, they don't want to buy Russian coal, they buy American that's twice as expensive. But it's a political decision and people are told openly, people we're willing to buy more expensive coal because we're in bad relations with Russia. However, no one told the Croatian citizens, ladies and gentlemen, we are in bad relations with Russia, or this government advocates bad relations with Russia under the US directive, and accordingly we will have to raise the price of gas to you because we will have to import more expensive gas, we will have to damage the environment or pollute it with these tons of chlorine, and unfortunately we do not care about the opinion of the citizens of Krk. This government doesn't have the courage to tell the citizens and it's a shame and it's sad. If America said our gas was more expensive, but we will subsidize it to you or we have a solution that chlorine does not go directly to the sea to avoid polluting the sea. I'd say okay, too. Mr. Plenkovic, if there is no economic damage to the project, if you're going to open up jobs and then I can understand it. But please, Mr. Plenkovic, that when the government makes decisions, it does not make them in the interests of others, but ourselves. So I'm not here or let's just paint it like this. If the Russian gas coming through the pipes were more expensive than LNG coming to the terminal tankers, so I'd say let's get a cheaper LNG gas, let's cut people's gas bills. But unfortunately, this government's intention is the opposite, the intention of this government is actually a more expensive price of gas, to reduce the standard of living of citizens. That's the government's intention. And Live Wall is the only party in the Croatian Parliament who is ready to lead not a unilateral policy towards one of the geopolitical poles, but who is ready to sit with everyone and the Russian ambassador for lunch, but also with the American. If and accept their proposals if they are in the interest of Croatia. So this is not a question of Russia or America, this is a question of Croatian interest or not Croatian interest. I personally believe that it is in the Croatian interest to protect the Croatian borders and not the borders of Poland and Lithuania. That's my personal opinion. Of course, the government believes that the role of the Croatian army is not to protect Croatian borders, but to protect the borders of some other countries or conduct military operations in other countries such as Afghanistan, of which we have no use and to which the incredible two billion kunas have already been thrown. So the military operations in Afghanistan that resulted in what? By increasing drug production 25 times since America intervened there, by increasing the number of refugees 25 times since America intervened and by increasing the number of heroin addicts in the West and America by 24 times. What benefit does Croatia benefit from military mission in Afghanistan? These two billion kunas, the government should have directed at least a part of the salaries to the oil workers, and the other part generally into development projects in our country. But the government didn't do it. Money was dropped, but what is the point of this servant policy. When two billion kunas are spent on failed military missions, no one needs approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67305	We have one replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67306	Thank you very much, Reverend Pernar. You have well noted that the issue of the environment is very important, but unfortunately we see that the environment in Croatia is very little to worry about. We saw it in Plitvices, for example. Here last year at 12 months we have official reports from the Institute of Public Health showing that Plitvices is a catastrophic condition, but the issue is not solved as well because profits are first. We have the same case with that LNG terminal. In fact, the government should work to move towards renewable energy sources, to replace these fossil fuels with something pure. But we see, for example, that the government has abolished incentives for electric cars, while some European countries, for example, Sweden have a strategy to fully move on to electric cars in the short term. So we abolished these subsidies entirely. They used to exist during the previous government. Here's one significant step back. That really makes HDZ worse than the SDP. And here we are this year, 2017 sold 13 electric cars, so one month, 1.1. All over the world, it's a trend, so it's essentially moving on to new fuels, to move on to new industries, to protect the environment, but obviously it's not. Our goal is to give in to political pressure, and now whether or not it is possible for someone to benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67307	Thank you. Now your line will be answered by a respected representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67308	Comrade Bunjac, I expected a replica from Prime Minister Plenkovic, not from you. I expected Prime Minister Plenkovic to tell me Mr Pernar, the Russian ambassador has the wrong information, the price of gas is different. It's cheaper the gas that comes through LNG than the gas that comes from Russia. That's what I expected from the prime minister. But Prime Minister Plenkovic is aware that unfortunately the truth is not on his side, and that the LNG programme is economically invaluable for Croatia and he does not want to pollemise it. He avoids discussion and it's his modus operandi. He comes here to the Parliament, sits there, and when you tell him specific things, there are no concrete answers. I ask one more answer to the question why is LNG pushed if the citizens of Krk are against, if that gas is more expensive than what we currently have and if it is harmful to the environment because of the release of chlorine. The answer to that question, Prime Minister Plenkovic does not have. And the other thing is, you're telling us about running the state, so is it a sovereign state that can't grant a subsidy to its own shipyard? What is the EU? What's that supposed to mean when our country's in no shape, can't say you can't collect your manhood and courage and tell yourself to pay off the wages of the Oilman. You're in no condition to do that. You are powerless to make a decision to pay workers their salaries already asking permission to do so from Brussels. So what are you prime minister? So I guarantee you that if you're not able to pay the workers or make a state decision to do it, that people live I don't know from what, from the air you're no prime minister for me. For me, you're just the Vice-President of Brussels waiting for their green light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67309	Thank you. Comrade Pernar, first of all, you are not answering the Prime Minister, but colleagues of Bunjc, that's one thing. Secondly, the Prime Minister can't even replicate. Read the Rules of Procedure once, you've been here for a year. The next individual debate is those respected MPs Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67310	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Prime Minister and his associates. Here I am going back to the topic at the end of today's debate over this point. When we read these materials for this point after a certain number of pages, it actually comes to an impression and it becomes evident how much government and you personally participate in these meetings, and these are facts, because these meetings are actually about all the important topics, and during the whole day's debate somehow thanks to certain representatives, and these topics are very important not only for the citizens of the EU but also for us personally in Croatia. And looking at the broader context, they are not only important to the citizens, they are also important in both geopolitical and security terms, and with special attention to these facts that we are aware of in the past few years they have been warned by President Tajani that the situation in southeastern Europe, i.e. so on. The Western Balkans have been very alarming in recent times. It's been established at these meetings that there's an interference of the so-called. external actors or forces and that is something that is not negligible and should certainly be paid attention to and in fact requires serious concern and access that this Government is showing. I remember when the press office of Parliament issued a statement by President Tajani where he actually said that the situation in Southeast Europe could actually get out of control if we do not seriously approach the situation. And we should be aware, and I believe that we have, although from some previous discussions, it seems to me that some may not be aware of the important roles of Croatia in these relations, but the important roles of the Prime Minister as a political factor in the European environment, and it is not negligible. But from a series of topics that are the subject of this report, of course due to limited time, I will choose only one that is more focused on me, which is a digital agenda. We know that we heard that the second half of the year, i.e. the Estonian Presidency, marked the Digital Agenda, that is, working on the same agenda, and we know that Estonia has made a very big step in this regard. And recently here was Commissioner of the European Commission Mr Mimica for International Co-operation and Development actually in December of last year, and there was also a debate on Croatia's position in the context of this Digital Agenda, which is where we are at the top 10 European countries that have done the most on this topic. And now we come to one fact, I like to talk about the fact that in the previous period, or the previous governments did not do what they were supposed to do and not exactly do everything right, so we now have at the beginning of 2018 actually expected the results of the investigation for Croatia on the construction of a fast-explanatory Internet court network. And this document will actually be sent to the European Commission, which can then take appropriate measures against Croatia, i.e. against any member who does not meet the plan to allow a wide-ranging Internet minimum speed of 30 megabits per second by 2020. And now we ask the question, so and then I asked the European Commissioner how we can expect a single digital market if in previous years, so the previous governments did not take what they needed, so now we have this process. And how can we get into the top 10 countries by that famous DESI Digital Economy and Society Index so the answer was maybe a thing in the regulator, but I'd say that in that sense we actually need to look at the two relationships that were before this government and what's now from this government. So from what was before I'm going to now go into the sphere of this where we are now and it's very important. On Monday, therefore, the first contract of 12 million and 800,000 kuna is signed by Minister Pavic and Mr Gršić of the Digital Office for Technological Modernisation, which is part of this Digital Agenda. This is the first of several, of a series of contracts and all these funds have been withdrawn from the ISF for about 580 million kuna. Why haven't those funds been withdrawn before? Well, because the SDP Action Plan was not accepted by the European Commission. And only by the arrival of this government was the action plan actually adopted and we withdrew that money. And I would say, most of all, that this government has actually unlocked these funds, but it's not just 580 million kunas, so it's 2 billion and 700 million kunas plus 580 million kunas because these are all projects within digital Croatia. It's 126 projects. The next project will be signed in 1.2. it will be Minister Lovro Kuščević, etc. I have to mention this here because, during today's debate, so much inaccuracy, so much untrue on the subject that it doesn't invest in the Digital Agenda, there's no technological modernisation, there's no public administration, etc. etc. Now, here's what we're talking about facts and the facts are what I said. As I recall, it was said in May last year even at a cabinet session. And in that sense, it is also necessary to say, and responsibly, based on the monitoring of institutions, on relevant facts and on the basis of this entire digital Croatian area, that Croatia will, in fact, only in the term of this Government, let's say it digitally breathe because so far it has not been able to do so because the SDP Action Plan was rejected by the European Commission. And only in the term of this government do we start to catch up with those who are far away from it as let's say Estonia and we catch a connection with these 10, top 10 European countries. And in the end, I'm also going to mention one of my big surprises to today's opposition leaders about some kind of Facebook blockade. Why? Well, because it shows basic ignorance of that matter. It's no shame not to know, but it's bad to misinformed the public and spread the truth, and it's very bad when it comes from the leaders of the biggest opposition party and it's a bad agenda. In fact, Croatia is a state and those who know the legislation on which social media services, including Facebook, are not subject to any regulation, so neither to the Law on Electronic Media, are subject to only three articles of the Penal Code, because they generally refer to the media, which are Articles 147, 148 and 149. But they actually generally refer to the media and these are those articles that regulate crimes against honor in reputation, and then they also partially refer to computer systems or networks. But these are only three articles of the Penal Code and that is all the regulation in Croatian legislation. Therefore, to speak in this way that the government censors or blocks social media services not only Facebook but any social network is truly notorious. I will just say that the Croatian Law on Electronic Media is also part of these changes, as part of the Digital Agenda should be changed because some countries have recently made a positive step in this regard as well as in Germany because we have electronic publications at the moment. These are Internet portals and we have electronic media that are radio and television and they are subject to some kind of regulatory and some kind of control, and actually social networks are not subject to any control and they are such an object of abuse. No one's in control of freedom of speech, but we're all against abuse and hate speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67311	Thank you. And we have replicas on your exhibit. First respected representative of John Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67312	Do you know how important Croatia is in the EU? It is so important that the EU is pushing Croatia's LNG terminal project and says we will finance it for you, we will pay for that terminal. But they don't say but you'll pay for more expensive gas. So we're giving you a project worth 100 million euros, and for what? To pay for the same thing, and it's more expensive gas than we pay for it now. That is how much we care, or how much the EU cares about us, we are such an important partner. We are also such an important partner to tell us that we must respect a verdict that is unfair to us in the Piran Bay case. We are such an important partner, so important is our Prime Minister Plenkovic's important player in the EU that oil workers have not been receiving their salaries for days, we are so important. Mrs. Petrijevcanin, we are such an important factor that without the EU's permission that the state cannot intervene, it cannot pay workers their salaries. We're such an important factor, so much to ask, so much is our opinion important. Unfortunately, I see that if our opinion is important in the EU, so is your opinion here. You are simply part of a group, one of a team that implements a particular policy that is actually against Croatia's interest. Unfortunately. I wish it weren't so, I wish you'd rebel first, say it's crazy to pay for more expensive gas, poison the environment and go against the people of Krk. Or to say it's wrong that workers don't get paid. I call on the prime minister to act on the European Commission not tomorrow but yesterday to pay the workers' salaries. But you won't do it, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67313	Thank you. Here is a response from the respected representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, who will answer why the European Council does not pay salaries. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67314	Thank you, Vice President. I'm just going to say that I'm not motivated to respond to replicas that are abuse of replication institutes, which are malicious and incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67315	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67316	Thank you very much, distinguished representative Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. So you're saying that lex specialis that would ban speech on social networks is not censorship, that it is essentially aimed at preventing false, defamation and hate speech. But I want to remind you that there are already provisions in the Penal Code concerning these very issues. A three-year sentence is scheduled for hate speech. Defamation is also a punishment for prison. Here you can see on this Mandate-Immunity Commission that there are those who, even for a speech in the House, press charges for defamation of criminal, criminal charges. And we should just basically implement those measures. Why aren't they having fun? Why aren't you reacting and you've had so many opportunities in your own party to witness the various outbursts of hate. Two years ago, three of your esteemed members, Mr. Tomasevic, knocked down the stand of the Living Wall, physically attacked our activists, physically attacked. And then did you react? You're not. You only reacted when he attacked your interests, not your citizens' interests. In the same way you now want to arbitration on social networks in a way that does not criticise you, not to mention you. The same way you want to change Parliament's Rules of Procedure. You don't want to hear different opinions. You don't want to hear it, and that's me having to tell you the honest way into dictatorship. Such a way, toss the parties simply, toss the Parliament, toss out Facebook and listen to ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67317	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67318	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, generalizing on your part that for all the problems of the present, past and future guilt this government is therefore already slowly bordering on science fiction and becoming personally annoying to me. But instead of you reading what's done, you're pulling out this modus operandi, you're pulling out a problem that can be in any country and it's not unique for Croatia. You connect this problem with HDZ as the culprit, insert yourself or a colleague or general party Live wall as the main guardian and as the only one who cares for the people in Croatia and let it out of the assembly into the air. You throw it away as an evil seed and it is naturally accepted in broad masses, because many people are, of course, disappointed by some past policies that are not the responsibility of this Prime Minister, neither of me personally, nor most of them here colleagues if not all. But we suffer, of course, the consequences of bad policies, but we are not responsible. But you can certainly bear the responsibility for constant manipulation in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67319	Thank you. The next individual debate is that respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67320	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, fellow MPs. So I thought I'd talk about some other topics, maybe not as media-interesting as social policy and so forth. But I'm simply offered this debate today, so I'd like to explain some perhaps basic concepts that are often misrepresented and transmitted to the public or simply not understood. Namely, as regards the European Union, why is it created, what are its responsibilities, what is Croatia's position in it? The EU has primarily created to protect peace in Europe. So its historical role and historical creation through the Coal and Steel Community, so the European Economic Community and the Roman Treaties were primarily to create a system of institutional and legal rules where problems would be solved before courts, not through work, and primarily through areas that could then simply be regulated at a common level around which there was a certain level of political consensus, which is a common market, freedom of movement of goods, services, capital, business creation and people on the European market. This system rests on the right, on EU operating contracts and on EU contracts as basic legal acts and regulations that regulate who can and cannot. We have a clear division of jurisdiction here, and I can see that some are not clear. So when we talk about the European Commission, the European Commission is a body with its powers and its place in the EU system. There may be formal and informal conversations with them, but when it comes to what they can or can't do there are things clearly defined by regulations. Why am I saying that? Because there was mention of the Piran Bay and the border dispute and there was said that the EU is forcing us to do something, the Commission is forcing us, suing us, not suing us, etc. I mean, legally, there are several ways that can be done. For example, one country can sue another country for violating EU law. Anyone who knows anything about EU law will say that the issue of bilateral border disputes does not fall within the acquis communaurs in the EU's jurisdiction and in the body of law that the EU regulates. And the EU cannot, on the principle of the powers conferred on it, go beyond what, those powers conferred by the Member States. It is another way to do so by the European Commission which will not surely go beyond its competences, and the third is the competence that arises from Article 273. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU when the European Court of Justice, or the Court of Justice, can settle arbitration disputes. However, as European Court of Justice President Kun Leonards has already said, this is only possible if Member States have reached an agreement to grant such jurisdiction to the European Court of Justice. This means that Croatia should agree to this. So there is no way that Slovenia or anyone else can force Croatia through the EU institution to give in, to its territory or something like that. And it is very important that the Croatian public knows. And I think there's a lot of disinformation about it. Of course that doesn't mean that theoretically some state may not be able to initiate some procedure, but I think it's quite clear how such a procedure will end. Another thing I would point out is the role and opportunities of Croatia within the EU when speaking of the EU as a whole. Again, the EU does not exist as a whole, Croatia is part of the EU. Croatia participates, the Prime Minister participates in the European Council, and the European Council is an institution that makes broad political decisions that are then passed through the legislative bodies into the EU legal legislation that Member States must implement. The EU legislators are a Council called the EU Council or the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament. However, what I would point out is that if you look at the role of the Member States in the European Parliament and the Council, you will see that today, even today, small countries are still overrepresented to large countries. Compare the number of German MPs in the European Parliament and Croatia, you will see that Germany, which has 20 times the population, has 9 times the number of representatives in the European Parliament, which means that Croatia is double represented in relation to Germany, which is important to highlight. So the EU has institutional legal mechanisms so that small Member States can in some way, conditionally, protect and protect their interests. As far as decision-making is concerned, very rarely there is a clear division of the type to the big countries on one side, small countries on the other side. I was doing an analysis for a conference at law school that showed that the differences between states are entirely on other grounds, completely different reasons. Sometimes France and Italy vote together if, for example, the Socialist Government is both in one and the other. Sometimes depending on the interests of another Member State, they vote with others, etc. And there, so things aren't black and they can't be set up that way. Also, some European politicians, who are perceived by Eurosceptics as being as skeptical as the euro, are against the EU, that for national sovereignty as they are likely to be, have called before the BREXIT referendum on British voters to stay in the EU. Let's just say that's one thing that's rarely mentioned. Why? Because these Member States view the EU as a mechanism through which you can protect your interest but then you need to know how to achieve it and it is not a noise in the Assembly. Finally, as regards the state aid that you mentioned and mentioned indirectly, the foundation of the European economic community since the beginning and then the EU is a common market, we have already said. This common market, if anything cannot be tolerated, is protectionism and state support. Why? Because state support gives some opportunities that could be better exploited economically, economically, elsewhere. Of course, there is a possibility that there may also be justifications when it is in a certain public interest, when it is for regional development, etc., there are also provisions, but therefore there is a system which is developed, for which a Member State must notify such matters to the EU, the European Commission and obtain adequate approval from it. And these are all the things that have their logic, their own reason why they exist and it's normal to function and it's normal to exist and function for almost 60 years. And that's what's important to stress in order to discuss these topics, we need to know the subject, so enough to say we're against everything but we need to know that within the framework that exists we can protect our interests. It means that we can justify some of the things we do, where we're giving up maybe some of the rules but we can justify them to someone else. I think it is important and that this is what the Croatian public needs to understand, that we are part of the EU, that we have a framework through which we can act and that, with the efforts of our government, we make the most of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67321	Thank you. And on your exhibit, we have a replica, the first respected representative of Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67322	Thank you very much, Reverend Falcone, for telling us a little bit about history. But look, if we're going to talk about history, we're going to go back 1200 years, when there was a country like France that was surprisingly similar to today's EU that came to conquer Croatia. At the time, you had two Croatian, Pannonian and Dalmatian. Dalmatia's Croatia stood on the side of Franaka, Ljudevit Posavski wanted to fight, lost his head in the fight. So we have two currents, which current do you belong to? I assume you belong to that combat current, so the current of Dalmatian Croatia. We belong here in the Living Wall to the current of Ljudevit Posavsky, we are for fighting and resistance. But look, you're going to say okay, we have two sides, two Croatians, we can even say that even today, but look at history textbooks, who's shown as a positive? Borna or Ljudevit Posavsky? Who was portrayed as a positive in the 19th century, Ladislav Pejačević or Ante Starcevic? Why isn't Ladislav Pejačević at 1000 kuna instead of Ante Starčević? Why don't we have a statue of Levin Rauch here? Because they said Croatia can't do it alone, Croatia is too small, it has to obey foreign influences, we have to listen to Hungarians, Austrians, Germans, I don't know who. You see, you may now be just as much as that Levin Rauch and Ladislav Pejačević have some benefit but history will judge you, history will value what you are doing now and it is really a struggle that lasts all the time but you must be aware that in the future once and whenever that day is, Croatia will indeed be a sovereign and independent country. And we, however small, and as much as we get on your nerves, all of us knowers of that Croatia. Let me bring it to you clean as some sort of opinion we're going to say even wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67323	Thank you. Thank you very much for this replica, which is really closely related to the held meetings of the European Council in 2017, and will respond to that by the respected representative Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67324	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I am saying, and I'm sorry that I couldn't actually bring up the debate as I originally wanted to talk about the subject itself, but I think it's important and explain the broader context. So Croatia remains an independent state within the EU. On the other hand, no country is absolutely independent, you are never independent, you are always dependent on others in one way or another, economically, especially if you are a little economic that cannot live without free trade, geopolitically, traffically, energy, in any other way. So you depend on someone else whether you want it or not. If you look at how Croatia would be in a position, was Croatia more independent before or after entering the EU? I would say that our political situation and legal and all the others were much more difficult and were de facto less sovereign until we were in the EU, but now that we are here and we can use our position in the decision-making system to participate in this decision. You have an example of small countries that know very well how to protect their interests, and this is where the EU provides mechanisms. For example, corporate taxation. Corporate taxes are being decided unanimously by the EU Council of Ministers today because this is one of the strongest mechanisms for protecting the sovereignty of EU Member States. Some small ones, such as Ireland or Luxembourg, have for years made it impossible to balance tax regulations in one segment that suits them. I'm not saying whether it's good or not, I'm not going into it, but I want to say when you're involved in the decision-making process when you can go through lobbying and through meetings, so it's good to have this report on the meetings of the European Council, when you can and formally and informally act, then you can protect your interest. If you are formally out of line and formally sovereign, in practice you will be unfortunately most often because they will be able to blackmail you much more, you will be less sovereign than when you are in an association in which you can participate in the decision-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67325	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67326	Your Honor, you said the following thought, you said there was a single market in the EU, but what does the single market mean to you? It's kind of like this. Some shipyard in Ireland has a VAT of, say, 10% or 12% and a shipyard in Croatia has a VAT 25%. Which shipyard will have a more favourable price for the final buyer? Here I am listening to you, wise question. Here's another example. The shipyard in Ireland will have an interest rate of 2% on credit, and look at what interest it receives or offers to Uljanika even with a state guarantee. In Ireland, the state does not have to guarantee private credit companies. But we have a bigger interest in that, too. Did you ask yourself that question? You're not. Here are a million other examples that show you that small countries cannot go into a single market with large players without their economies being massacred, especially agriculture. And you of HDZ assured us otherwise that when we enter the EU, not that farmers will be left without a domestic market, you were telling a lie that a market of half a billion people will be opened where we will be competitive and export. It's a free market policy for you. And what did she bring to Croatia? Mass imports of food and mass destruction of villages and the destruction and disappearance of the village. That's the policy of the single market. And one more thing, some countries have an understated course, some depressed. The EU has set us up with an accommodated course, making everything more expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67327	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67328	Thank you, Vice President. So we're having another discussion that doesn't have much to do with facts, but we're going in line. When did Croatia have bigger interest when entering the EU or after? ... So if we monitor economic growth and Croatia's development, we will see that exactly the positive effects of joining the EU, means opening up the market and strengthening exports lead to economic growth again leading to an improvement in the credit rating along with, of course, all the government's activities that have led to less interest. [[Pernar, you don't understand.]] And that is exactly what you wanted to show on one side, in fact, you showed exactly the opposite that this common EU market along with a country that knows how it can be handled can lead to less interest and to export growth and economic growth and, for the first time, practically in the history of an independent Croatia is overestimated by the state budget. It's the facts. It's just numbers, and those numbers can't be undone. Secondly, when we talk about what the EU has brought, you and some of your club members have devoted a lot of their political action to protecting consumers. Do you know that consumer protection regulations have just come from the EU? So this is exactly one of those initiatives that came from the EU level that then the Member States had to implement through their legislation. And it is the EU who has made a big step there and it is only one area. So again, things aren't black white, things aren't as simple as you want to show them. But what matters when we talk about some things like economic growth, development, interest, means moving interest rates, credit ratings at least learn some basic facts before you discuss them in the Parliament. Here I am, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67329	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67330	Representative Sokol, you've told the history of the EU and the system of decision-making. Even in your speech it literally came that we are stronger than Germany, you said proportionally, but that makes the impression in public that we are stronger than Germany. When you talk about facts and history, then we need to talk about joining the EU, and we remember that the constitution has been changed at that time, that 50% of voters should not go out when voting to join the EU. It's unconstitutional, we've violated the Constitution. And it should not be so indignant and underestimating people who say what is not good in the EU and what is wrong. Because we need to see these facts about the state of agriculture. We are talking about the safety of 2/3 of Croatia empty, farms empty, Slavonia empty, Dalmatian Zagora, Gori Kotar mountain, Ravni kotar. That's a fact. We are talking about promises when it came to the EU, pre-accession that there was a unanimous vote in this House for EU entry, but it was not the voter's position and more than 30% of voters did not come out in total. It did not vote for EU apology, it did not come out, 50 plus 1 did not go out. And for the village, on the local board or in Kotar where you live for the referendum, any decision if you call the triba 50 plus 1%. You want to pass the shaft on one side of the road or the other. Here in a key decision, it was not discussed properly, joining the EU. And you speak of sovereignty, of independence. So in the case of Savudria independence. We have this kind of independence, and what is Croatian independence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67331	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67332	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's fellow Bull, here's just a few things. As for the bribe that some countries decide everything in the EU, see some countries are in international relations stronger than some others. It's natural. Some are bigger, richer, it is so and it will always be so formal or informal. However, if you have a legal system that works by some rules, then things are not entirely who is stronger than that clutch. The European Union is exactly an example of this, because thanks to this EU we have avoided wars and major crises in those countries that are in the EU for so long. Let's say you know that in the vote of the Council of Ministers of Germany was more often on, first 80% of decisions are taken unanimously to understand each other, meaning to the Council of Ministers than those rules that the EU makes, 80% unanimously. Of these remaining 20%, Germany is more often on the side that it is too loud than it is some other country like Italy or Spain. So things aren't that simple, it depends on a lot of coalitions, a lot of interstate relations, etc. So let's not simplify things when it's just not the place. As far as the referendum itself is concerned, so the Constitution has changed, the Constitution reads as it says. In practice, it would be very difficult to realise the need to achieve most of the voters among other things because, especially then, the electoral lists were in the state they were in, so that, unfortunately, that number was too high and we all know it and then measures were taken to reduce that number. So this is probably closer to reality than it would have been to voting lists that weren't simply correspondence with reality. As far as the debate is concerned, I am very sorry that when the debate was held, I know because I have also organised some stands on this particular topic that was against the EU did not find any excess arguments against the EU. She could have found some, but what was said again showed an insufficient level of information, things that simply did not stand as if foreigners could buy Croatian real estate, and they had the right to do so in 2009. So I don't know the elemental things that made it impossible, unfortunately, for a serious debate, and I want you to be discussed, so I hope that you will contribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67333	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and the SNAGA, five minutes will be spoken by the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67334	Dear colleagues from HDZ, I see that you are very concerned about the EU project, and therefore you are accusing us of selectively or untruely informing the public. The information works, I'll read you the real data, this is the data, check this out for 2015. So they're old, let's say two and more years. The decline in beef production in Croatia, 10%, pork 24%, milk drop 15%. And you know what's next? Imports of beef, from the EU to Croatia, increased over 100%. Same thing with pork, same thing with milk production. Let me tell you the situation in milk production. Such that 70% of producers have failed since they joined the EU. Do you know that? Do you know if milk cows go to slaughterhouses because milk production is not worth it in Croatia? But in Croatia, milk is spent. So it's not that the milk market is gone, it's that the milk producers are gone, because they can't compete with import milk. Do you know what a free market means for our dairy industry? Are you aware, have you ever thought about it? Have you wondered? And you know what I'm going to tell you? The milkman Ivan Hadjasi near Bjelovar, he took... You're talking about cheap loans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He took those credits that you were pushing him to as the Ministry of Agriculture, and then when he realized he couldn't get them back, that the system was unsustainable, he blew himself up with a bomb. And you here with 17 or 14.5 thousand kuna wages claim that joining the EU has brought us good. Who did he bring good to? 11 bureaucrats in Brussels who receive 5,000 euros in salaries, they do. But to a Croatian peasant, no, I don't know what reality you live in. Do you know, maybe you know, that the milkers, not before the break, are broken. Do you see the buses of young people from Slavonia leaving? Do you realize that agriculture disappears like a branch? Are you aware of that, Mr. HDZ? Obviously not. You don't realize that the key development factor of all, you know? The exchange policy, you all know it, is known by Prime Minister Plenkovic, and also Minister Maric, Finance. And you know that if the kuna is overrated by 20% automation that the currency in other countries is underrated its value and if the difference is only 20%, if we make our products 20% more expensive than we should, through the applied course, and another EU member depreciates it, so it's automatically cheaper than that from France, but it's not clear to you. Because you don't realize that the EU is asking us to run a exchange rate policy in which the CNB is a currency exchange book, in which the kuna is a bonus for the euro. And you say the interest was reduced, so that's what they told the Greeks the interest was reduced. So what? There's a catastrophic monetary policy going on and on about the budget surplus, so that's what your colleague Bunjac told you, you know how you do projections. If there's a surplus in the budget, what's a three-year assignment new for 170 billion kuna? So why do we have those duties if we have an extra one. You know what your crazy logic is, next. You, let's say you're a natural person, you have credit rates to pay, you have electricity bills. You don't pay credit and electricity rates for the current month and you say I'm this month's plus. That's your logic. You have 7.8 billion kuna in health care, you say I won't pay for them this year. You'll say I have a plus in the budget. Well, that's how Ivica Todoric could have done it, so he explained it, just like you. He just didn't pay his dues, and he said he was doing a very good job. Well, that's your policy in HDZ, you're gonna charge this country a debt, you're gonna sell out everything alive and inanimately and you're still gonna brag. They'll say more your prime minister, I've reduced unemployment. So who are you kidding, God's people? You all know you didn't increase the number of employees, but the number of unemployed fell to r people fled the country. That's your policy, that's your score. The disappearance of Slavonia, the destruction of the shipyard, you've already closed the Queen. You're going to close the oil now, and the next thing you know, it's May 3rd, because this year, he's going to stop coming to support him. Without state support, on that common market that you are fighting over, third May will be ruined, and then their workers will be found in the same situation as the oil workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67335	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67336	Comrade Pernar, here, I don't know which time he listened to your theories about loans and everything else. First of all, the correction, so it's not the Queen's shipyard that's closed, it's just building... ferry for the Rape navigation, so they have work to do and will continue to work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Very hardworking people, and don't tell the truth. Second of all, as far as the loan is concerned, there's a colleague of the Bunjac next to you. Can you try your theory of credit default on him? Why are you telling people they don't need to pay back their loans, and a colleague of Bunjac, say, has a few, I won't tell them how many, and they have to pay them back neatly. Why? Why does he have to pay them back if they're invaluable? Is that true for someone else, and you in the Living Wall don't apply. Well, of course you have to repay the loan. Where did you go to get him? To the bank. You didn't take it to Dolca, at the market, you took it to the bank. Why did you go to the bank and not like that bank so much? What was the need for? So be honest, live what you say. And you don't tell the people, you don't have to pay back the loans, the state, you don't have to pay back the loans, we're all out, we're going out of the EU, you don't have to pay back anything. What are you talking about? So be serious. That's your missing part, people don't take you seriously because you don't live like that. If anyone has loans, they have to be returned. Of course there's a problem with that, but be honest and tell me, I have so many credits in the Living Wall and I'm giving them back. Why don't you say so? Doesn't that work for you? Here, give him that theory. Spend it on him on a colleague of Bunjc's, and then you can try it on some other people. Don't lie to people and convince them of something you don't believe yourself and act completely different. Here's what I had to say after a lot of your theories here without any evil intentions. But here's an explanation. What do you think about why he should be repaying loans and they're invaluable? Here, explain that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67337	The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67338	I'd like to look first at the question of the Royal Shipyard, if it had started working last year after five years which didn't work and with 150 people working, yes. So you can all shipbuilding awareness of the number of employees of 150 people and say that all shipyards work. But the question is how many total Croatia has carried out ships under such shipyards. As far as credit default is concerned, it is not a question of credit default whether a colleague of Bunjac can pay him as a parliamentary representative but is a matter of theoretical loan default because banks only give him credit principals and not money to pay interest. So when I say credits aren't repayable, I say at the macro level, that means that the state of the Republic of Croatia can't repay loans, that shipyards can't repay loans, that highways can't repay loans, that railways can't repay loans, that Agrokor 40 billion loans can't repay. And what you're going to say is, you're going to say let Pernar all of this you find five cases of people returning loans in Croatia and then, on a case-by-case basis, you're drawing a general conclusion that credits are repayable, although it's clear that in a globally non-refundable, but sometimes in certain cases they're repayable. But since you are advocating the repayment of credit and claim that they are repayable and can be returned, I urge you to give advice to non-payable oil workers, whose banks have started to sit with blockades on account of how they can settle their credit wars, explain to them that the loans are repayable, to them nicely explain it, then you will realize that loans cannot be returned to the global and that they need to change the monetary system and that the CNB must stop being a currency exchange. And just because it's good for you and you personally can repay your loans doesn't mean anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67339	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, five minutes will speak the respected representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow MPs and MPs, dear Prime Minister. Practice is good and what is said to praise what is good, so we are still discussing this topic. However, other opinions need to be heard. It's not the EU's cow world, you should hear the voice and those who don't think what they mean by ruling or the opposite of ruling or the same. However, as Croatia participates in solidarity in helping Africa with asylum, it is positive, but our citizens are currently more interested in our strategic goals, which are agriculture in which Croatia's agriculture is currently in condition. It is the role of Prime Minister Plenkovic to fight for our farmers. The fact is that we produce less, as far as dairy production is concerned, we produce 70% less than we did when we were in the EU, these are facts. Shipbuilding, not only do we not produce more ships, but people leave us, professional, qualified people who know from the welder to the designer, they're problems. You must fight as you say for the safety of every man, for the stability of the Republic of Croatia. But stability isn't just the familiarity with the Brussels Brussels people of Juncker's leading, Juncker, Tusk what's the interest of the Croatian man. The results haven't been good since we joined the EU, that's a fact. We see how many fewer inhabitants we have in Croatia, we see that we are paying more EU membership fees than it is coming back. And we must not be critical primarily of you to the prime minister on several occasions you have been critical of people who do not have the same attitude in the EU as you. Why would all people have the same attitude about the EU, about the Council of Europe as you or anyone else do? The fact is that two-thirds of Croatia has moved out literally. I believe we can all contribute together to stop the eviction, I believe we can preserve shipbuilding, that the money that the state subsidized for shipbuilding to build ships, to keep those people from going to Asia, to Africa, to Ireland. It's our mission to us that the people chose to be their representatives and you as executive authorities. When I just remember one letter just to let the review be, the letters of EU officials, just to get the revision into the CNB, we got some kind of objection from a European official. Even here, we are not prepared to accept the law of the Republic of Croatia. I expect the prime minister, of all ministers, to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and the EU, as I said, is not a sacred cow. Croatia must not be their store of their bad products, Croatia must be a producer of the EU market to sell its products. Unfortunately, it's not like that. But I believe that in Croatia it can be so. I believe the people who have left will return to Slavonia, and hundreds of them are thousands, I believe they can return. It's not a problem to return the cattle to the farms, who's going to keep it that's the problem, who's going to take care of it. We don't have children, we don't have children's wages, as in my Dalmatian Zagora, so in Gorski Kotar, with flat wheels, there's no life. That's the problem. You are talking about security with the EU, talking about anything, if we have a territory without people, if I have 2/3 of Croatia empty, the EU does not work in the interest of the Croatian people. And you have that bridge, you need to change, like we Parliamentarians, agree or disagree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67341	Thank you. Believe it or not, and we have a replica on your exhibit, a distinguished representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67342	Dear counterpart Bulj, you have perfectly pointed out the problem, by entering the EU, i.e., after entering the EU, Croatia has lost 300,000 inhabitants. The number of employees is smaller than it was. They've picked up all the directors, they've picked up the highways, they've picked up the boatery, they've picked up the boat, they've collected the people who drive the ferry. It's all picked up. The VAT is a record 25%. These are HDZ successes, Slavonia leaves mass, oil workers, quits and goes out to work because they do not want to work without pay. That's not what you ladies and gentlemen are interested in. Your plan, which has HDZ, is not a plan in terms of developing this country, not in terms of rural development, not in the direction of industrial development, not in the direction of tourism development, you push projects that are of no use, you run a policy of which we have only damage. This is your result of your policy. On a military mission in Afghanistan, two billion kunas have been spent so far. What could we do in Croatia for that money? Miracles. But they don't know you. It's just what you're told, that's what you do. You are talking about a single market on credit repayment, etc. What kind of a single market, what kind of credit payoff? Our state of the Republic of Croatia is unable to repay a single loan without taking a new loan. Are you aware of what that means? You are leading the policy of endless borrowing and repayment of credit, by taking new loans, as led by Ivica Todorovic and there you are petting our eyes with lower interest. If this policy is as good as you claim, then why privatization of HEP, why privatization of highways, why the introduction of real estate taxes, ladies and gentlemen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67343	Thank you. Of course, you've reenacted the Prime Minister, not even colleagues to Bulju, but that seems to have gone into your habit, abused that institution, and that's one of the reasons why we have to change our rules of procedure. Here's my colleague Bull, I hope you'll say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67344	Thank you very much, President. Rules of Procedure, here is what you said, the Rules of Procedure must not be changed, in order to prohibit speaking in Parliament, there are MPs here, neither by order of Andrej Plenkovic nor by order of yours. The MP has his position, you have a businessman, you respect, but no, as your intention is to forbid us from speaking, you will not. You agreed with Ivan Pernar, or you disagreed with Mir Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67345	Buddy Bull, you can't replicate to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67346	I believe you've given Mr. Pernar an indication, He's replicated me, so I can use my replica. [[Intruder Reiner: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67347	No, no, you can't, you can't replicate with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67348	When you can use it, I can use it. Mr Pernar, the fact is that as a representative you express your views in your own way, as you say, you are elected to this Parliament, I believe that Croatia must not lead either Russian, nor American politics, but Croatian politics. [[Intruder Reiner: You can't.]] That's what we need to do. And that's our obligation to the world. This is the Croatian House, where people have given us their trust and we must fight here in Parliament, as far as fighting in the Council of Europe, our parliamentarians in the European Parliament, and as far as the EU is concerned, you are right. Since we joined the EU, the worst results have been, in all matters, and the most painful is a demographic picture. It's a fact of EU accession, we've lost 100 thousand young people. And the only thing we are is the market for bad products, mainly food products, from the EU and in Croatia, agriculture, industry, all that matters for development. The only thing we have left, Mr. Pernar, is a tourist destination, where foreign products are sold, and that needs to be changed, that's our role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67349	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the rapporteur, the Prime Minister, Honored Andrej Plenkovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67350	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I thank you for today's debate, I think we have managed to comment on these few hours, the key points, which were on the agenda of the European Council in 2017, thanks to everyone for the content debate, including our colleagues from Mosta, etc. IGP to modernists, our friends from the Living Wall, who show themselves to the heirs of Ljudevit Posavsky, and would not pay any debts, would leave the EU and probably direct the Navy to the Savudrija wave. We'll have a chance on all topics. Thank you very much and goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67351	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We will meet again tomorrow at 9.30 and the first point will be the proposal for a Law on State Property Management, first reading, P.Z.E., No. 256. Good night. Session adjourned at 1920 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-17-0.u67352	We are now going to vote on the debated points. The first is the report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held in 2017. He is the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Party, the Croatian Social and Liberal Party of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club, Reformists and Independent Representatives, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings of the European Council held in 2017 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 108 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and 2 votes against the adopted Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held in 2017. ... What? [[You can't hear it.]] Well, no one asked. Now I have to ask you if you want to take a break. ... All right, here you go. [[I can't hear you.]]
