ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95540	Good afternoon. It's 9.30 a.m. We can either start for the Zagrebers at half past 10. - Proposal for a Law on the Accessibility of Networks and Software Solutions for Public Sector Movement Devices, P.Z.E. No. 409 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 409 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. As I said, this is the first reading, the debate was conducted, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. If the proposing representatives would like to give an additional explanation, State Secretary, Mr Bernard Gršić of the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society is here with us, you may go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95541	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable parliamentary representatives, we have before us a proposal for a Act on the Accessibility of Networks and Program Solutions for Movement Devices of the Public Sector, adopted by the government at its session on 19 July 2018 and referred it to the Croatian Parliament as a proposal. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 2(4), second subparagraph, second subparagraph, point (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph, is replaced by the following: Article 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says special care, is dedicated to protecting persons with disabilities and involving in social life. The law on the accessibility of networks and software solutions for public sector mobile devices is adopted in the Croatian legislation, EU Directive 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26.10.2016 on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies. Since there is no regulation in the Republic of Croatia that would regulate the question of accessibility to all users' digital content, it is in the making of a new law, in accordance with the provisions of that Directive. Croatia as a signator of key conventions and standards in the field of social and economic security of citizens has assumed the obligation to protect and promote human rights of persons with disabilities with the aim of their equal participation in civil economic political, cultural and social areas of life. In this regard, Croatia also participated in the adoption of that directive. The Directive entered into force on 22 December 2016 with a view to harmonising Member States' national legislation with a more fundamental principle of inclusiveness and accessibility, ensuring that websites and software solutions for mobile devices are available for part of the public sector of persons with disabilities, older persons and other vulnerable groups at the level at which those services are available to other citizens. The EU acquis for 2018, adopted by the Government at its session on 21 December 2017, was set by the Central State Office for the Development of the Digital Society. In early March 2018 an expert working group was established, which appointed representatives of the Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Ministry of Science and Education, Ministry of Administration, Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and Trade, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, justice, Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. Representatives of Croatian Academy and Research CARNET, representatives of the Croatian Alliance of the Blind, representatives of the queen of pensioners of Croatia, the union of persons with disabilities of Croatia, HUP, HGK, the Commissioner for Information and representatives of the central state office for the development of digital society. After implementing the prescribed procedure, the law is addressed to e-consultation, which lasted for a full month. During the e-consultation, there were no objections or additional opinions. The draft law was submitted to the GSV, at the time of the opening of the consultation, as well as after the completion of the consultation. Public sector bodies are increasingly using different forms of electronic communication to provide public with information and services in the field of their activities. It is therefore important that this content is available to all users, in particular to vulnerable groups, who often remain attached to digital content due to different forms of disability. The purpose of this law is to make web pages and software solutions for mobile devices, more accessible, not only to persons with special needs, but also to all users, who, for example, will have more opportunities to access content under difficult conditions of visibility. It will also enable older people to play an active role in society to a greater extent, including the extension of their working life, if they so wish. As a result of the report on persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, 511850 people live in Croatia in March 2017, accounting for 11.9% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. The highest number of people with disabilities, 243,000 are working age from 19-64, while in age group 65 and over are 230000. The disability is also present in childhood, meaning 0-19 years in the share of 8%. Out of the total number of people with disabilities according to data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health with visual impairment is 17 thousand 377 persons and blindly in both eyes 3 thousand 326 people. At the same time with hearing damage is 13,000 461 people and with deafness 2 thousand 861 people. The person with the damage to the engine system is about 151,000. With intellectual damages of 24 thousand 669 and multiple damages in total, there are 151 thousand 517. In addition to the figures according to the data provided by the Association of Blind Zagreb, persons with dyslexia who have an average of 10% in each society should be added. In 2017, the Croatian Government adopted a National Strategy for equating opportunities for people with disabilities from 2017 to 2020 with the aim of progress and further promoting the rights of persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities. Its 9th Chapter Information, communication and awareness-raising emphasises the obligation of the State to enable persons with disabilities to search, receive and forward public information and information on public services and to provide them with access to personal data and electronic communications in the public sector on an equal footing with other members of society. There is also a strong role in the development of communication technology that will make it easier for people with disabilities to access different information and declares the obligation of all not only public authorities but also private sector bodies to take into account the fact that information should be made possible to all citizens or to comply with accessibility standards. Furthermore, the e-Croatia 2020 strategy, also adopted in 2107 through the e-Inclusion chapter, concluded that national legislation does not so far define the need to ensure the availability of websites in the public sector. Guidelines for the creation of a website for a central state portal require greater availability in accordance with the guidelines for accessibility of websites and directives. The need to further ensure the involvement of sensitive groups in the use of electronic services is stressed, not only through information, on the possibilities of obtaining these services but also by developing their skills and knowledge. This law will ensure the implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia under the Directive as well as the achievement of the objectives set out in the National Strategy for Equalisation of opportunities for persons with disabilities from 2017 to 2020 and the e-Croatia 2020 strategy. The law prescribes requirements regarding the accessibility of network sites and software solutions for mobile devices in order to make them more accessible to all users and especially disabled persons. Accessibility shall be achieved by applying the principles and techniques to be taken into account when drawing up networks. Such standards provide, for example, that there should be a text that describes them or that websites can be viewed without the use of mice which facilitates accessibility to the content of people with disabilities. Accessibility requirements are met through four criteria, which are the possibility of observation, interoperability, understanding and stability. For the time being, they are considered satisfied if they comply with the European standard of accessibility requirements that are suitable for the procurement of products and services of information and communication technology in Europe. Obligations to the application of the law are state administration bodies and other state bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, public law bodies as defined by the law governing public procurement and associations established by those bodies if such associations are established for the specific purpose of meeting the need for general interest and have no industrial or commercial significance. Public sector bodies shall include bodies covered by the Public Procurement Act. The reason is that the Accessibility Directive refers to Directive 2014/24, the Public Procurement Directive which has already been adopted into Croatian legislation through the said public procurement law. The law regulates exemptions from its application in respect of certain networks and software solutions for mobile devices in accordance with the provisions of the Directive, so that the law does not apply to public radio television, kindergartens, primary and secondary schools and dormitories. The application of the law also excludes certain content of the web pages as e.g. documents not primarily intended for use on web sites. So the documents in PDF, word format, doc, etc. And so on. The law imposes an obligation on public sector bodies to publish and regularly update a declaration of accessibility regarding the compliance of their websites and software solutions for mobile devices in accordance with the draft statement adopted by the European Commission by means of an implementing act. Furthermore, the law prescribes the obligations to carry out training and awareness-raising activities, public sector bodies and other relevant stakeholders in relation to accessibility and determines the authorities responsible for their implementation and these are the Commissioner for Information, the State School for Public Administration, the Central State Office for the Development of the Digital Society and the roof national organisation of persons with disabilities. The obligation to submit a report to the European Commission on the results of monitoring the compliance of websites and software solutions is also prescribed. For the purpose of monitoring the compliance and submission of the report, the Commissioner for Information shall be responsible and the first report shall be submitted by 23 December 2021. The law provides for a delay in its application in relation to individual network sites and software solutions for mobile devices. In accordance with the Directive, this law shall apply from 23 September 2019 to bodies whose websites are published after 23 September 2018. The suspension of the application is foreseen for all those public sector bodies that have websites published before 23 September 2018. For software solutions for mobile devices, the provisions of the law shall apply from 23 September 2021. The bodies of the public sector which are the bonds of application of this law will have the resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia under their regular activities. The cost of the national budget for 2019 and the projections for 2020 and 2021 is estimated compared to €250,000 for the employment of a consultant in the Information Commissioner's Office. Finally, the adoption of this law provides easier access to public services and information to all users with special emphasis on persons with disabilities and older people who will help them in their daily lives and enjoy their rights throughout the Union to provide a wide range of information and services on the Internet that are crucial to the public and to ensure better quality of life, i.e. greater involvement of vulnerable groups of society and their members in digital society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95542	Thank you, too. If the committee's reporters want one replica, Mr Totgergeli, I've seen you, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95543	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I watched a little bit of your site so I saw that the pilot started a project certification of websites... So I'm just curious to have you explain a little bit to me, considering you yourself said that there are no regulations yet with us, and usually when we confirm something, it's a body or an institution that's authorized to do it, just how it is during this pill project imagined, who and how it should actually be done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95544	Thank you, too. Would you like to respond? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95545	Thank you, Vice President, thank you for asking. So this is not the initiative of the central state office, but is the initiative of the Alliance of Blind Cities of Zagreb which organised the conference in which they presented the way in which websites or websites should be developed and their proposal is to launch certification. So certification is not intended by law but is one form that you would say the pages are harmonised and checked by persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95546	Thank you very much. Now I ask again the question I asked before time. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. And then I open the debate, first Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic came forward in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Here I am at the beginning of this debate expressing great satisfaction because after many years since the Republic of Croatia signed the UN Convention, this law has finally been passed. As you have noted, the purpose of this law is to make web pages and software solutions for public sector mobile devices more accessible and not only for disabled persons but also for all other users. Croatia also adopted a strategy last year for equating opportunities which, as well as the convention, regulates the area of accessibility. This law ensures the implementation of, or obligations of, the Republic of Croatia under the directive that we finally see, into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Obligations to the application of this law are state administration bodies and other state bodies, local and regional (regional) self-government units, public rights bodies as defined in the law governing the area of public procurement and associations established if such associations are established for the specific purpose of meeting the needs of general interest and have no industrial and commercial importance. The law also regulates exceptions from its application, and I must point out this occasion that the community of the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities, although extremely satisfied with this law, has made one small remark that children's kindergartens, schools and dormitories should be fully bound by this law. But first it's reading, more room to talk about it. So kindergartens and school institutions, they are bonds but only for content related to administrative functions. What is good, it would say extremely well, as this law provides for counselling to include a roof organization of people with disabilities so that in consultations, education will be attended by those people who know the most about it. This law also prescribes the obligation to submit a report to the European Commission on the results of monitoring the compliance of web pages and software content, and that is, the obligation of the Republic of Croatia, such as the submission and implementation of the Convention, and I think we have made a major step forward with this law. This law provides easier access to public services and information, to all users, as I have told not only disabled persons. In one part of the reasoning of this law, I believe that the fall is being stolen, so people with special needs are being mentioned, so please fix it because it is not an official name in the Republic of Croatia, but people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. It is important that funds in the state budget are provided for the implementation of this law and it is also important to prescribe supervision of the implementation of the law which is in the power of the Commissioner for Information and it is also provided that one person with disabilities is also employed in the Commissioner's Office, which will also be relevant and I would say to the Commissioner in a way that I do not think that the Commissioner may or may not be trained enough at this point, but to bring closer to everything that is relevant to the users of this law in this matter. In any case, I support this proposal, and as I said, it's extremely important that here we are after a long series of years, I would finally say, with a whole range of accessibility. The government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted as I have also said a strategy and many other documents so that the UN Convention could be fully implemented. The area of accessibility has several segments, this segment has so far been not to say neglected but it has not been taken care of enough, so here is, one great support for you and the Government of the Republic of Croatia because you show really I will not say sensibility, but what it takes to ensure that persons with disabilities enjoy all their rights guaranteeing them the Convention. In your presentation, you said several key information, which is, many people forget that Croatia has more than 11% of people with disabilities. It's a large number, we mustn't ignore it and I have to make it possible for them to be accessible on the streets, in buildings and in terms of websites as I said they could enjoy all their rights. I believe that by the second reading there may be some proposals, if there are, I ask you to consider it well that possibly this law could be, although it is already of an exceptional quality, but in order for it to be even more quality and here, I welcome the adoption of a regulation that is first adopted in our country that implements the directive in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ Club supports the first reading by adopting this law and, as I said, I expect that by the second reading, we may still consider some opportunities related to schools and kindergartens and that this law would really be of quality and once again I would like to highlight and point out that this law is not only a respect for the rights of persons with disabilities but also one big step in one other area and that is employment because the employment of persons with disabilities in the Information Office will certainly be of great benefit not only to that person with disabilities but also to society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95548	Thank you, too. Mr Darko Paric will now speak before the SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95549	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State, fellow Members. I'll start easy. As we have laws that prescribe that roads, footsteps, approaches, passes, enters buildings, stairs must be adapted to people with disabilities, that's actually the essence of this law. That everything he finds by public administration, public authorities on the Internet, by law from the day of entry into force of this law, must be adapted to persons with disabilities. With what seems to me much better done with this law than with these construction laws, which this law provides for a body and a person who will oversee the implementation of the law and also prescribes infringements in the case of those who do not do so, unfortunately with all our buildings, nostalgics and everything we have in the state to this day is still not the case so that I think that in some ways they should look at the idea of how it is imagined, how there is, how to implement this law. Also respected secretary of state, since you're relatively rare in the House, I'm going to take the opportunity to say something broader on this subject. We live in a society of information today, live in an information society, live in a highly digitized society. And all companies or all entities, objects, as you will who deal with public services today and who are generally engaged in the services of which they live have long recognized the necessity and importance of the Internet and much of their business have been transferred to the Internet and on the Internet offer services to their users. Some of the biggest companies in the world have just become the largest on the Internet, Google, Alibaba, Amazon, these are companies that are very questionable where their buildings and everything else they've ever achieved, that's how they deal, all they have on the Internet. I deeply believe and I have been saying this for a long time in this House, among other things, that the Republic of Croatia and the state as public administration absolutely must recognise the importance of the Internet and must recognise that our citizens are largely on the Internet every day. And there's a banking on the Internet, there's shops, shops, marketing, whatever you want. Even schools are on the Internet, today there are a lot of courses and even colleges that can end on the Internet so that if we really want to be part of the advanced Western world, we have to do everything we can to make sure that all of our public services of those who can, of course, be on the Internet. We're like a country on a very good path to do something like that with it standing before us still enough of that road to get to the end. I also very often say that the digitisation of public administration is actually the real reform of public administration because digitalization regulates processes and works out of process to be perfectly simple, fast, flexible and there is no mistake in them because when you digitize something as a factor that can make a mistake and it's usually the man you kicked out of the process and there is no more error, there is no creativity, there are no things that can be byproducts of implementation of any process and in fact by my deep conviction, it's public administration reform. I'm even going to give you an example of a wonderful project that has been done over the years at the Ministry of Administration that they've done completely from the Ministry of Administration and people from some other ministries, meaning persons, public employees who are employed in that ministry. Matice, i.e. the book of the state of the born, married, dead, lists of voters and everything else, just 5, 6 to 7 years ago the situation was informically in the thick chaos, but it was practically worse because you had to go to the regular list from Zagreb to Split if you lived in Zagreb and you were born in Split and vice versa and everything was very complicated let's just say so. The Ministry of Management accessed the project where it first informationally arranged all things and then changed the processes completely and then put everything they do on the Internet in the E-Citizen system which the Republic of Croatia has as a central system for our public services. Today you have a situation actually that any document from the Ministry of Administration through the system of e-Citizens, any citizen of the Republic of Croatia, can get on the line, anywhere, on the globe of the Earth, where there is access to the Internet. Why is this public administration reform? Believe it or not, the jobs of this motherhood, and everything else until that time was done in Croatia, some 800 people, if I'm not mistaken. It's a huge army of people who issue birth certificates, to list voters and everything else. And de facto, these people were really needed, and they need to be handled in a good way. But a huge number of these people worked on counters, separating all these documents, what we've achieved with this, that all those who are today users of the e-Citizen system, if I'm not mistaken, there are about 600,000 of them today, right? So 600,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia today no longer need to go to the Ministry of Administration's counters, i.e., the state administration's offices, take out birth certificates, wedding papers and everything else. It is clear to you how large a mass of people who do not have the need for public service, to the physical place of public service, who will not waste their time, nor the time of a civil servant, nor the time of the state, to perform the same services that had previously been necessary, because these services are now provided by the house from the chair and it solves things properly. On the other hand, I'm deeply convinced that this huge mass of people who are in the state doing this work over time are becoming unnecessary because there are a lot less people who need their services, a lot of things happening, de facto in themselves and they have a lot of free time. If someone didn't get me wrong, I'm absolutely not a supporter of that idea, that people should be fired, I think it's a completely wrong thing, but there's a natural outflow, there's requalifications, there's other jobs, I think there's a million ways, that every person can be used in the right way to make their salary neat and fair. And why I quote this example, as a good example, because indeed with such a single project, i.e. through, which the Ministry of Administration made out of there in 2011, 2010 to this day. They have made evolution, a complete one evolution, the provision of public services to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, since then to this day. It's something that's completely different today from what became in 2010. But the foundation is completely different. And what's fantastic about everything I've already said, and I'm going to say it again, is done by the employees of the Ministry and by the employees of the e-Croatian administration, and the administration, I don't know what it's called, but it's a management that deals with the motherhood and states of citizens. Although it was very much at first, as far as I know, it was much more unwanted to go into such a process. However, when people after education and after seeing how things look, they realized what it all looked like, then they accepted both lunches and today the Republic of Croatia is in this respect one of the leading countries in Europe, in the region, I believe even wider. And they present their experiences today in other countries, through their associations, associations and everything else. And it's actually up to nothing else, to a huge public administration reform. Because, therefore, over the next few years, these jobs will require fewer people, people will be able to retrain themselves to other things, and those people who remain there will actually do the same job but at a much higher level. And not to say, that all these processes will be much cheaper for the state than they have ever been, from banal stuff to banal paper use. Out of tons and tons, thousands and thousands of paper, which was used for printing and everything and everything, it doesn't use today. We're even guarding forests, we're dealing with environmentalism, using digitalization in the state. And believe me, any process in the state you can make out of it, in this way, however you want. I have to say, I mean, I'm going to set an example of two, that no one is found, offended, if it didn't occur to me, but let's say the Ministry of the Interior, doing huge steps in these digital services, I don't know if you know it, but through the e-citizens, you can get a passport from the living room today, from the chair. You can even get a passport by mail to come to you. It's because you have to pay to come by mail, but my God, everything has expenses. But again, we're going back to the beginning of the story, if I sit in the living room and order a passport, based on my e-card, it means that I've cut myself some time, the state, the counter, that I've freed someone from additional and unnecessary work, which is really not necessary today. And it's called public administration reform. And believe me, when you set up business processes and state services in this way to function, you haven't just reformed public administration in the long term, and even in the short term, but it's a fantastic way of fighting corruption and any form of fraud and everything else. Because that's right, one of the bright examples is the system of enrolment in high school, so the Ministry of Science, once upon a time enrolled in colleges in my experience, which I know as decated and poor teachers, and the days of enrolment in colleges, they couldn't live with friends, acquaintances and all the parents who called, talked, convinced, prayed. However, this system of high school enrolment was actually made again by digitisation, in a way that everything was perfect, transparent, clear and unchangeable. You simply, i.e., people who are at that time, apply, to be students, high schools, based on their grades, based on their graduation and everything else, apply some system and in this system in real time watch, where they are, on the basis of, exclusively their grades. And that's something that really, after such transparency, there's no one who can help someone in high school anymore, because the system is transparent. And I've spoken before here, even once, when the example was, yes, indeed, if we want to do, in a short time, wonders in this country, in this country, we think we need.../The speaker doesn't understand. The digitalization of the whole country. What's fantastic about digitization is that it's not a political nature, it's not ideological nature, so there's not one reason that there's a lot of us in this House, left, right, over the center of the dispute over whether it's right or wrong, or how it was in '52, '73. Or '45. It's a thing that's totally apolitical and that only and only brings us well-being to all of us. And that's why I think this is a great law and a great road, the beginning of our journey into a better society. A society that's a lot more in the modern world than it was, and I think we should support it definitely. And as time goes, let me finish, what is also very commendable, as I have already said, is that there are breaking laws. Because if there's no violation of the law, then it's very difficult to get someone to comply with the same law. And I would take this opportunity even if I were to suggest, so consider, there's a State Information Infrastructure Act. It's a law, a fundamental law that defines the country's information, digital infrastructure. And there are no violations in that law. And based on my experience today and what I'm seeing, I think I should definitely get them into that law. And let me give you an example of why. The law says that all state bodies, absolutely anything that is public only has to be used for their services by the system of e-citizens. So people who are registered through e-Citizens must be able to enter any public service of any institution. And institutions can't do new usernames, passwords, usernames and stuff like that. We in the state have a beautiful, fantastic system called e-visitor. All praise to all those who have done so. But I'm going to say to the crash that it's right that this system wasn't at first if I'm not mistaken for part of the e-citizens, so you fixed it, right? And today, an e-visitor system can be accessed through e-citizens, but it's mostly entered through a special system of authorization that they've made. We spent some money on it for nothing and the State Information Infrastructure Act says e-Citizens must be used. I guess if we had broken provisions, that wouldn't have happened. I believe that these things will be rectified, so I suggest that you may consider the possible possible possible introduction of infringements into that law. And since the time is coming to an end, I will say that the SDP Club, including all its factions and groups, will support this law. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95550	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates. Mr. Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mrs. Irena Petrievcanin Vukasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95551	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Mr. Greek with his associates, I warmly welcome you. As my colleague Lukacic said earlier on behalf of the HDZ Club, I think this is a really good step forward. And what should be said for a short time, so far, Croatian national legislation had no obligation to make public administration websites available for people with disabilities. It depended on whether someone had heard about it, whether someone was empathy enough or not. So it was left to whoever was working that site, so the public administration body or the individual person or company that works for the public administration. This law prescribes it. And it is good that since 23 September 2019, the Croatian public administration will have to be online available for people with disabilities. And that is the key to this law, and it is not only about harmonising with the directives, and as it is said with the European acquis, but also about what we need very much and what we would probably have to do with time and time ourselves sooner or later. In any case, what I would like to say is that we can talk about websites in general in the Croatian public administration, since this is a topic that allows us to discuss this level, we can problem the information of the public administration, it's done enough and we heard from colleagues from Parić from previous discussions, I've been following this chronology somewhere since 2009, so let's say since 2008 how it goes with our public administration. And we know that in some parameters when we talk about e-Croatia as a document in 2020, because it adds up to all those previous strategies and to aligning with all that, with all that European acquis and everything that we had to comply with. And objectively speaking in some parameters if we're looking at that Desi, we're really standing. Of course, if we look at other segments, then we're even below average. We actually have a great deal of reflection between these parameters, so we should actually take a little account of it. And what's important is that we all know that Finland and Estonia are today leading to the digitization of public administration, we know that Denmark is right behind them and Spain. Therefore, according to this parameter, Croatia is quite poor and just before I said that some segments stand better. We are here in the 25th place among 28 countries and the same as last year. Now we can say that by this parameter we kind of stagnate. Otherwise, if we look at this Desi, which is one of the most important parameters for digitization, so both society and economy, then we'll say we're standing 22 places out of 28 countries. We're here in general looking better. And those segments that stand individually well and that's very important to point out is, for example, eHealth that's even in 10th place, and so we've moved quite high in relation to some, let's say the richer countries, or that have better GDP than Croatia. What is important is to point out that in fact Croatian citizens are very happy to use the Internet. And they like to use the Internet, they like to use online services and they like to use Croatian public administration services that are available online to them. And we would probably even rather use these services if these services were more complete, so we know that it is actually, that the e-Citizens started even in 2014 with work, that platform. 43 services were available in 2017. What the whole world almost praises us, and so did fellow Paric, is also referred to it, it is our e-Health and it is this central information health system on-line manual that currently has about 18 thousand users, according to my information. Maybe in the meantime more and more since 2011, we have these e-recepts that have actually shown a very good model that we can offer further. We offer it as something that's very good. What we might need to step up a little bit is that there are actually segments that we haven't even opened yet, and some other public administrations have already started in that direction, so here's the debate, and I'd like to call both Mr. Gršić and the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society to start thinking and implementing artificial intelligence for business entities as soon as possible. I don't know if that directive was signed. Yeah, it's signed. Okay. Until recently, it hasn't been, and then it makes it all so much easier for us. What's equally important is the establishment of a common platform where we haven't established it yet. We've got a pretty good network of the entire public administration system, even I'd say somewhere capillary. However, there are some other parts where jobs are duplicated, where to achieve something it takes three unnecessary steps that can be reduced to one. That's all the work that's going on, and I believe that even in the term of this government, a lot of things are actually going to speed up because as far as I can see, it's going that way. On the one hand, we may have a heavy word, pressure, but some obligations by the EC that we must fulfil as a member. On the other hand, we have our own proactiveity, and that's what I commend and desire to be even more proactive, to go even faster into implementation. It's not always just about money, sometimes it's about motivation. I know that in our public administration, counterpart Paric said just before, and I absolutely agree, there are truly educated individuals who even motivated, who will, can and know. Of course they're underpaid, but that's another problem. We need these people who are creative, who have high technological skills to give an opportunity, to use all possible means, so when we speak to an open source as a tool that is today universally accepted, etc., but that's another topic. So, let's get back to the suffix. We can do even better. What has been done so far, I commend, objectively saying it's quite good. Those segments that are not, we have time to fix them, and this Law when it enters into force on September 23, 2019 is one step that will really make it easier for people with disabilities to use on-line service of the Croatian public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95552	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mr. Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95553	Thank you. Dear colleague, e-Health is actually an amazing example of seeing something that's brilliant in the same resistor and something that's the opposite of what's genius. Our e-Health really is very high in Europe in digitization and especially e-recepts, many of the things we boast about are excellent. But the problem is that we have high digitization in central e-Health. And for us, money, resources and budgets are crumbling up in eHealth completely in hospitals because we have a bunch of hospitals that don't have any or very little connection to information as it should be. Unfortunately, we have KBCs that are still nowhere near informed today as they should, let's say, have the budgets of 700, 800, 600 or I don't know how many million kunas a year without any serious information. And then you get the situation that everything you save with e-recepts 3x more we lose in hospitals because we're not able to track the funds and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95554	Thank you very much. And in the end, please? Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95555	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Paric, I agree. Since 2011 when e-recepts have been introduced to date, this segment has indeed been a successful service. What you're saying, it's always the opposite. Whether it's a central public procurement system, informing all hospitals at Ministry level or whether it's a good solution or not, some will tell you it's ideal, some will tell you it's not good. It's a matter to discuss and discuss. My personal opinion in general, if we look comparatively at some other countries, the central public procurement system for public administration has largely proved to be a solution that is optimal and that saves money. Now whether the Ministry of Health and other ministries will have such visions, whether it will be shown through some debate, agree with it or otherwise, I really cannot assess it, but I can say based on the experience of other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95556	Thank you. Last individual debate, Mr. Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95557	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. First, we should commend this debate today because it is justified and constructive, but also since everyone praises the bill, then it is a commendation to you and to the entire Croatian government, to all those who participated in the drafting of this Bill proposal because you came with a good proposal to the Croatian Parliament. I would like to say that it is a good thing that we have this proposal today and that we are discussing it for a number of reasons. First and foremost because when this Law comes to life, we will have a lot more network sites and software content available to all our users, so above all, blind and impaired persons but also to older persons and all users who, in some difficult conditions of visibility, will get the opportunity to access these contents more. On the other hand, it is good that we are also introducing into our EU legislation a directive on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies and, of course, it is good that this law proposes the implementation of training and awareness-raising activities by actors in public administration bodies regarding the accessibility of websites on all users, especially what you define through the possibility of observation, interoperability, understanding and stability of websites. When we talk about training and raising awareness, that's the article 10th, then I'd put it together a little bit with this article 18 and what we've heard in the debate today, usually when something new is being introduced, or when it's already being heard today, when it goes into digitization of something, there's a resistance at first. So perhaps even here, if we stop this resistance as soon as possible, I see that the law provides for the law to enter into force on 23/09/2019, maybe this article 10 should be activated with this law and publication in the People's paper that this active training and awareness raising is coming into practice right away. It's just like this, my suggestion, right? I have already asked you about the pilot project we discussed and the certification of the sites, the law provides for this statement of accessibility, so which actually means public administration bodies tell them what is on their pages in accordance with the law and explain what is not and why they have failed to do so and the supervision of it is carried out by the Commissioner for Information. So I think that actually to those who make pages, and that should mean a lot more to the leaders of the local administration, in fact, what the people who use those pages are going to say, basically that certificate that we talked about in that replica at the beginning would mean even more to someone who makes pages to get it, to do sites that are useful, accessible from those who should use them in such a way than this fact itself that they are consistent with what the public administration says or what they write about their websites. But, of course, as I said before, it's good that we have the law, it's good to define it, but even in the course of the development and application of this law, we actually need to learn those who do these pages to apply standard technical solutions and that, in fact, in all other pages that are not prescribed in the law, that they are subject to this law, that they are actually applied in the same way that something I don't know, let's say software manufacturers are already going to do this, Windows has certain tools that people who access software can do in a good way if they're blind, impaired to use that software. So we should actually work together on the minds of all the participants as well as on the training of those who make websites not only for public administration but for all others, and that is why I also suggested that we maybe go as soon as possible to raise that awareness and get to a common goal as soon as possible, and that is that all citizens in the Republic of Croatia have as much access as possible. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95558	Thank you very much. You have two replicas. Mr. Paric's first line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95559	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you mentioned resistance, you mentioned resistance, passive, active resistance, it's the hardest thing, and most often you have resistance because of ignorance. I think today is a great moment in the Republic of Croatia in the public administration that great things can be done because there is no longer such ignorance in this aspect as it used to be. 5.6 years ago, if you'd gone to the MUP and told them that their passport or our passport would be available from the house via the Internet, you would have been declared to someone who understood absolutely nothing because it was impossible. Today we have it and it's what those people who work there did. So they came to a level of absolute understanding of the digitization of modern society and modern processes and that's our public administration. I think we passed that critical point when there was a huge resistance, today we have a lot of positive examples and positive services already implemented and should continue to work on it and I think it's a good time in the country for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95560	Time, thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95561	I agree with you, but now we're going a lot wider, so now we're going to all local communities, all of the municipalities, we have the commissioners here, we have actually one big spectrum, a broad spectrum of people, and in many areas there won't be absolutely any resistance, but as soon as they realize they're going to start and they're going to be interested and they're going to try to do it and they're going to try to do it as quickly as possible, which is better, but there's definitely going to be a environment that they won't understand at all, and that's why it's good that this training and training and the fight this resistance is going to go on as soon as possible, and I think the results will be even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95562	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Totgergeli, in your debate, you have put the focus on raising awareness about the importance and accessibility of these websites to persons with disabilities in users and those who should be involved in this. However, we need to take another dimension here and these are these new technologies that are coming, so that these new technologies will be de facto incorporated throughout these procedures and will therefore be much more accessible and persons with disabilities, but also to everyone else, so that it should also be expected, that it does not get me wrong, that this Law will at some point become unnecessary because these new technologies will offer quality access to all users through their own existence and solutions, regardless of their possibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95564	Time, thank you. Thank you, sir... I will be tolerated, but in the future raise the bat, can the hand, anything, just to see that you want to answer while this replica is still in progress. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95565	Thank you. Somewhere at -4 while he was talking, I still raised my finger. I absolutely agree with you, Mr. Tudjman. I think I even tried to explain it right through the technical solutions that companies dealing with serious software in the world will offer and already offer. That's why this approach is good at the beginning now, because we actually have environments and we have internal sites that haven't even thought about it, we need to encourage them to move in this direction, and through time, and all those who are dealing with the production of websites in the Republic, but also in the wider environment, will already install all those technical elements themselves to be very accessible to all persons, as well as to those who are blind and persons with weaker, impaired persons and others, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95566	Thank you very much. We don't have a closing word. So we're closing the debate, and we're going to vote when we get the conditions, and they're going to get there very quickly, today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95567	Proposal for a Act on the Accessibility of Networks and Program Solutions for Public Sector Movement Devices, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 409. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion first, the Proposal for a Law on the Accessibility of Networks and Software Solutions for Movement Devices of the public sector body and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when setting out the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the vote is 99 for, 2 abstentions and 1 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95568	- Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the European Commission on behalf of the European Union and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending and supplementing the multiannual financing agreement concluded on 9 December 2014, second reading, P.Z. No. 414 The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 414. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The rules of procedure of the Rules of Procedure are therefore laid down that the laws which are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are confirmed by international contracts and are adopted as a rule in a single reading. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate and the debate has been carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Does Mrs. Marija Vukkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, want to explain this proposal to us? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95569	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, you are presented with the Final Proposal for the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the multiannual financing agreement for the period 2007-2013, which was concluded on 9 December 2014, which refers to the fifth component of the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance and... or rural development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Legal basis for use... the program as well as the whole... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] all 5 components were created within the framework of the framework agreement published in 2007 in part of the international contracts of the National Journal of the European Union in issue 10, which established the basic conditions of co-operation between the former EC and the countries that were in the accession process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The following year was signed a sectoral agreement concerning only the 5th component, rural development, and a multi-annual financing agreement was signed in 2014 on 9 December which detailed the location for each year between 2007 and 2013. Article 36 of this Sectoral Agreement found that on 31 December 3rd of the year in which a certain budgetary commitment was created for the budget of the European Union, all those funds which have not been used, either through advances, either through inter-payment or which have not been automatically revoked and returned to the EU budget. For the period between 2007 and 2010, a little more than 64m euros and 64.2m euros of budgetary commitments were last established. However, the EC's advance amounted to 23.5m euros and 33.3m euros in inter-payments, totaling 56.8m euros, and the period expired, funds for 2010 amounting to 7.44m euros were recalled. This agreement amends the multiannual financial framework in the 2010 site-related addendum, which instead of originally listed 26.5m euros after this already automatically devoid of 7.44m euros of the approval in the agreement amounts to 18.5m euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95570	Thank you, too. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Domagoj Mikulić in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95571	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with an associate. As we have heard, we have before us the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the European Commission on behalf of the EU and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, amending and supplementing the multiannual financing agreement between the European Communities and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 9 December 2014. To return a little to the past in order to establish a legal framework for the use of access assistance under the IPA programme in August 2007 a framework agreement was concluded between the Commission of the European Communities and the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of establishing business rules and cooperation and implementing financial assistance to the European Community under pre-accession assistance instruments, i.e., IPA, in February 2008, the Commission of the European Communities adopted an IPARD programme for Croatia, and with the aim to implement IPARD through multiannual agreements, certain conditions for the allocation of funds, but also the rules and procedures and procedures relating to payments. The implementation of this programme took place according to a decentralised model, without prior control, which means that the funds were provided by the institutions for the management and implementation of the programme, the Ministry of Agriculture, that is, the paying agency in agriculture, while the Ministry of Finance was responsible for the activities of the financial management, i.e. the national fund of this ministry. In 2017, the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed amendments and amendments to the multiannual agreement governing the financial obligations of the EU, according to the Republic of Croatia, for the period 2007-2013. under the IPA component 5 programme relating to rural development. This law confirms the agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which amends and complements the multiannual agreement, and the amendments themselves relate to the maximum annual amount of the EU contribution, from the IPA Rural Development component, which aligns those amounts with the financial corrections implemented. In view of the fact that the Commission has implemented the budget commitments for the financial period since 2007-2010 during Croatia's payments and has recovered 7,44m euros from the amount allocated in the EU budget and to maintain the continuity of the multiannual agreement and to update it on the basis of the financial corrections made and since there are no financial consequences that may be affected by the Republic of Croatia or the European Commission, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, it is not possible to amend or supplement the text of the international contract, the HDZ Club will support this final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95572	Thank you, too. At the end of Mrs. Sonja Cikotic, in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95573	My colleagues and colleagues, the respected representatives of the ministry, today we have before us the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the European Commission on behalf of the EU and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, amending and supplementing the multiannual financing agreement for the period from 2007-2013, concluded on 9 December 2014. This Agreement, which is before us, concerns the amendment and addition of the multiannual agreement relating to the add-on, the maximum annual amount, the EU's contributions from the IPA Rural Development Component 2007-2013. Today, there was an automatic recall of funds, 7 million 440 thousand 283 euros and 55 cents. Automatic recall shall take place when the Republic of Croatia does not spend the funds within 3 years or 31 December of the third year from the date of the budgetary commitment. We today, the Republic of Croatia, pay the EU, membership between 3.5 billion and 4 billion euros, and also for that financial period we have a national contribution of 2 billion euros, and we have 10.7 billion euros available. In order for this situation to happen to us, it is important that today, on this example, we understand that automatic recall is possible, and that we understand, in fact, that the Republic of Croatia, 80% of the investment financed by public money, relates to EU funds. At IPA, when we had a deal, it was 126%, and let's say when we look back, we had a meeting of the Committee on Regional Development and the EU Funds, we looked back at an OP of 236m euros. When the projects were staged, or not finished, today we have only 196m euros in IPA. So we haven't been able to contract enough funds and realise in 2016, in order to reach 236 million euros in the first place, as far as we can. It is certified from the 1520m-euro transport programme, and 54m euros is an advance. And in this program, there are certain problems that could lead right to automatic recall. But the situation is not great even in a new period. Today, in 2014 and 2020, we have an operational project, which is intended for transport, which is available for a billion and 140 million euros, and we are late to implement it, which is how it says that the projects that we agreed on in 2007-2013 are prefabricated and financed from now in the new period, and the figures are devastating. Today we have 997m euros published in the 2014-20 programme, 913m euros were agreed, and when we say how much money was actually spent on funding claims, we drop to only 56m euros. Today, in September 2018, the situation is not a little good, and 67 million euros were paid to users, which means that the users did not even justify the advances they received. OP traffic means 2007-2013 is still open, so even though we had an obligation to close on 31.03.2018, we still haven't received confirmation from the European Commission what will happen to this closure of the programme. We today have open audit findings, a final report, we have not received confirmation from the European Commission and we also fear that there will be an automatic recall. Automatic recall in this case, this rural meaning of IPARD, rural development, we had 7 million 440 000 euros while for these other programmes, measures should certainly be taken that will not lead to this, should be more up-to-date approach to signing the contract, teams engaged in public procurement should be strengthened, processes should be accelerated through public administration reform or networking of public registers in a way that certain public registers are connected and waiting time should be reduced between certain procedures. All this should be done in order not to experience this denunciation, automatic recall of funds and for the IP of 2007-2013 and for the new financial period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95574	Thank you very much. Here you go, final word from Madam Secretary of State Maria Vuckovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95575	Here's thanks for the constructive debate, I'd just like to say that this recall today of 7 million and 440,000 euros as far as IPARD is concerned, is not the only one. In total, it was automatically called down to 61m euros, the original allocation was 183m euros and it was spent, agreed and spent because almost everything was spent from what was agreed on by one 55% of today's rural development programme managed by the Ministry of Agriculture, the current situation is that a billion and 91m euros were agreed on compared to 2 billion and 26m euros that were allocated from the EU, 518 has been spent on N+3, for 2018 we are at 140% of our liabilities, we are already at 54% for 2019 so that we do not believe that so far we are at risk of recalling the programme managed by the Ministry of Agriculture in this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95576	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95577	So I wanted to ask the State Secretary how much she is in the rural rural development measures of the measures that are directly paid out of the rural development programme, how much is the share of these measures, so measure 10, measure 11, measure 13, so here's the more information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95578	Would you like to answer that? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95579	Here, about 70 to 80 million euros a year, now I'm going to add, measure 18, she's gone, so here, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95580	Okay, thank you very much. Finalizing It's a debate. [[Upadica Vukkovic: Approximately half.]] Are we done or are we done? Is there anything else you need to say? No, we're done. So we close the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met and these conditions will be met at exactly 12 hours, you have an hour and 10 minutes. Those who had breakfast early can already go to lunch if they wanted to, and those others certainly have smart and good things to do up to 12 o'clock. Here you go. Goodbye to 12. It's 10.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95581	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the European Commission on behalf of the EU and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending and supplementing the multiannual financing agreement concluded on 9 December 2014, second reading, P.Z. No. 414. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law, please vote. I find that most of the votes 94 for, 9 abstentions and 1 against, the law is passed. The report on the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development for 2017 is the applicant of the National Council for Human Resources Development. On this item of the agenda, we will vote in accordance with article. 44. item 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion, a report on the work of the National Council for the Development of Human Resources for 2017, please vote. I find that most of the 91 votes for, 11 abstentions have reached a conclusion, as proposed by the parent constituency working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95587	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I request a 10-minute recess on behalf of the Club to consult on the vote on this report by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. I must tell you that this is the first time since the existence of the Croatian state that such an important report, where 38 billion kuna is spent annually, is not at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament and thanks to the will of the majority, although on the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, it was proposed that this be discussed at the plenary session. I cannot understand why the ruling majority made this decision. Is this because public consultation on pension reform is under way, so we would have a debate before the debate. Is this about preventing here from discussing pensioning and buying pensions because some people in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office have been arrested. I can't figure out why we don't react to these phenomena. I can't figure out why you don't want to, for example. In the debate, I'm correcting my colleague here Ivan Pernar, who insists that we have 95 thousand pensioners who receive less than 500 kuna, which is not true. We've got 4900, but 4900 or 95,000 is a big difference. It's 4900. We need to investigate who they are and help them. In the category of pensioners up to 2000 kuna with incomes up to 2000 kuna there are 479 thousand users. But inside, we have 155,000 non-accompanied data because they refer to pensions under international contracts. That's the part or the whole pension we pay off somewhere abroad. Whether in neighbouring countries, or in Europe. I don't understand why we're doing this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95588	Thank you. I'll have a break by 13.46 minutes. It's 13,36 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13.46 HOURS]] Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2017. The applicant is the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. This item of the agenda will be voted in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2017 is accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 86 for, 10 abstentions and 2 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent constituency body.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95593	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm not asking for a break, but you haven't read the second part of that conclusion, which was adopted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, about this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95594	I've only got this, I can check, now just a second.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95595	There is also a committee chairman who can confirm that there are two conclusions [[Intruder: Only one.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95596	Here's the record. Therefore, Conclusion: The report on the audit and effectiveness of capital investments carried out in primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95597	The second conclusion, unanimously adopted, is that the Ministry of Science and Education is in charge, that, in accordance with the audit findings, an action plan with the deadlines to be taken to implement the observations contained in the report in reality. The president can confirm my claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95598	Okay. Now, I have a record based on what we've been working on, if there are any problems, then please contact the board presidents on your board and let me know through some other act. Here are my colleagues, Bedekovic, president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95599	Thank you very much. They can explain, indeed, that the Committee has concluded that the Ministry of Science and Education is tasked with delivering to the Committee an action plan from which the activities and deadlines will be seen on, therefore, on everything that has been established by the audit report. So, the conclusion really exists, it exists at the level of the board. and the board, that's right, the board is in charge, the memo has already been sent to the ministry, the committee has tasked the ministry to draw up an action plan. [[The incursion president: But it is at the level of the board.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-28-0.u95600	Okay. It's not a theme then. It's a plenary session. It's a committee. Yeah, yeah. [[Intruder Bedeković: Yes, yes, yes.]] Well, here we go. Did we vote on this or not? We did, then we're moving on. The report on the effectiveness of the implementation of the Competitiveness and Cohesion Operational Programme 2014/20 is the applicant of the State Audit Office. This item of the agenda will be voted in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The report on the audit and effectiveness of the implementation of the operational programme, competitiveness and cohesion 2014/20 is hereby adopted. A year. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 for, 22 abstentions and 1 against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body.
