ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92369	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. HRT, the public service of citizens under special care by the Croatian Parliament as the most representative body of citizens was very often the subject behind this speaker. And very often, the SDSS's Club defended, protected, advocated the independence of editorial policy, the independence of the financial and business work of the HRT and the improvement of the conditions for HRT's work. However, what is particularly happening on HRT concerns us as advocates. First of all, we are concerned about the fact that on HRT there was an alleged denial that in Jastrebarska during the war period of '41-'45. There was no children's camp in which about 400 children were killed by inhumane conditions, the absence of medical care, the absence of a diet, and that those children whose parents were sent either to Jasenovac or to German camps were not treated as children who were killed by a criminal policy of the then Pavelic regime which included crimes against children and that HRT as a public service provided 40 seconds for that type of alleged denial was something which is in itself unacceptable and contrary to the values of this country and totally in accordance with Article 325. The criminal law that the authorities of the Republic should act on official duty when it comes to the denial of the crime of genocide, the Holocaust, when it comes to insulting the feelings of victims and victims of war crimes. At the same time, a decision on the extraordinary dismissal of one editor and one prominent journalist of the same television house is being made on HRT because he entered a verbal duel with the head of the Information Programme. What are the criteria under which the HRT as a public service acts in which a cynical appeal to the Istanbul Convention is not to be called upon to the Convention on the Prevention of Genocides, will not be called to the Convention on the War Law of the Geneva Convention and to protect the values of the Constitution of this country and to protect the laws of this country? So something that should have been solved inside the house by professional, collegiate conversation and sanctions that were appropriate to that kind of behavior that followed between the editor and the journalist ends with an extraordinary resignation, and something that is worth the attention of the state's attorney and something that results from violations of the law, the Constitution and international conventions. It goes like it didn't happen. So the verbal outburst towards the editor, the extraordinary dismissal, and the denial of the crime against the children, nothing, bit the wolf's asses. And it's a public service that we should defend. From now on, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS certainly won't. And it will be an opportunity to discuss this with a guess of a financial and business report that I hear is being discussed behind closed doors on the Media Committee. For what? What is problematic is that the Committee discusses public spending of public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92370	Before the next club, I would like to welcome students and students and their teachers from Vela Luka elementary school. Welcome to the Croatian Parliament! Now, I would like to pray on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, dear colleague Dragana Jeckov. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92371	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Assembly and the MPs. The President of the SDSS Professor Milorad Pupovac and Boris Milosevic, the president of the SDSS Club, were attacked Friday. My party colleagues, therefore our party colleagues, were targeted on Friday. Some will say, they were attacked in a symbolic sense, their physical integrity wasn't compromised, and that's somewhat true. But in that same symbolic sense, my party colleagues and representatives of the Serb national minority were cast out with a shameful act, a primitive, abject and anti-civilization, a particularly cowardly act of throwing food at people, unfortunately only a continuation of the campaign that takes the elements of hysteria towards members of the Serbian national minority and towards the SDSS, or its president. After the media published the news, countless people called me, voiced their concerns, expressed their anxiety and fear. Yes, they also expressed fear because they so publicly and unscrupulously attacked minority representatives. And when that is the case, then the members of the national minorities that they represent clearly what they can expect, it doesn't have to be very political. The messages are clear and unequivocal. I convinced them it was an individual case, that it was an isolated case, and that they shouldn't be afraid. Today after a few days, I'm not sure I convinced them, and I'm not sure I should believe that myself. Especially should we be concerned about the fact that no one, but nobody saw the attacker or was willing to testify about him. In fact, no one was ready to talk to these people and tell them if they needed help. Wasn't anyone willing to make a statement to the official institutions about this unkind event? Now that's the deepest problem in symbolic or in any other you want meaning. The absence of feeling that it is necessary to help people in need, to turn their heads, and to pretend that nothing has happened, so it is almost as much as being involved. The silence of society on violence, in this same society, is a bad sign, which shows the absence of original, human understanding, humanity and solidarity but possible fear of individuals and mistrust in the institutions of the system. Even more tragic are the attempts of some to show this event funny, angry, and to make fun of those who have suffered in a symbolic sense. The poor are their attempts to further humiliate those who are other nationalities, a different worldview, and yet more should be ridiculed because they believe that the representatives of the SDSS and the Serb national minority are likely to deserve such treatment in society. Well, that's not normal. And let's not get used to it and consider it normal for people to spit on the street, throw food at them just because they're members of another national minority or because they think otherwise. In fact, not other national minorities, but any minority in our society. Also, I want to thank all parties, MPs, individuals who have condemned such a shameful act. I thank all those who have fenced themselves from this act. Now I should probably invite the institutions from this place to do their job, to find the perpetrator, to condemn and whatnot, but I won't. I won't because I'm more and more trusting in that old people's place, who's in the church, who's not praying to God. Well, that's how I feel about institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92372	Here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92373	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS representative club wants to warn of a form of inequality, a form of neglect and neglect of the youngest in our society, above all, children of school age. The inequality is present in different aspects. Thus, on a social basis, economic basis, on an age basis and on a regional basis, according to where who lives. I'm going to address this time on behalf of the SDSS Club to where anyone lives. If you are a parent, you have a child for elementary school and you live in Vojnić, where the original income per capita is 676 kn or in Krnjak 828 kn or in Dvor 742 kn or in Plaška 794 kn or in Kukuruzari 482 kn, then without the help of the state or county, you cannot provide your child with basic needs such as transportation to school. This is of course a problem not only in these municipalities, the problem is in a number of other municipalities where counties for different reasons or municipalities either do not or cannot do it because they have very low incomes. I will give an example of which we are particularly concerned, which is that in the municipality of Vojnic and in the municipality of Krnjak, which is the municipality, whether they have no funds or because they haven't found common language with the county, children who go several kilometers to schools which are risky, in which children's safety is seriously threatened by winter conditions, do not provide them with what should be provided. I don't understand either the Ministry of Education who doesn't follow what's actually on the ground, who doesn't do what's supposed to do and that's that if the county doesn't provide what's supposed to provide or the municipality, then it reacts in that case. It is unacceptable that 12 children in this case, if it is important to anyone at all, do not matter to me but it is about children, children of Croatian nationality. They take the main road from Karlovac to Plitvice, once the main road, once the main road from the north to the south of Croatia, without any footstep, in winter with snow on the side, so they walk on the stake, mostly in the rain, when they reach school and when they return from school. And those kids are nobody's concern except the community. And us. And be patient every day that these kids, along with their parents, don't let anything happen. Why? Well, who cares? Today the Serbs and the emigrated Croats are in anyway. There are few voters there anyway, so let's worry about those who, with a little votes, go into the House and we're big ones, we'll worry about where there's a big pile, where there's big money. The surplus per capita has 31 000 kn of original income. The source has 15 500 of them are realistically expected to share as units of local self-government care about primary and secondary education and to contribute to how things are defined in the state pedagogical standard of primary education system. Article 36, in order to increase the safety of students on the circumstances of special traffic conditions, in settlements without public transport with unaccompanied passengers, the transport of pupils may be ensured regardless of distance. Yeah, well, you'd have to make sure. That state as it was and provided children with transportation, I walked 7 km for a year, but after a year, the state found ways to secure transportation for the students, everyone who went... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92374	Please, let's stay in five minutes. We're going to the 5th Club, this is SDSS Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92376	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We are witnessing the fact that unfortunately in Croatia the climate is constantly being created and maintained in which it is actually desirable for Serbs to insult, threaten, verbal or symbolic, realistic or real because it is as a kind of patriotic act, something that is desirable, something that is encouraged, something that may be unpunished. A student of the 1st class of Serbian Orthodox High School was attacked 10 days ago here in Zagreb. He was attacked on a bus on a line that's been driving from school to town. The target is food and humiliated by a group of teenagers only slightly older than themselves who know who they shot, who know which school the student who was attacked goes to. You can say, what's more than a teenage, age-old muscle show like it's got everywhere and all the time? However, students from that high school experience it all the time, incidents happen all the time, threats, provocations, sexism towards students, there were also physical attacks, stones. Fellow representatives, the school was guarded by the police, right here in Zagreb. So not far away. Here in Zagreb, police were guarding schools and schoolboys. It's as if they're not suffering enough because of their social status, but they're being further stigmatized. Students and students of that school and teachers have developed a high tolerance threshold for such things not to even report it anymore. They put their heads down and say let it go, it's easier if you let go. It's their way of defense. The students of that school get on the bus by going to school thinking about what they will experience every morning, whether they will be attacked or provoked today. These are children who come from all over Croatia, they are children who come mainly from poor areas, they are children who come mainly from the environments that are poor, from a family that is poor and who have income below the average standard of living. These are children who come to visit the Croatian Assembly. In the spring of this year, the graduates of the school visited the Croatian Parliament, were there at the gallery, together we welcomed the applause. These children were asked where they are seen in the future, they said in Croatia. We want to go to college in Croatia, we want to live here, we want to work here, we want to study here. Despite what is happening to them, despite their young shoulders, it is rare to hear from young people today that they do not think about studying or living outside. I don't blame the kids of a bully at all. I blame the causes in society that led to the behavior of motivated hate. I blame the institutions for not working properly to prevent such violence and behavior. I blame the climate in society. I blame the climate that relativates violence and such behavior. The incident report was sent according to the protocol on handling such matters, the director has not been contacted so far. I'm asking a question for competent institutions what are you going to do? And what are we going to do as agents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92377	Good morning. We're starting to apply for a position on behalf of the MPs' club and independent lists. She is the first representative of the SDSS colleague Dragana Jeckov, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92378	I would like to thank the honourable Vice-President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Assembly and MPs. Today, in my free speech, I will talk about a phenomenon that surrounds us and warns us, a phenomenon that cannot be hidden, a phenomenon from which some turn their head, and others bend their backs. I'll talk about poverty. It is one of the leading international problems that is affecting our country more and more and more. Poverty is a rather vague and more significant concept, which is witnessed by very different estimates of the number of poor in a society, as well as by different methods of measuring it. Some take it very closely, such as the economic situation or the problem of ensuring a certain level of income, while others define it in a very different and broad way, including psychological factors such as hopelessness or low aspiration. However we define it or interpret it, the problem of poverty and social exclusion in Croatia becomes one of the leading national problems that takes on growing proportions. This is primarily evident in the trend in the growth of the share of poor and socially isolated and disfellowshipped citizens. So on Monday, the State Statistics Institute presented a devastating report that every fifth man in the Republic of Croatia is at risk of poverty, so 824 900 people are poor. The poverty rate in the past 8 years has ranged from 19.4 to 20.6 and although it is therefore an increase, it is now 26.4%. According to the so-called the poverty map, i.e. the spatial distribution of poverty and social exclusion in Croatia, the poverty rate in the continental region is 19.4% and in the Adriatic 12.6%. These poverty maps are based on a detailed Geo reference database with information on the spatial distribution of poverty and should, in some ways, serve in policy-making to reduce regional differences and eradicate poverty and social exclusion in the area of the Republic of Croatia. So according to this devastating data that warns us where we are, and according to them, we can conclude that we are among the worst, that is, comparing us with Romania and Bulgaria. Poverty is, of course, also linked to certain demographic and social characteristics, so I will, of course, talk about members of national minorities who are particularly represented as poor. Especially for me is the worrying fact that there is a significant risk of poverty when it comes to national minorities, i.e. Roma and Serbs. Their position further worsens the fact that the moss is an older population that is more common in rural areas, so they are further away from social and social support networks. Although, in general, rare studies affecting the economic or social exclusion of ethnic minorities appear to be responsible for the lack of information mentioned, it is therefore also responsible for official statistics which do not publish indicators of poverty and economic inequality according to ethicality. The share of Serbs living in low-income households is about two and a half times the share of the majority, while the share of other national minorities in low-income households is about 50 times the share of the majority. The age, type of household, education, number of household employees and regionality explain about two-thirds of the total difference in the number of low incomes between the majority people and the Serb national minority and three-quarters of the difference between the majority people and other minorities. It should be pointed out that employment, i.e. unemployment, is one of the most important causes in explaining differences in the number of low-income households among ethnic groups, and it is therefore important to analyse the position of members of ethnic groups on the labour market. Why is there a greater share of both sexes who do not have paid employment among Serbs? Since slightly less than half of Serbs live in low-income households, we can therefore assume that the main reason for this is the difficult access to paid employment, so we have data from members of the Serb national minority who are about to perform paid work the most registered and is about 66%. Like I said at the beginning Thank you. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92379	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92380	Now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92381	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Forests are one of the largest national treasures owned by the Republic of Croatia. The second processing industry is the second or third to contribute to the total GDP and to the exports that the Republic of Croatia has. In the Republic of Croatia there are 2 million and 600,000 hectares of land under the woods. Of which, just over 2 million is state property, and about 600,000 is private property. The total state of Croatian forests could be talked about. It could be talked about the overall state of the Croatian forests and wood processing industries which have been recovering in the past few years and recorded growth unlike agriculture, which unfortunately cannot move and begin to record growth. But we didn't answer from the SDSS Club because of the general issue, even though it deserves special attention. We've come forward about something that we've been having correspondence with the Ministry of the Interior and the local self-government unit, in which we've heard from locals for several years now, that there's been a widespread and unsanctioned robbery of the forest. I say widespread and completely uncontrollable robbery of the woods. A few days ago, we were able to read in one medium at last a comprehensive and respectable text that brings us data, in which in Croatia, about 300,000 cubic logs of logs or wood mass, of 600-800 thousand are illegally cut annually. It is a significant wealth, which in different ways, those who illegally cut other people's forests, those who smuggle these forests and damage equally private owners and damage the state budget and destroy national wealth. I'm deliberately saying this, they're damaging other people's property, they're damaging the state budget and they're destroying the national wealth, because the forests are national wealth, regardless of whether they belonged to a more expensive or a private. And you know what we in that communication got, in response, expected. It's expected according to what we knew from humans, which is that local police, close their eyes when trucks pass through exporting logs of illegally cut forests. When there's something on Brac, then the rest of us will talk while Bauk and counterpart Bacic discuss things that are of general national interest. In any case, this is an extremely worrying phenomenon, an extremely worrying phenomenon, because it destroys the ecological system, uncontrollable in this country, extremely worrying that raw materials, resources, which these undeveloped areas, can be used to create such conditions for their lives, to develop small sawmills, to have sustainability and survival, that people can be employed in these areas, that municipalities and cities and counties in that area and states can income from the activity of this species. We're blind to it. Why? Well, they're Serbian woods anyway. Who cares about that? Let them cut. They're not Serbian, like the '90s. and '91. They were not communist Yugoslavs when companies were robbed and destroyed but were Croatian. So are these forests, ours and will be ours while we take care of them and while we're here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92382	Thank you. We are now going to the fifth debate, the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92384	President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Since it's the day after tomorrow, I would take advantage of this statement on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club that no matter what jobs they're working on, I would like to congratulate the day of the police. I also use the opportunity to remind everyone of the huge contribution of the Croatian police to the defence and then the release of our country. After a major Serbian aggression in 1991, it was the police who were the first to resist. That's when we called them the strong forces of the MUP and the National Guard choir. During the Homeland War, defending our country on the most severe battlefields killed 755 police officers, more than 3600 were wounded, and 31 were still missing. Since I'm coming from Varazdin, I can't help but point out the great contribution of the Varazdin and Međimurje police officers to the defense of the city of Hero Vukovar. Only in the shift sent to Vukovar on September 11th 1991, 185 of them died 21, 66 were wounded, five were still wanted and missing, and 119 were passed by torture of concentration camps, Stajicvo, Srijemska Mitrovica, Novi Sad and Belgrade. Special police units have been established within the MUP as part of police administrations, i.e. Officers with more homework than police and war. I think it is right here in the Croatian Parliament that I need all of them to remember, so I'm going to name their popular middle names from which they come. Anti-terrorist unit Lučko Zagreb, special police airline Lučko Zagreb, anti-terrorist unit Sljeme, Roda Varazdin, Alpha Zagreb, Sharks Rijeka, Bak Pula, Ban Koprivnica, Barun Zabok, Bat Split, Delta Županja, Grof Dubrovnik, Grom Karlovac, Jastrevi Sibenik, Krpelj Vinkovci, Omega Bjelovar, Orao Osijek, Osa Sisak, Pospoci Zadar,... Kutina, Šima's angels of Hell Slavonski Brod, Zebra Nova Gradiška, Tigrovi Gospić, Trenk Požega, Villa Velebita Lovovac and the special police of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the Homeland War, the biggest crisis he faced, not only our country, but Europe as a whole, is a migrant crisis. If only in 2015, about 670 0000 migrants passed through Croatia. If we compare that to the number of our citizens, the ratio is about 6:1. if everyone else is here, the question is, how would our society function today? There must be cases among migrants that, when you hear them, your heart literally hurts. That it is necessary to help if it is possible for these people, but primarily to take care of the safety of our citizens. There's our police, whatever you say, who did a great job, and that's why I'm giving them a big thank you. The issue of security is the top issue not only in Croatia, but in many EU countries. I therefore welcome Minister Bozinovic's efforts to invest in police accommodations, police equipment, efforts to preserve and strengthen the dignity of police profession with a clear vision of the development of modern and modern police. So a year ago, clothes and shoes were purchased for police officers worth 34 million kuna. 3,000 police protective vests worth 54 million kuna. Modernised radio communication 37 million kunas, investments in numerous buildings and energy efficiency have been made. Located accommodation for numerous police officers on the coast. All these investments are aimed at making it possible for our citizens to be as secure as possible, although I stress that Croatia is a safe country in terms of security. Finally again, I congratulate the Croatian police on their day wherever they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92385	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which respected representatives Bozo Ljubic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92386	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, I address you as the representative of this House elected by the BIH. Elections in the context, therefore elections in the BIH held on 7 October. The elections are of fate importance to the Croatian people, and therefore also to the Republic of Croatia. The elections are therefore held, in the atmosphere of uncertainty because there is no valid Electoral Law that allows the selection of legitimate national representatives in the Constitution institutions to do so, and these are the Houses of the People and the Bureau of the BIH. Unfortunately, so it's the right... legitimate representatives have been denied only by Croatians in BiH by this contested electoral law, and it has already been said several times that Croats could not choose their legitimate representatives in these parliaments in a constitutional manner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, the consequences resulting from the unadopted electoral law will be reflected in terms of institutional and constitutional crises because after the elections, it is not known how or whether it will be possible to form authorities in the Federation of BiH and at the level of the BiH state. On the other hand, the fact that there is a dirty campaign on the scene with elements of chauvinist hatred for the entire peoples. Some candidates, even for the presidency, threaten to abolish the constitutionality and equality of the people after these elections, if they win. Furthermore, certain large-boscist unitarian circles in BiH with the aim of the elections... for the third time in the post of Croatian member of the BiH presidency, they are campaigning against the Croatian National Assembly, against the president of the Croatian National Assembly, members of the presidency and candidates in these elections, Dr. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dragan Covic in a way that if he is elected, it is the end of BiH, without any arguments, and in fact the truth is quite the opposite, Croatian political representatives in BiH headed by Dr. Covic was actually handed over... BiH's EU bid, of course, needs to be said honestly with the help of Croatian euros, including Croatia. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, there is a diplomatic campaign against the Republic of Croatia against its officials and institutions and insinuating identity theft, vote theft, etc. Any support from BiH that includes respect for the BiH Constitutional Court decision and the right to elect legitimate representatives of all three peoples and institutions of BiH is difused as an attack or interference within... BiH can hear this these days after a very constructive and balanced speech by Croatian President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic in the United Nations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore important for the Croatian institution and the public to be aware of the process of the challenge that this election process brings to BiH, a country that Croatia has defined in its external political strategy as a programme state. The more the Croats in BiH, who are actually one of three constituent and constitutional, and thus state-owned people by denying and disabling the right to elect legitimate people's representatives, even by the Constitution's institutions designed for national representation in this way, are trying to take away the right to BiH, a country that is our country and whose roots in BiH are the deepest. Croatians from BiH look at their hopes and hopes towards Zagreb, especially today when Croatia is a member of the EU and NATO, the world's most important... We are happy when Croatia is going well and unhappy when faced with difficulties, whether economically or politically, is aware that this draws the focus and energy of Croatian institutions from strategic, state and national interests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since nothing can change in the legislative sphere until the elections in BiH, I can only call on every Croat in BiH and Croatia with the right to vote to be aware of the importance of their vote, to defend today's Croatian right to BiH, the right that our ancestors have defended us in much more difficult conditions than these today. that we bear witness to the people's unity, that we do not fall for the difamation and manipulation directed against Croatian parties and individuals with the aim of dissuading us from choice or division. We have the right to choose our own representatives, and we will change them ourselves if they are not at national level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92387	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92388	The second is a respected colleague Branko Bacic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92389	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. On Sunday, 7 October, general elections were held in BiH. Every election is important, often we politicians claim that the next elections are the most important, almost historic ones. But given a number of problems facing BiH and especially the Croatian people in BiH, the elections really depend on strategic importance. The implementation of the constitutional constitutional constitution and equality of the Croatian people is not only a provision of the BiH Constitution, but a more vital interest of the Croatian people in BiH, the Croatian people as a whole, as well as of the Republic of Croatia. Despite such constitutional standards, Sunday general elections are held in the atmosphere... uncertainty because no electoral law has been passed that would allow the Croatian people to choose legitimate national representatives in the BiH presidency and the people's home. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And unfortunately, this is not the first time, the majority and Bosniak people in BiH have chosen a member of the presidency on several occasions. Manipulations were also common with the home of the people of the Federation of BiH, and consequently the home of the people of BiH. In this way, it is taken away from the Croatian people in BiH, which is defined by the Constitution as one of the three constituent and constitutional peoples, and thus the governmental peoples the right to political decision-making in their own country, the country which is their home country and whose roots in BiH are the deepest. A political farce, if I didn't say perversion, would be the result of Sunday general elections in BiH that would impose on the Croatian people his political representatives elected against his will, and the will of the majority Bosniak people. As a result of such an election process, the opposite decision of the BiH constitutional court would be reflected in the post-election constitutional crisis, in the functioning of the Federation of BiH and the state of BiH. We therefore call on all responsible representatives of political life in BiH to enable all peoples in BiH and, above all, on the Croatian people, the choice of legitimate representatives based on the votes of Croatian voters. In this sense, it is very important and encouraging that a recent message from the head of the Islamic community in BiH, Reisul-Ulem Hussein Kavazovic, that members of one nation should not elect representatives to another people. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs have been in BiH several times lately. Our fellow countrymen look at their views, their expectations and hopes towards Zagreb are aware of the international influence that brings the political capital of the EU and NATO member states. I am therefore convinced that we are here in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of our worldly and political differences, unique in support of our countrymen gathered in the Croatian National Assembly in their efforts to preserve the political integrity of the Croats in BiH. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Parliament's agenda included a proposal for a declaration on the position of Croats in BiH and the European path of BiH. By accepting the Croatian Parliament Declaration, the position of the Republic of Croatia will show that the strategic national interests of the Croatian people in BiH can most effectively be realised within the framework of the whole and sovereign BiH with a clear goal of its entry into full EU and NATO membership. In such positions, the HDZ Representatives Club invites every Croat, regardless of his residence and with the right to vote in BiH to exercise his right to go to Sunday's elections to elect his legitimate representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92390	We're going to another club, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92391	... On September 28th, I said that the October 7th elections were fateful for the Croats in BIH, but also important for the Republic of Croatia. [[Specially enabled.]] In the same address, I drew up the hope that the Croats in the elections would be able to elect their legitimate representatives in the presidency and the homes of the people, but I also voiced concern that this might not happen because the electoral law allowing this to be amended in accordance with the December 2016 Constitutional Court decision of BiH. Unfortunately, what happened? For the third time, the Bosniak majority in the Federation elected Zeljko Komsic as the Croatian article of the BiH presidency, regardless of the fact that the candidate of the Croatian National Assembly Dragan Covic received more than 80% of the Croatian votes, but since the Constitutional Court confirmed that the constitutional court is at the head of constitutionality a top principle of the Constitution, it implies the right of every nation to choose its legitimate representatives at its administrative political levels, so that this choice is neither legitimate nor constitutional. It is obvious that Bosniaks have defined themselves or better to say that they vote for both Bosniak and Croatian members of the presidency, and that this is not needed by any major analysts. In the majority of Široki Brijeg, Dragan Covic received 10500 votes, i.e. 85% of the vote, while Zeljko Komsic received 26 votes, and 0.5%, respectively. In the majority Bosniak Muslim... Željko Komsic received 4800 votes, or 39% of the votes, although only 0.04% of Croatians live there or by the number and letter of 24 persons of Croatian nationality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So one more subtle analysis of these elections shows that Zeljko Komsic received the most votes in the forts of the Bosniak majority SDA party. My colleagues and colleagues, these days after the election, Zeljko Komsic's third election in the BiH presidency, are talking about the Komsic phenomenon, but we must not treat this as a personal issue, it is primarily a matter of the Constitution, character and sustainability of BiH itself. Komsic only took advantage of what the political constitution in BiH and the formal legal regulation allowed him to do, and everything else was done in the context of a well-designed and implemented Bosniak project or a more accurate SDA project. It could have been just as much as Edine... who pleaded as a Croat from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and who has been sitting in the Croatian club at the home of the people of the Federation of BiH for four years. It could also have been some Marko Markovic, loyal to Bosniak politics, if it were a project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although some would like to show this choice as a choice out of spite, if we consider Bosniak... We can only characterise this as an act of enmity towards Croats and political violence, i.e. an attempt to convert the Federation of BiH, which is based in Washington as a Croatian Bosniak entity into an entity with Bosniak domination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's just remember the government without Croatian electoral legitimacy,... In 2001, platforms in 2010, blocking the Constitutional Court's decision, or amending the electoral law, all shows that this has been the plan since the beginning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the Constitutional Court has put out of force certain articles of the electoral law relating to the home of the people of the Federation, it is doubtful that this will be possible at all to form power in the Federation of BiH at the state level in a legal way. This actually leads to one risk of further political destabilisation of BiH, which certainly the Republic of Croatia needs to take care of. Difamation campaign against the Republic of Croatia, charges of aggression, joint criminal enterprise, opposition to the construction of the Peljev Bridge, etc. Involvement in the election process, all of this aimed to discourage Croatia from practicing its constitutional and international obligations to BiH and to the Croats in BiH. However, it should be said clearly, this should be the end, Croatia should give a strong response, Croatia as a signator of Washington which created the Federation and the Dayton to which BiH was created have its obligations in implementing these agreements by the more they are violated at the expense of Croats. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia has the right and obligation to insist on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision and generally respect for the fundamental principles of Dayton, the principles of constitutionality and equality of the people. Croatia, as a member of the EU and NATO, also has its obligations stemming from this membership, which is the EU's enlargement to Eastern Europe and the concern of stability and security at its borders that can be threatened by such procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92392	Thank you. Let's go to the last club, it's the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92394	Thank you, Your Honor. So here in the last half hour we have heard statements on behalf of the clubs that we have discussed here in the Croatian Parliament over the past month and through the discussions we have shown how much and how in all these cases, problems work and solves this government. Last Thursday, we discussed the Minister of Health's trust where we clearly pointed out how missed the the thesis that the Minister of Health was trying to get rid of, and in this debate, we showed that in 2013, the SDP government, with 5 billion kuna, remedied health care, health care system, and in a very smart, insightful way, resolved health care in such a way that it owed Croatia an additional 5 billion kuna and that for a year and a half after that, after the rehabilitated health system had gone into a dubiosis for an additional 7 billion kuna. It was about the problem written down, about the problem blocked, and it would remind all of those that in June, the Parliament passed 3 laws, the Law on the forgiveness of debts to natural persons, the Law on consumer bankruptcy and the Law on the implementation of the charge over money through which the implementation and realization of the past few months has reduced the number of 50,000 completed by our citizens and decreased the debt by more than 24 billion kuna. Comrade Maras resents HDZ for having a stable majority here in the Parliament. Regardless of whether the number of representatives of the ruling majority is deepening or not. It's not a colleague of Maras, HDZ is not a colleague of Maras's fault that your club is falling apart, which from day to day the parliamentary representatives are leaving and joining other clubs, it's your problem, it's not a HDZ problem. We hear that today one of your colleagues left your club, therefore, I am asking you to let me go, you have discussed before, no one has interrupted you, therefore the problem of the functioning of the SDP is the problem of the SDP and not the problem of the HDZ. So figure it out, settles in its own club, the HDZ club absolutely gives full support to the government, as you can see, from week to week, that stable majority is confirmed at each vote. I'd also like to look back on my colleague Grumoja's statement. In fact, it is unacceptable and unacceptable to use this pay phone over the back of a man who has problems with his employer and on whom the problem was manifested by DORH and USKOK, in which he rejected that criminal application, trying to gain cheap political points and call his political opponents, belittle and insult them. Trying here in this assembly, to portray this speaker as a righteous among the nations, all over the back of a Croatian citizen who is trying to exercise his rights which he considers to have been injured, is unacceptable. It would be a good idea for a colleague of the Grmoya to stick to those of the Gospel who says, “If you help, let your right hand not know what your left hand is doing”, and not for this pay phone to be used by HDZ, HDZ leaders, heads of the Government and the Parliament so harshly and lowly, it does not serve to anyone and then neither to the colleagues of the Grumoji. I want my colleague, Mr. Sabelak, to help Sabelak, as much as he wants to, to succeed, to have Mr. Sabelak exercise his rights, but this way, as this speaker was used to offend, humiliate his political rivals and opponents, it really is not worthy of a parliamentary representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92395	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92396	Thank you very much. Article 238 was injured, counterpart Bacic said something that I did not say at all, I was talking exclusively about him receiving the support of Mayor Bandic, who around the trade and buying with money from Zagreb taxpayers, deepening the HDZ majority. While you're preaching from this pay phone, I suggest that you ask on Sunday for a confession to resolve your sins because of what Mayor Bandic holds most of you because he won't wash you away from stealing votes and thus buying... Thank you very much. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92397	You've been warned because you've abused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, please write that down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92398	I would also like to thank the final statement of views on behalf of the Independent Lists' Club, colleague Josip Boric, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92399	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's when they're free subjects, we see that many people don't want to represent themselves here as big moral verticals even though they were ministers in some governments and they were probably trying to make their own decisions, and they were making decisions that ended up in affairs themselves, but of course, very quickly forgot, they had the opportunity twice to fix the situation they thought was bad, that they would be better, when they came, that they would do it and what they were doing? First of all, they would probably abuse the repressive apparatus, which they have objections to today, and the judiciary, to hit their political opponents, and when they saw that there was nothing they could do about it, that the factory affairs were not going through, that there was nothing in that space, again, in the same model, in the same way, they were now trying to defile many people, the parties, were not able to find room for some political platform. Who these people, these ministers, you saw today, they were ministers, they made decisions, they didn't mind raising VAT from 23% to 25%, they were very happy to pick it up, they were very happy to talk about it and defend it here in the Parliament, they raised the prices of all the energys by 20, 30, 50%, we remember, but none of it. Before the bankruptcy settlement, a beautiful story, a crime they produced in the first step while decisions were made in some small rooms at the table. It was only later that they fixed these things, destroyed over 100,000 jobs, closed 70,000 crafts, and constantly interpreted that it couldn't be any worse than it was until 2011, and that it couldn't possibly be worse than some previous governments. But what were they doing again? They've been pushing the deficits to nearly 20 billion kuna in the budget, down 11 quarters of GDP, put us in debt for 80 billion kuna, increased public debt from 65 to 90%, and today they come here neatly and they're handing out flights. They didn't have an affair? The affair of moments, the affair of getting police vehicles, the affairs of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Gunja affair, and we see articles in the paper, some are called for articles. I read the article, too. Renewal of Gunja, premises, 1700 euros square. Can we call that repressive machine that's calling today to investigate that? Here we invite them, to see this whole story that's happening there. They say we also solved the shipbuilding, how many statements we have in 2014. In 2015, the questions we've solved, the only question we've ever done, i.e. The only problem we have solved is Croatia's shipbuilding, take some records from previous years, how did we solve it? Debts recorded to the government from 2011, transferred everything to public debt, restructured shipbuilding, and today left it to the new government to solve it, the facts are gentlemen. And today we have a choice that we have to defend ourselves here again or deny all of their insinuations from people who ended up in affairs themselves. Let's remember Mr. Minister who wrote to himself practically, answered the contest for the workplace in Opatija, I don't know about the competition in Osijek in some daily list and nothing, only Milanović replaced him for that and today he's giving us lessons here on morale. It's up to us here to choose whether we're going to roll in the mud together with them in this way with an opposition that tries again, I say, on the same model as before defile all the most HDZ or do we do our job? I think we decided long ago on this second part that we would do our job, that we would set the citizens a result after the end of this mandate, let them have fun with their affairs and activities, but we will always clearly respond to them if necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92400	Now we're done taking a stand on behalf of the MPs' club so we can move to the first point of today's debate, the first item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92401	And the last Club of Representatives is that HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Kovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92402	... not because of NATO alliance means but because of ourselves, we wanted it and when we went into the fight for freedom, for democracy, for free Croatia 30 years ago we wanted Croatia as part of the political West. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And if we look at the situation in which we are in today, we have succeeded, we are our own country that was self-absorbed and that was the first super-party consensus, a consensus in the Croatian people because they were defenders from all layers of society represented in the fight for independence and independence, for democracy and freedom. Both left Croats and right Croats and central Croats, all participated in the fight for free, democratic, independent Croatia, and this fight as we know it led, because we won the HDZ elections and President Tudjman, but also the right Croats and left Croats and so on. If you want centrist Croats, big deal. We heard that Croatia, and specifically, and if you want HDZ, is supposed to be strutting with some people, there are various coalitions. In BiH, HDZ does not make any coalitions, they are made up by a sister party called HDZ BiH, the Republic of Croatia does not interfere with politics in BiH, HDZ interferes with politics in BiH, there our partners choose their own partners and, as they wish, their partners won and received more votes in the elections than they did four years ago. Even the candidate for the presidency.../incomprehensible/... Croatian peoples received more votes than four years ago. So the Croats there recognize who is fighting for their interests and are self-assembling their alliances, which we do not influence in Croatia's HDZ, we have no influence at all. Whether we will behave, but of course we will do our obligation to implement the BiH Constitution because we have signed the Dayton Agreement, we will continue to implement it and we will tell all partners in Europe and the world, that BiH will not be a functioning state in this way, that it looks like the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, that first Yugoslavia that has failed because it has become an inequality and that will do so by the Republic of Croatia, that I will do so as a parliamentary representative and that may be done by the Croatian Government because we expect and there are consensus there and there are left Croats and right Croats who see it in a very similar way, if not in an identical way, there are things that are clear. And the third point again is that famous visit by President Vukic, president of Serbia to Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has no complexes, the Republic of Croatia has won the Homeland War, the Croatian Army has fought on the ground of the Republic of Croatia and is in our interest to have normal relations with its neighbours. The fact that neighbours in this particular case Serbia must pass the catharsis, of course we have a consensus in Croatian politics again, and this catharsis will not be possible for us in Croatia, it must be carried out by the Serbian people not by us, but when we receive someone and this President Vukic, we do so as proud hosts of a country that has freed ourselves from Serbian imperialism, from major Serb aggression without complexes because we are aware of our strengths, our responsibilities and the status of a member of the political West, and today we have discussed how we will send our Croatian soldiers to missions around the world as part of the NATO alliance. Croatia without complexes, aware of its responsibilities, its rights and proud of how it acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u92403	Thank you very much, this will end this debate, we will continue to work on Monday 29 October at 9.30 and the first point will be the Final Proposal of the Law on Testing. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 1400 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93553	This brings us to the end of free debates and we now move on to today's agenda. The first is: - The final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 415 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the Most. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Please welcome Minister of Culture Nina Obuljen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93554	Honorable MPs and MPs. As the President of the Parliament pointed out, the Government proposed that this law be considered in an emergency procedure and the reason was to comply with the Law on Museums adopted by this Parliament in the 7th month, and therefore we proposed to actually amend and supplement adoption in an urgent procedure so that we could access the completion of the work on all the rules prescribed by both the Museums Act and this law. I only note that the Government has also referred to the Library Act in the procedure which will now be in its first reading, today it is on the board, and in fact part of the provision relating to the protection of cultural goods referred to in this law is also referred to as anti-dumping and amendments to the Library Law. As for the amendments and additions themselves, after the changes and additions that we proposed last year and adopted by this Assembly, which were related to certain restrictions related to preventive protection, then the issue of the restrictions on the return of funds when the state invests in the restoration of cultural goods within 5 years and certain improvements and more precise definitions related to the collection of monumental rents, at this stage, in fact, with provisions concerning compliance with the Law on Museums and the Law on Librarys, we propose further improvements and all on the trail of the objectives of this Government to make the procedure as simple as possible, to reduce administrative pressures and to go towards redistribution of the economy. So let me explain very briefly what the amendment and the additions are about. First of all, I would point out that as probably the most important part of these changes and additions, we define archaeological structures that, together with buildings that are located above the surface of the earth, make up one functional whole. Perhaps it is best to explain what is involved in the case of Diocletian’s basements. This is the problem we've been trying to solve, which the institutions have been trying to solve, I dare say for decades, and it's not been able to solve, and that's the question, therefore, of the archeological heritage that lies beneath urban units. Diocletian basements have a series of cities that we predominate to find such valuable archaeological sites. Here, in the previous cabinet session, we also had certain decisions regarding, for example, along the Labin mines that also enter partly beneath the tissues of the urban whole. So, what's this about? So far, such a building has not been able to register, it has not been possible to put them in any kind of governance system, to entrust them to someone, and what is extremely important, it was not possible to round them up and possibly run for EU funds that are available to us in connection with the restoration of cultural heritage. So, these amendments and additions to the Law, which we have worked in cooperation with and with the Ministry of Justice which has helped us to find a solution, we are actually finding a solution to how we are going to separate the recording of what lies above the ground from what is underground, to register such archaeological sites, which, as we know ex-lege, are owned by the Republic, find mechanisms to put them into use and then manage them as we manage other cultural goods. Another important change that I also believe will significantly disburse certain local self-governments that have such localities, as well as entrepreneurs who own such localities. So far, we have been able to register cultural goods exclusively on the basis of the precise boundaries of cadastrian particles. When it comes to some major areas, especially agricultural areas or areas through which certain infrastructure facilities, which are outside the urban area, we know that these particles can be very, very large. A very plastic example, we had in Dugopoly, in the industrial zone, the need to limit one particle of several acres because somewhere in a small part was supposed to be an archaeological site. So now, this bill that is before you we are actually allowing these boundaries of cultural goods in our register to be defined not only by catastrian particles, but also by others, limited by some other markings in space such as. River streams, roads, railway lines. This is also extremely important for defining the coverage of archaeological sites which are sub-sea archaeological sites. The third topic I would like to highlight is the abolition of the obligation to publish everything that is registered in the National Journal, given that now the Register of Cultural goods is publicly available since we are in the process means, overlapping land cadastres and our Register in such a way that this, as an E service, will be available to our citizens and we do not feel that there is a need for this administrative process to actually change everything that changes in the Register, to be published in the National Journals. Another question that is important concerns the first question. In the latest amendments and additions to the Law, we have limited the issue first to the individual protected cultural goods. Namely, especially our mayors, the mayors know that they had to respond very often to first-price requirements in protected building environments that don't actually have any cultural property, but just because they're in a protected whole, you had to. for an apartment in a building built in 1964, waiting for the whole procedure of the first bath. So here we go another step further and we actually allow local self-government to be decided in advance by the law on how to consume the system first in a given period. We believe that this will also allow one and more legal certainty to all those involved in real estate traffic, local self-government, so that they can, therefore, be clearly determined according to those priorities for which the regime will benefit. Another issue that is extremely important, especially in our protected historical units, for which, in accordance with the UNESCO Convention, we are establishing a contact area is the issue of introducing a contact area in our legislation. In accordance with the UNESCO Convention, enrolment on the UNESCO World Heritage List, the monument is recorded in particular when it comes to the totals, but also the individual monuments. And the area bordering that monument, and because of that, whatever development in that area may have an impact on the monument, is defined as a contact zone. Although only by ratification of the Convention, we assume all obligations, including this obligation, this nomenclature, until now it has not been included in our law, and we define these amendments and additions to the contact zone in definitions and we prescribe that the regulation that normally regulates the system of protection measures will also cover the contact zone. What is very important here to say, with this all the elements of protection relating to the area, which should not be protected as a cultural historical unit, we will actually build into the building of a conservative base in spatial planning documentation. This is an amendment that will again allow our cities, but also citizens, who own the property, to do so in advance, and based on their insight into spatial planning documentation, they know very precisely what their conditions are, without going through strict procedures and sometimes long-term procedures to get all the permits for buildings or properties, which are clearly lacking the properties of cultural goods. We prescribe, of course, the criteria for making these conservative... I must say that we have already planned in the budget for the next year a certain amount and that we are resources and we will see how the budget will of course pass and that, in cooperation with the cities, as much as we can in relation to our capacities, we have stepped up the preparation of these conservative bases, in order to speed up the production of these basic documents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have already mentioned the question of compliance with the law on museums and the anti-cipulation of a solution that we will propose in the Law on Libraryes, and about the protection of cultural heritage, very briefly I will say, the urgency was that the current situation where we have, in fact, parallelly or two times, inverted heritage in museums, and then reregistered through a special procedure in the register of cultural goods, we have now actually prescribed the Law on Museums, and this will also be in the Law on Librarys, that inventory books become a work of registers, and in fact only once will it have to be determined whether what is in the museum is culturally good or not. And after that, these parts, inventory books, i.e., museum registers and libraries, will become consistent with these changes and additions... an integral part of the register of cultural goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the last thing I would like to point out, once again, is that we consider serious discharge, administrative, but also the creation of a single environment, which provides legal certainty, and refers to licences for working on cultural goods. So far, we have had the situation that according to the law and regulations, these licences were to be renewed every 5 years, and for a large number of our entrepreneurs was an extremely complex administrative complex business where they had to gather opinions about all the procedures they had performed on cultural goods, carried out in accordance with the law, these opinions were collected from our conservation departments. Then we went through one procedure, and they were granted those licenses again. I have to say that in 20 years, the existence of this regulation, here I have to say only one license was actually taken, and we've been going through 10 and hundreds of shifts a year, where our entrepreneurs, sometimes had to wait for a license and lose the right to report to some contest. We now change that system, the license is issued permanently, and we prescribe the reasons why it can be taken away. In this way we also reduce the cost of entrepreneurs, we create one security, in which they know, if they work on cultural goods, according to the law, that they will not have to go through any administrative procedures. The second amendment we make to this law, which applies to licences, refers to the fact that the licence system was covered by an ad and by a natural and legal person. We are now changing it and saying that a legal person must provide a licence in a way that employs natural persons who have permission to work on cultural goods. Because in fact, you could hire a certain number of people who have passed and who have the conditions to get a license. During those four or five years, they could all leave your company, and your company still had a license to work on cultural goods. Now we tie it to a natural person, because it's a natural person who actually has to prove competence, professionally, etc. At the end of the amendment and addition of this law, it will lead to the amendment of the two regulations, regulations on the form and content of the way in which the register is kept, which we are preparing, but which we will definitely finish when the law on libraries is passed, and in order to be able to amend that whole rule. And as for the rule on the terms of a natural and legal person, we've been anticipating these changes in one piece and we've actually already had a public debate, I have to admit with very positive reactions so that this rule is relatively fast, I hope power and adoption, and I hope, as of next year, that license will create one situation of maximum administrative discharge. Here is a brief explanation of these changes and additions, and of course we are available for any additional questions or explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93555	I thank the minister. We have eight replicas. The first is the esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93556	Dear Minister, of course this law should, definitely. However, there is an even more important rule here, and here, in the end, many things are left at the will of the employees themselves, according to the institutions of the Ministry of Culture, i.e. by conservatory departments. There were a whole series of situations that I and in written correspondence delivered to the Ministry of Culture where it was eventually left to the will, that is, the will of certain employees in the Ministry of Culture to do whatever they wanted. We have fantastic situations where actually old buildings turn into new buildings, and new buildings are being built that emit old buildings and no one reacts to it. We have a fantastic situation in front of UNESCO's cultural monument, so zeroth category... Cathedral of St. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Jacob's got ice cream boxes on him today, umbrellas, and your employees go to work every day and observe it. So rules and responsible behavior and above all we need, and certainly new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93557	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93558	I'm thanking you. It's always hard when we hear a whole series of self-will situations, etc., we always need to back up the data. The question of interpolation is, I was just saying a little bit more about it right now, the question of the treatment of the contact zone, and if you've been listening to my explanations, I've just announced that we've already decided for the following year to work more intensively on the conservative bases, the conservative bases are a prerequisite for spatial planning documentation, and then spatial planning documentation is done as well as possible, which can't be done. But as far as the ice cream box is concerned, you have to report to the communal directors, it's not in the jurisdiction of the conservatory departments, nor do the conservation departments deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93559	Second replica, respected colleague Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93560	We welcome the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure, but it remains unclear why the rules and deadlines for the regulations provided for a maximum period of 180 days when we know that this is an extremely important matter defined by this law. We are also interested in how and when you intend to install spatial plans in accordance with the law in spatial construction and arrangement? So when are you going to provide for certain changes and when are you going to comply with the Law on Planning and Spatial Construction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93561	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93562	I'm thanking you. You probably didn't hear, I was just in my opening statement and I told you about the regulations, two regulations are being provided, one will be relatively quick to finish because this one is also about licenses because we already had a public debate. And the second rule is much more complex, so once the law comes into force, we need to define the contact zones, only then can we access it and then pass a regulation that will be arranged, and I also pointed out that this law has provided for compliance with the law on museums, but also with the law on libraries that will be discussed now in the first reading, I hope, in the coming weeks. Then another reading. And when that law comes into force and those parts have to go into that rulebook, the rulebook has to be in public debate for a month, so the six-month deadline seems to be the only real one. And as far as spatial planning documentation as you know, it's in the jurisdiction of cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93563	Thank you. Third replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93564	Thank you very much. Minister, the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods, changes were urgently needed and this law needs to be discussed more seriously. Tell me the answers to three questions: How are we going to protect cultural goods from Athens pillars or base stations like this? who on the fortress of the Cliss, will be allowed on the walls of Dubrovnik, on the bell tower of St. Duje, at the Church of the Lady of Sin or the fortress or the Sibenik Cathedral? We've got the base stations of a telecommunications operator on cultural well-being. And it's not protected. The second question is, what about the submarine, our cultural well-being, how do you protect it? On the submarine, how do we protect this cultural well-being when we haven't declared an exclusive economic belt? And third, that's what I've asked you, and the parliamentary question, you haven't responded, how with those cultural goods buildings that threaten people's lives, and no one will react? Not even the conservatory department, and people are on their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93565	Comrade Bulj, thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93566	I'll start with this last one. So I know what you mean about the building in Sinj, it's a matter of ownership relations and it's really extremely difficult because whether a building is culturally well or not culturally well, if a building threatens security, then the owners are obliged to do whatever they have to do in accordance with the law, and it's not the Law in cultural goods. As for the protection of the submarines, I must say it has nothing to do with the economic belt, I don't know how you connected it. What's found, what's... and which is entered in the registers into the protection regime, if it is located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, whether or not it is an economic belt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the antenna pillars, it's hard to talk like this, so conservatives give conditions there when it comes to individual cultural goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93567	Thank you. Let's move on now, dear colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93568	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I have a very simple question. The work of inspection from your jurisdiction is extremely important, it's extremely important, I don't think, just to get out and punish you, but also to act advisoryly. It means the work of an inspection of any on the ground and it's important their advisory role, we've made a little bit of a mess, so we're just experiencing inspections, as someone who comes out and punishes. Given that it is currently in the public debate, a law that unites all inspections, i.e., not all, but some, I am interested in whether inspections from your jurisdiction will remain out of the power of the minister who is in charge of this authority or will be in that large inspection at the state level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93569	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93570	I thank you for this question. No, it is not envisaged that the inspection of the Ministry of Culture is so not foreseen in the public debate, in the text which is... in the public debate, therefore, remains in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93571	5th replica, dear colleague Curai, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93572	I would like to thank the President, Your Honor. First of all, absolutely commendation for this administrative discharge although I must correct you, or, first of all, in your speech, you said that in the case of an amendment. 3. 7th and Rights 1st are not the problems of the local self-government unit. They give it, but it's the problem of the state. So most of the time, in 99% of the cases, this is resolved by the administration's silences, i.e. over a 60-day period. To units issue their solution on time, the state does not. And as far as the most important thing, as you said, changes as far as art is concerned. 19th and definitions of the book, i.e., in the case of construction goods, I am interested, only in compliance with the real law of the Republic of Croatia, i.e., in principle with... who says the building is also followed by the legal fate of the land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm still interested in, as far as private property is concerned, if we're talking about basement spaces, they should be catastrian and ownership under one owner, or, or, follow the same legal destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93573	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93574	What I mentioned earlier was ex-lege archaeology property of the Republic of Croatia. So that's exactly why it was necessary to find a solution, and if you're reading the provisions correctly, we think we've found an adequate solution. So, you and now, regardless of the principle you mention, you as a person of property, which was above 0 and above, couldn't register, to what theoretically, would be considered the basement of your building, if so can I so say, given that ex-lege archeology is owned by the Republic of Croatia. Here we were really in one legal vacuum and we have to, admit to consulting other countries, looking for solutions, we know and we've all been walking Roman catacombs, etc. And I believe that we have indeed found any solution that will allow us to put these places of value into operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93575	Let's move on. Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93576	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, the tension between the two sides is known, the necessary protection of cultural heritage and the need for a modern era of urban development, including markets. The tension exists in Croatia, but also throughout Europe. The government is now proposing a series of proposals, so that this could be resolved or at least mitigated between the other and the new way to book archaeological sites. I would ask you to further elaborate during the debate which are direct and indirect financial effects, such better management of cultural heritage, especially for the development of local environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93577	Okay, fine. Then let's go to seven lines, dear colleague Glavak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93578	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. You were talking about administrative discharges, first of all you looked back at work licenses. I don't think my colleagues understand enough or can't read from this explanation why it's important. What is important to people who are engaged in conservation or restoration affairs, those who are in direct operation, in the performance of these works, have really had problems, some permits were to be renewed, after several years, so also the financial impact on one side and how much it will actually simplify and restore and preserve cultural goods. Someone touched the rulebook, I think it's a good thing that something is going to be defined by the rules, that it doesn't have to be intervened every time in legislative changes, because the rules are more flexible, and you said themselves, one of them is already in public debate. This makes it easier to process, to build and to carry out activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93579	Thank you. Later, too. Then we're going to the 8th line, dear colleague Klaric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93580	Your Honor, Madam Minister, I welcome these amendments to the law. And I'm stuck in your presentation, and I want to make that clear to the end, so I welcome the obligation to make conservative decisions, and I welcome this term, the contact zone. Now, in a scratch that would mean, in a specific case, my city, which is a protected urban unit, within which from the time of Yugoslavia there is a pollutant. Luke for... The burdens of Rijeka, which without a sewer system, without a storm drain, on a daily basis, ask the whole city, devasts cultural monuments in the area, and practically no inspections could do anything to limit them. that is, the work has put into some contexts, which could satisfy the needs of life in this city at all and protect cultural goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Does this mean local self-government units, in particular my city, the spatial plan, based on this conservative base, will be able to limit the work of such a pollutant?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93581	... You got it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93582	Just for a little while, um... Perhaps even if there is an opportunity in the final word, it is very difficult now to correct the things that have happened before and we are aware of the problems that in protected units in the Republic there are certain structures that actually to go to protect this whole today, it could never be protected as a whole because of them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have, in addition to these amendments to the laws and regulations that we represent, made one system of education and intensive work with the conservative service to address exactly these problems, but also some others, the behaviour of conservatives in the cases of energy renewal requirements, the question of interpretation, the issue of treatment and protection measures in protected units where we believe that we must in some way reternize, preserve what still has monumental properties, and the rest through the regimes of contact zones installed in the planning documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93583	Thank you. Let's go to the last line, dear fellow Uncle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93584	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, of course I support the envisaged amendments and additions to the law, but my question concerns the collection of origins, does protecting the registration of traditional collections make any difference? In fact, many small environments are unable to establish their museums because their problem is also a financial problem, and of course they are humane and they are setting up their own heritage collections that are within the corners, municipalities, schools. Does it mean that in this respect what changes or even if it is going to be encouraged in what way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93585	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93586	Thank you for that question. Let me remind you, in the 7th month, the Museum Act was passed and we in that law actually set different criteria for the establishment of the ancient collections precisely because there is a valuable cultural heritage that has the property of cultural goods that can be presented, but because of relatively rigorous rules for the establishment of museums, less environments could not have simply financially afforded it. We have now made it possible for these collections to be established, presented, legally opened to the public, and professional jobs to actually be entrusted to any parent museum or larger museum, which will do the necessary professional work for these smaller collections. And this rule will only regulate itself, which stems from this law as these registers, if it comes to cultural goods, become an integral part of the register of cultural goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93587	Thank you. We've exhausted the replicas with this, so let's go see if the committee's reporters will take the floor? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, a respected colleague of Suncana Glavak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93588	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear minister, assistant minister, co-workers and colleagues. All that contributes to the preservation of cultural heritage and simplifies the course of the HDZ Club's actions will support, as will these amendments and additions. The key starting point of protection and preservation of cultural goods is, in fact, the knowledge of the monumental values that we need to keep with each cultural goods. Monumental values are also the reason why a cultural well-being is protected and given the status of cultural goods, and therefore these values determine the way in which cultural goods, maintenance or any other activities related to protected goods are used. Why do I say this in the beginning? Because here, through these replicas addressed to the ministers, different ways are being questioned which and how we do, we can also say in today's modern times when from 1999, when we had the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the weather changed, the circumstances changed and, of course, we have to take different care of our cultural goods. Care for cultural heritage involves primary protection and preservation of the monumental heritage, I believe we are all aware of, material and immaterial heritage which is the basis of every identity of a nation. What today brings about changes and additions to the laws on the protection and preservation of cultural goods is, in fact, regulation and simplification of several procedures. The minister spoke about redefining the contact zone or defining the contact zone of cultural goods, we can say that the rules of the game will be known, above all to investors, especially all those who want to build or engage in some kind of activity. It is about cultural goods that are listed on the World Heritage List or on the World Heritage List. Such a zone will also be determined by the way of protection to be installed in spatial planning documents, so it will be primarily on units of local self-government and thus ensure that the cultural goods themselves are protected. Procedures in the contact zone of cultural goods entered in the World Heritage List or in the World Heritage List will be fully freed from administrative proceedings through the competent conservation department, they will already be directly within the framework of the entry of documents from building or spatial regulations. By further regulating the use of first purchase rights, which was a very big problem on cultural goods for the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional, i.e. regional self-government, will facilitate the legal traffic of real estate in their area. This will also eliminate traffic jams in real estate, and legal traffic will also be facilitated. In particular, this refers to properties in the area of protected archaeological sites that are not physically in contact with the cultural layer, there were also questions about the Minister's opening statement. Delivery of solutions will be prescribed on the website of the Ministry of Culture for cultural historical units, cultural landscapes, archaeological sites, publication of the above-mentioned solution and on the website of the Ministry of Culture, and delivery of solutions will be considered the expiry of the eighth day from the day of publication on the website. The cost of funding from the state budget is also reduced, henceforth unnecessary double publication in the means of public communication. As far as legal regulation is concerned, it will regulate the legal status of Diocletian's palace in the area of Diocletian's palace in Split. The process of identifying the properties of cultural goods, museum construction and museum documentation, will be conducted by enrolling public museums in the inventory book of buildings and documentation, which will also harmonize the provisions of the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods and New Museums Act. The process of identifying the properties of cultural goods for library construction will also be arranged, and the catalogues of public libraries will become part of the register of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia which is publicly available and which can serve as an example and transparency, but also of course to those who want to explore cultural goods in some other way. This shortens the administrative process of enrolling museum buildings and documentation, as well as library buildings in the register of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia. It was here and intro and on the rules, the rules on conditions for obtaining permission to perform tasks on the protection and preservation of cultural goods. The process of obtaining permission will be simplified in several ways. I have to say that over the past few years, there have been a lot of objections and ambiguities, and I think it's much better regulated now by the performers of cultural goods. Therefore, permission to perform jobs, to protect and preserve cultural goods will be issued permanently, the administrative process of re-exiting the permit is reduced, and unnecessary delays in the conduct of professional activities, as well as complete, construction and conservation work are excluded. Such amendments will only be issued to a natural person and will be based on professional training and acquired experience, while the legal person and craftsman who carry out those tasks will be obliged to ensure the work of a natural person, who has that authorisation or appropriate expertise. It shall be ensured that permit holders of an expert, projectors, conservatives, restorers, while the quality of the works carried out is ensured by professional documentation. In addition, all this is done and all works are carried out with the supervision of the competent conservation departments, as well as after the completion of each situation the conservatives must review again and must see if all works are carried out in accordance with the law. The economic operators, therefore, performers, masters, any profile, have been completely freed from out-of-date permits and have been registered in a public tender, their references deciding what is in line with and with the positive practices of the EU countries. The amendments to the laws and regulations will also define a way of withdrawing the authorisation to perform jobs, to protect and preserve cultural goods, which we must say so far has not been clearly defined. The above clear parameters of the Regulation will be avoided by the subjective, conservative assessment, which has been questioned, perhaps at some time with the right, and the reduced possibility of manipulation by the resulting authorisation. The authorisation will no longer be issued to natural persons who have a professional calling for restoration conservation work. That's it. if they are employed at the Croatian Restaurant Institute or museum, where the acquisition of professional titles is regulated, which will further indirectly reduce so-called ". the accumulation of the administration, which deals with the issue of permits. All these amendments, therefore, simplify the authorisation process, facilitate the business conditions of economic operators and state administration bodies, which will certainly have positive effects on better dynamics, implementation of projects in the field of protection and preservation of cultural heritage, financed both by the state budget and very often by EU funds. In conclusion, all I'm going to say is that it's a human factor that's always crucial, in what we call preservation, but also in what we call devastion. That is why it is necessary for the legal basis to be some sort of guideline or guidance in the way in which, in the best way, protect individual cultural well-being. The relationship to heritage, the best witness about one people, about its culture, about its awareness and in the extreme case, about the respect of our heritage for future generations, moral, civilization, ethically, whatever it is you want us to do is to protect our heritage, to preserve it for future generations, to make the heritage, added to economic value, the tourist value, but of course, that it first testifies to our culture and identity. The HDZ Club will support the proposed changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93589	We're going to another Club of Representatives, it's SDP, it's a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93590	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As we have heard on several occasions, in previous discussions and replicas, the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the establishment of protection against cultural goods, obligations and rights owners of cultural goods, concessions, concessions, cultural goods, measures to protect and preserve cultural goods, the pursuit of jobs to protect cultural goods, the execution of administrative and inspection jobs, the work and the work of the Croatian Council for Cultural Goods, the financing of protection and preservation of cultural goods, as well as other issues related to the protection and preservation of cultural goods. In the SDP club, we believe that the basic issues that are regulated by this law, such as the definition of the contact zone of cultural goods, which is listed in the World Heritage List, as defined by the way borders are defined, for cultural landscapes and sub-sea archaeological sites. Also mentioned several times, the erasure of the provisions on public publication and the registration of changes and erasure of cultural goods in the National Journal, as it is also explained that all this information on cultural goods is published through the register of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia. We also believe that it is well resolved that the building of archaeological importance and other archaeological sites and mining facilities of interest to the Republic of Croatia are legally separated from the land surface from the cadastrian particles located above them and thus the procedure for determining the status of public goods in general use is also prescribed. It is well regulated to use the law of first purchase on cultural goods in such a way that the Republic of Croatia and the units of local and regional self-government can decide that, during a certain period of time or for certain cultural goods, the right of first purchase will not be used to facilitate the legal traffic of real estate in their territory. We heard that this law, among other things, is very important because it's in line with the new Museum Law so that I wouldn't do it over and over again. It is also arranged to protect and preserve library buildings as cultural goods in a way that catalogues of libraries become part of the register of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the consequences that the law will have will significantly improve the care of cultural goods. So, according to the SDP MPs' club so far, it will support this legislative proposal. A few remarks we have from the field will be highlighted in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93591	Thank you. Let's go to three. A club of representatives, MOST independent lists, respected colleague Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93592	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. Amendment and addition of the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. We welcome every positive shift in ensuring a better legislative framework because the fact is that it is necessary to access changes to an inefficient system of heritage registers relating to cultural historical units. He needs to be legally aligned with the Law on Spatial Planning as soon as possible. Today, all incidents come to the resolution of the conservatives and certainly should be responsible for both the city and county offices for spatial planning. So all our documents must be in agreement with spatial plans, that's also beneficial to investors. Now in this respect we have a chaotic system. For example, if something is culturally good, it must be implemented through the plan spatially and vice versa. Today it is the case that we have the same for cultural goods, those that are registered and, for example, in Slovenia, it is not. This cannot be solved through the regulations, so there is a comprehensive and complete change here that regulates the system. It is clear from the proposed amendments why the proposed amendments to the Protection Act on the Conservation of Cultural Goods are now being referred to in the urgent procedure. It's important to put out the fire. There are no systems here, these are fire measures and the Republic of Croatia has major problems in relations with UNESCO. For example, the historical core of the city of Split. MOSTO's campaign through the thematic session in the city where we proposed actually establishing contact zones means that the city, through its urban committee, does the same thing in a way to stop some attempts. The core of Split with the former Diocletian palace is a unique world pearl of architecture, we have not protected it properly for years. Moreover, for years UNESCO has been shown that there is no problem with protection in Split, although the problems are huge because Split is one place under the protection of UNESCO in the Republic of Croatia that has no additional protection, the buffer zone. In the official answers sent to the UNESCO Central Office for years, the Ministry of Culture said that protecting the historical core of Split is enough and that no additional protection zone, contact zone, should be introduced. But today, however, we have amendments to the laws that we welcome towards the introduction of these very contact areas. It is similar with Trogir, where the protection zone is also not large enough and from the Ministry of Culture have been leaving completely conflicting statements for years. Today, according to the profession for Trogir the established zone comes too late when everything in the area is already ruined by unplanned construction. At one time Trogir had a large and beautiful town on the island of Ciovo, today it is completely lost in a bunch of new buildings so that even a professional eye can no longer recognize the same. We want that to happen to Split soon. And don't just say that Split and Trogir are protected by the Act on the Protection of Cultural Goods, because the effects of this protection are seen on the number of examples in Dalmatia and Croatia. We welcome any changes in the law regarding historical units, including relations with UNESCO and point to the necessary systematic changes. How all you intend to install into spatial plans when and how you foresee compliance with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. The MOST of Independent Lists shall hold unacceptable deadlines for the adoption of rules on the management of cultural, cultural goods, the identification of protection measures systems and the scope and contact zones of cultural goods and the regulation of conditions to be met by a natural and legal person for the purpose of obtaining permission to perform research, restoration, maintenance and restoration of cultural goods. In Articles 3, 7 and 12, you provided for one deadline of 180 days. In your presentation earlier, you said that a rule is already in public consultation, and I ask you to approach the amendments to the law in view of that, if any of these three regulations can be passed within an earlier period, to do the same. Cultural goods in the Republic of Croatia should be managed in a transparent and functional manner, and the same includes transparent record-keeping, order-making of cultural goods and the provision of mechanisms and instruments that complement measures to protect cultural goods that will be installed in spatial plans, thus ensuring the protection of the exceptional, universal value of cultural goods that Croatia has. As one of the consequences that will arise through the law, a contact zone of cultural goods entered in the World Heritage List or in the list of endangered world heritage is defined. The protected zone will be determined by a way of protection to be installed in spatial plans, thus ensuring that the cultural goods themselves are protected. So in Article 7, when it comes to adoption, it follows, building into spatial plans that require time, and in some cases we don't have any particular cultural goods on the World Heritage List. Therefore, through the amendment, we propose a reduction of the deadline by 2 months means that the rules proposed in Article be adopted. 3., 7 and 12. In order for these rules to come into effect as soon as possible to make real changes in life as soon as possible and to ultimately protect their cultural heritage from world importance and to use the same means, for economic growth and development, to strengthen us as a tourist destination and attract new visitors for the purpose of raising the tourist offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93593	Now it's the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club. Dear colleague Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93594	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. She's an esteemed minister with an assistant, a colleague and a colleague. We have before us an urgent process of amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Protection and preservation of cultural goods is of paramount importance for each country. It is extremely important because it speaks about the country's image, it speaks about how we treat our past, and how we treat our past is to conclude and how we will treat our future. We at the GLAS and HSU Club support changes and changes that are a step forward. And these changes are a step forward. You need to see those things that matter. I'd like to point out three things that are extremely important. The first thing that's important, which is that they're going to try to get rid of it, I'm talking about trying to solve it on purpose because I'm going to show a little bit what it's like in real life, or a little bit, or what it's like in real life, underground catastra. So there are countries that run the underground and underground catastres and thus have it defined by their own regulations. Croatia is not one of those countries, Croatia solves it differently. Perhaps those amongst us who we remember when a tourniquet was being built in the city of Zagreb, one of the key things was how to define it. And that's why the effort made by the Ministry by amending and supplementing the law, which is to try to solve what's underground and to define as such is commendable, but we'll see how it's actually going to be. The other thing is that perhaps, it is not so much in its presentation of ministers, and I appreciate that it is extremely important, and that is setting limits for the cultural landscape. The cultural landscape is a new concept we use. The cultural landscape also speaks of the country, speaks of certain visions, speaks of certain conditions, and that is why it is important to define it in the law. And the third thing that's important is that a natural person gets a license. So far, this procedure has been complicated, it's been difficult. We have really capacitated certain companies that deal with the fact that a certain amount of documentation is being delivered again and again, and actually a license can be obtained by a natural person. The license needs to be given to a natural person for the simple reason that people are being educated and are still being educated for certain knowledge, and because absolutely after 20 years we had one way, it's good to deal with this the other way. Now a few words about real life. The first topic everyone's ever talked about here, and that's the theme of spatial-planned documentation. I only know of a relatively small number of plans that have quality conservative bases from which to read all that needs to be read for the right information to our citizens. At the end of 2013, a new Law on Spatial Planning was adopted. He entered into force in 2014. That law gave us the opportunity to make plans. So, we now, you can see, there are no regulations in which we don't talk about e documentation, in which we don't talk about e archives, and in reality it's a little different. And then, among other things, when it was a desire to make plans, it was also discussed with the Ministry responsible for the protection of cultural goods, to see what was the situation with conservative bases that they might ultimately be just or possibly being scanned and being the basis of all of it. What does that mean in reality? So, just to be clear, for the simple reason that a good desire for documentation is a good wish. In reality, today, that means next. You have your cadastar particle, you look into the plan and you see that there is a possible construction. You're reading from the plan as simple as possible now, let's say two floors. And then you see that it's also, that it's worse, that it's protected from the aspect of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods. You don't have any other indicators in your plan, you have to go to some designer, that designer has to give you some idea solution, and you're going to go to the competent office with that idea solution so they can write you the proposition that you're going to respect. Then it's projected behind it. Those things may not require a local and construction permit. The purpose of the plans, i.e. e-documentation and conservation documents, is that you or you or a designer or someone can read the guidelines and conditions immediately. But the computer just shows what we put in the computer. That means, in other words, all of what we have today, all of what's in the drawers today, everything that's in the conservatory offices, everything that's in the restoration services needs to be done today. And that takes time. So, in 2014, it was a conversation to get it going. So, we, it's the end of 2018, in 5 years we know that no major shift has been made. The minister is in her opening statement, by the way, I forgot to say, and every time the minister comes to defend the law, I kind of stress it with two aspects because it means that he cares about the minister until the law and that the law is passed, and on the other hand, it means that the minister, in the extreme line, respects the parliamentary representatives and comes here before them, so that I don't miss the opportunity, I usually say it. So, let's go back to the e-documentation. That takes time. The Minister said the end of next year. There's one rulebook that will define that. To get to work now, we can have it for a part of Croatia three, four years ago, and that needs a clear word. Now, there will have to be a decision, there are parts of Croatia where there is something intensified by construction, where the plans are something in better condition, where the catastre is in something better, so there will be a decision there and it won't be able to all of a sudden because if it all starts all of a sudden, then there will be nothing. Of course, I can't miss talking about this law without saying about the case I've talked about several times from this pay phone, which is the city of Zagreb and Meštrović's pavilion or so on. mosque. The work done there under the Construction Act did not require a building permit but should have been the main project and the application of the beginning of works. At the beginning of the work, they decided to edit the trails and replace the stairs. Finally, 200 stone blocks were removed, each weighing slightly less than a ton and replaced by new stone blocks. There were two topics open. One topic is whether it is an appropriate stone and the ministry has on several occasions assessed and said it is an appropriate stone but another topic is the appropriate project documentation. All of you who ride in Zagreb, pass around the mosque, or you will pass, take a look at what it looks like and take a look at what's done there. There is exactly what Mr. Bandic wants to do, he shows that he can, and also shows the citizens of the Lower City that he doesn't care about them because it's not his electoral body and he clearly sends it to all his performances and all his ways of talking about it. I asked the Ministry of Culture what happened here and what opinions were issued and I received the answer that was before the summer break that they were issued, so the agreement of replacing the stone to a kind of stone but that no adequate project documentation was provided and that the project documentation should be delivered to the Ministry, when I asked it in the City Assembly, sees wonders, just the day I asked that question in the City Assembly was the alleged documentation delivered to the Ministry. What exactly am I trying to say? And the question I asked the minister was about the inspection. So it's about works on a protected facility that is protected with all aspects, which is one of Zagreb's memorial paintings when you should tell you at night or early in the morning what the memory pictures of Zagreb are, you would probably say to the cathedral, probably the HNK, I suppose the Trg bana Jelačić, the monument to King Tomislav, and it would certainly be Meštrović's pavilion or so on. mosque. When working on such a thing then a special emphasis should be really professions, the profession should be controlled, the ministry given the coalition that is here and in the city of Zagreb has shrugged and I really part of the responsibility is on the ministry but it is real life and it is really happening. I suppose the papers will be done somewhere by the end of the year, and the like or dissatisfaction can always be discussed what anyone likes but what's important is that the ministry in the whole story has shriveled. This shows that the ministry is staring at other things too, but this will be a subject for another time. What this law reads is very important what should be activity, and these activities are indeed behind better conservation bases because quality conservative bases can also be the basis for quality spatial planning. Of the 556 municipalities and towns in the Republic of Croatia, all have a spatial plan of planning the municipality and the city. And everyone has something to do with the protection of cultural goods and in spatial planning they also have some processes. The process that should have been followed and this law allows and it is good to be highlighted, which is a quality conservative basis which will thus solve certain doubts. I think at one point, there's a question that's a wreck, so I'd say something about the ruins. In Croatia we are indeed witnesses especially in the areas that were devastated in the war, the rest of the ruins. These ruins are dangerous to people's lives and health. At the end of 2013, and since the beginning of 2014, there has been a Law on Construction Inspection and Communal Inspection which speaks of units of local self-government, if first and foremost the owner needs to remove, but if the owner does not remove, and it is found to be dangerous for the lives and health of people, then the units of local self-government remove it from their budget and sit on property that is or are registered on that property, or on land, and it works. There's only one part where it's not like that, when the facility is protected from the aspect of the protection of cultural goods, then it's not possible. So I think that this message is evident in this amendment and the addition of the law is not possible, the emergency procedure is and it wasn't about the subject, but maybe the message to the ministry that's already been going on, so you've already had changes and additions to the law, sit down with the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, try out the model, change two laws, so one is the Law on Construction and Communal Inspection, and the other is yours, for a simple reason, so it's not all the same everywhere. Somewhere it's really worth it so much that you'll decide, I absolutely understand the profession of a conservative, someone on the side is looking, and it's the same to him. Dangerous to life, dangerous to health, are not all objects in the same status, some are really not allowed to crash for the simple reason because we have somehow forgiven ourselves from our past but some of these objects could really collapse because the question is how much more from the aspect of the protection of cultural goods are and the question is who has more money, has the means to bring it back to some decent state. Therefore, there should be a voice of common sense and see what it is, but encouraged by a colleague who mentioned it, I think it is time to think about it for the simple reason why it is our situation, if it remains a wreck a little longer, you will have nothing more to protect because it will collapse on its own, but it can always get killed by one of the people who can be naturally devastating and not good. We have all the laws that we have now and all the laws that are in the parliamentary procedure, part of them always has this theme economy, part of them always has a theme demography, but everyone has and we all swear on e, e citizens, e permits, e plans, conservatory studies, and then the archives. Then when I ask you have an e archive, that means you don't have a paper archive, says no, no, no, no, no, we don't have paper. I think it's come and everyone's working, ordering certain bases and ordering certain systems that will solve them, that is to put their bases in use. I think the time has come, everybody sit down, let's do it one cheekly way because this is how it's going to result in everyone having their own system and not being compatible with each other. What do I mean? When the conservative bases are done, then they have to work in a system that's applied to the plans, so that we don't turn out to have conservative bases that will be in one system, plans in another system. This means ministries, colleagues from the ministry, sit down, negotiate and try to make proposals that we get in common and applicable to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93595	We are going to the fifth debate of the club of representatives, as well as the last debate, the club of representatives, the esteemed colleague of Stjepan Curaj, on behalf of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93596	I would like to thank the president, dear ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will certainly accept this proposal to amend and supplement the laws on the protection and preservation of cultural goods, of course a few things I would like to highlight and clarify a little more. First of all, what is good absolute and what we must immediately greet and in general, not only as far as this law is concerned, but the whole intensity that we need from the government, and this Parliament too, is the discharge of every administrative member of our businesses and citizens. And in this way, two provisions do it directly, first and foremost when we speak, and this is what the minister initially said that the process of obtaining the permission to do business, to protect and preserve cultural goods, or to extend the license to be abolished, which was once again every five years, which once again made certain assumptions about all the collection of possible papers, as we like to say. Of course, what I pointed out in the replica and the right of first purchase, which is amended in Article 37, that is, Article 5 of this Law, would only have one supplement or suggestion, if possible, and we will see if we can complete it with an amendment. As far as the first purchase rights are concerned, our fellow citizens who had certain apartments, which are some complexes or houses, areas that under protection, knew they had to obtain prior waivers from first purchases at the sale of those apartments, this is the 60-day deadline and the most frequent units of local self-government, if it's cities and counties, this is also the delivery within a certain period, but whether today the Ministry of State Property, before that, DUDDI,... Whatever you call it, at least according to my knowledge it never betrays that solution, but by the silence of the administration, the expiry of the deadline is deemed to be so silent... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , i.e. to be quietly approved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then, of course, when it comes to real estate traffic, it causes certain time-consequences and around the price, about the sale, if someone's in a hurry and can't wait, then give up buying, etc. And this is absolutely being welcomed by this, I just hope that this right will be exploited at the state level because there is actually the biggest part of the problem. However, in Article 5 relating to the annexes of Article 19, paragraph 19, that is to say, paragraph 4, the delivery of the solution referred to in paragraph 1 of this article is done by publication on the web pages, excuse me, I have now moved on to this next most important part of the topic, which is, as far as the article is concerned, in which I have asked the question, we are talking about the enrollment of the defined building of archaeological importance that is located beneath the surface of the earth. In fact, what is important is that it is even pointed out that the problem in the very introduction that what I have mentioned is that the consequence of applying the principle of property unity and what we are doing here is actually for buildings and buildings below the surface of the country we are establishing a special legal arrangement and now that means that the solution that is issued under Article 19 in paragraph 4 says that delivery of solutions is done by publication on the website of the Ministry of Culture. I'd like to supplement it here, if it can, for the parties in the procedure to be delivered by written means, why? Because immediately the following article says that delivery solutions will be considered to have expired on the eighth day since the day of publication. So some interested parties, whether they are local self-government units, owners, all those who are listed may be in a cadastre particle, of course no one may be watching, nor will they follow what is published on the web pages, and certain legal deadlines for legal medicines are under way for that solution. This would mean leaving Article 5, let the solution be considered to have been properly delivered, but to provide the obligation to also be written to those who are listed, who may be parties to the procedure, that in this way they are informed and written by means of any unit of local self-government, private owners, anyone who can obtain information from a public register if his involvability is on that particle, whether someone has a stock on some property, I don't know what it will be. If it's private property, so someone's raised a certain mortgage on that particle, on that property, and we're taking away a part of it that's protected by archaeological well-being. I don't know if there are any such examples at all, so I'd like, for some further reasons, to see, simply put this supplement on the table, in fact, to inform all parties that are in the process or which are listed by the particle in question, when it comes to building. So I think it's clear why because, of course, legal medicines have their own and... deadlines and subjective and objective and I think we'd meet all these deadlines here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What happens especially in practice, which I would like to draw attention to. We all know that property is binding. I have a situation where there are protected goods, whether industrial heritage or anything, are more or less whether because of war or some other things, and they are not owned by the units of local self-government and state, practically ruins and pose a danger to the citizens, for their environment, and they would actually not be protected should be the object of destruction. Of course, they can't be torn down, but the owner doesn't have the means to restore it in the way that the waist prescribes it. And we come to a stalemate where something is a danger, some measures are taken to protect, support, etc., that it really doesn't collapse, and on the other hand we oblige the owner not to do so, we commit him to remove, and by other law, that this law cannot destroy cultural good. And that's the part where we have to make that distinction a little clearer, in which part of the state comes and says this is if I say this is protected cultural good, then I take on myself a certain responsibility. Do we, apart from the first purchase right of a particular one, know that we also have certain legal tools regarding expropriation or expropriation, do we apply it here? If someone doesn't have the opportunity to take care of all the property in a way that legally needs to satisfy all the legal acts, then the state should come. I don't know if it's legally possible, but I'm sure you should think about it. Here, that's what happens in practice. I know for sure about certain buildings in the area of Vukovar, especially owned by Borova d.d. where they are devastated by war and literally pose a threat to collapse. Of course, the company doesn't have the means to rebuild it, and it can't crash as it should, let's just say it's not a protected cultural good. In conclusion, it is certain that this Law that improves is absolutely acceptable and that we will welcome it. The HNS Club will therefore accept, and here I pray through further discussion only an indication of the delivery of these solutions for the exemption of these archaeological goods,... the archaeological goods from the particle because, as I have mentioned, it really is the right and the right of uniqueness and of building and land that is a little questionable about such things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93597	Thank you. Now we move on to individual debates. First up, dear colleague Angelko Striker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93598	My colleagues and colleagues, Minister. As I have already pointed out, I absolutely support the amendments and additions of this Law for a number of reasons because it simplifies the way of obtaining permission to perform jobs on the protection and preservation of cultural goods, facilitates legal traffic of real estate, inventory books of public museums become part of the Register of Cultural Goods of the Republic of Croatia and does not need to be published in the National Journals. It simplifies the process of obtaining permission to perform tasks on the protection and preservation of cultural goods in such a way as to permit the issue of natural persons, the museum building acquires the status of cultural goods by enrolment in the inventory book of the public museum, etc. In the introduction, however, I referred you to the question of the original collection, primarily for the following reason. In fact, as head of the municipality, I started archaeological excavations still out there in 2001. From 2003 to 2018, they were essentially self-excavations, and two years before that they were tested. So, it's been 17 years since then, six governments, seven ministers and we've come to the finish line, and we're making a presentation project... A number of valuable findings were found from various prehistoric periods belonging to the Lassinian... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and the Vinkow culture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A lot of ceramic dishes, money, jugs, plates, pipe, simple embossed... Very interesting metal findings have been found, nails, locotines, keys, silver and bronze money, arrow for crossbows, desert balls, parts of swords, mammosis and, of course, it is especially important to mention the bronze rose of winds so far unmarked findings in these parts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, all these reasons are also the current municipal leadership literally unacceptable that all these finds after 17 years of effort and work end anywhere outside the area of the Municipality of Visko. But he didn't care. The municipality also founded one association... which every year at the 10th month, means every first Saturday of the 10th month, shows a resuscitated history in 1590. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This year, it's the 13th event in a row. Of course, I invite both the minister and her associates, all present here to visit us this year. Why am I saying all this? Because our country has the largest share of tourism GDP, 19.6%. The only measurable data related to tourism are the number of nights. The number of nights is 95.1% at sea, in Zagreb 2.5% and on the continent 2.4%. And now we see what is the possibility in this particular work and the biggest promoters of the homeland and therefore tourism are culture, natural beauty and sport, and therefore I think that this particular segment, especially when it comes to small towns, small environments because there are no municipalities that have no church, some archaeological locality or costumes to present and exploit themselves for tourist purposes, and thus also to encourage the development of the region. When we talk about the county area, in the area of the county when it comes to archaeology and I mean Varazdin County, when it comes to archaeology and archaeological findings, we have investigated, partially explored, and at all unexplored 87 sites and 121 sites because it is assumed to be an archaeological site. All 31 of them are protected, of 3 preventive, and if we consider that there are about 200 and only 30 of them are protected, the question is, how long will it take to explore all these sites. And now every seventh is protected. And when we talk about ethnic heritage, people and costumes, I must stress that everything is left to amateurs, enthusiasts, or cultural artists. So I welcome and reiterate these changes and additions, but I stress that the ministry needs to be more teamed up, I guarantee that you lack people on the ground. Today, the conservatory department in Varazdin has no ethnologist, and I think we should have one and at least three additional archaeologists would have to register this even if it existed. So here I welcome the ministry's efforts and I ask you to take care of it that certainly a far greater number of teams should be teamed up primarily because of tourism potentials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93599	I thank my esteemed colleague, Uncle. We have one replica, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93600	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I, too, will join you in your desire to and of course support you in your intention to promote the importance of taking care of and caring for cultural goods when it comes to less environments, and in this regard I will, in addition to supporting your intentions, point out that among other things and the Law on Museums that we had at the Assembly's debate some day, I would say a simplified way of resolving the question of establishing cultural goods status in the inventory book of the museum and also a simplified way of establishing museums as an institution in smaller environments to facilitate the possibility of preserving cultural goods in smaller environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93601	Mrs. Bedekovic, I'd like you to watch your time. Answer, fellow Striker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93602	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Bedeković, I absolutely agree with you, it is impossible to expect that in small areas there will be great industrial development, it has been too much for me, but these very small environments have to rely on what they have, and that is certainly natural beauty, culture, sports events, events, events, and certainly when we talk about culture, there are also sacral objects and cultural goods, ethnological heritage, folk costumes, customs, traditions. Well, here's my support for your debate, but also for the ministry's efforts, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93603	I thank my esteemed fellow uncle for his reply. We move on to the next debate, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Assistant Minister, I will begin by reminding myself, I don't think we have mentioned this so far that in 2018, among other things, it has been declared a European Year of Cultural Heritage and here it is, in 2018, and the opportunity and time for Croatia to again, so to consider raising standards for the protection of its cultural goods, because it is precisely on the knowledge of the value of its own cultural goods that is actually knowledge of its own cultural and national identity and, of course, it is all linked to the knowledge of the important place that Croatia has when it comes to national and cultural identity and our Croatian cultural and national heritage, it has among other countries that are members of the EU. And here, if we recall, the Minister noted in her opening statement that the first Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods after the establishment of an independent Republic of Croatia was adopted in 1999 in the meantime several novelties have passed, but we must also be aware that the time in which we live requires adaptation so different situations that we have in practice and therefore, at one general level, I welcome, of course, and support the simplification of the procedures of the different laws. And also what I find very important, reducing administrative pressures, and also bringing down certain specific problems to the level of regulations, precisely so that we can adapt to time and that we don't have to go every little bit into the amendments to the law. So in that sense, I believe that such an approach is much more operational. Among other things, this legislative proposal goes to emergency procedure and for this reason, among other things, what this law needs to be brought into line with the Law on Museums and the Law on Librarys and I kind of see it and I think it's a systematic, complete approach, so... We are going in parallel with several laws that we are passing within a very short period of time, just to solve each issue systematically and fully, as far as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to the Law on Museums, so first of all, the question of establishing a state of cultural goods for museum buildings, the Law on Museums is arranged in a different way, and according to this legislative proposal we are discussing today, the museum building acquires the status of cultural goods by enrolling in the inventory book of the public museum, not the foundation of the solution of the Ministry of Culture. With the inventory book part of the register, so if we no longer go to the issue of a solution from the Ministry of Culture we reduce, so let's go, cancel the publication in the national newspapers and allow the registration of cultural goods which will be kept as a public book, be publicly available on the Ministry's website. That's exactly where I see the simplification of procedures and the reduction of administration. As for the Law on Libraries, which we have here today and on the Assembly Committee, it will quickly come into the procedure, and I welcome, indeed, the establishment of a library as a cultural good by enrollment in the catalogue of libraries, especially when it comes to unique and rare copies of books that were created before 1850. Of course, what is more, as much time as it allows me, I find it necessary to point out, and already there have been words, I will just reiterate and point out once again, those provisions that resolve the legal status of buildings of archaeological significance, including mining and similar objects where they are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, for which no issue of governance and use has been resolved because of unresolved ownership relations, which is actually due to the application of the principle of property unity, in which case these buildings and objects are located beneath the surface of the country, and when the owner is not the Republic of Croatia. I believe that this legislative proposal will try to resolve ownership legal relations and settle the issue of ownership and governance at such facilities. As an example, the complex of Diocletian's Palace is highlighted, which is listed on the World Heritage List and for which the government of the Republic of Croatia concluded in the 8 months, if I am not mistaken this year. And not just, this was just one example. Let us remind ourselves that Croatia has quite a number of similar examples, especially when it comes to mines, similar facilities, such as the Labin mine in Istria and other similar examples. What I find particularly important, once again, to emphasise that ownership legal relations have been resolved, one of the conditions for nominating our cultural facilities to the European Funds, and I believe that these legal solutions will speed up some procedures and allow the registration of as many of our cultural goods to European funds as possible. Similarly, it was about the right of first purchase, so in particular Article 5, which amends Article 37 of the existing law. I also believe that in practice, it will significantly facilitate the legal traffic of real estate with cultural goods status and that those situations in which we own the Republic of Croatia, so some procedures will be accelerated, at least as far as giving up the right of the first purchase. And as much time as it allows me, regarding how to determine cultural goods, so I have already said, I think that the procedure will be simplified in a way that, based on the professional evaluation, the registration of cultural goods into the register, which reduces the procedure, so we don't go to a solution, is simplified. And what I think is particularly important, and it has already been said about it, so I'm just going to say for a moment, it's important to introduce a definition of the contact zone of cultural goods, so those cultural goods that are listed in the World Heritage List, that is, world-threatening heritage and that are protected by UNESCO. I believe that defining the essence of the definition of the contact zone is actually a protection measure and I would say preventing and determining protection measures in a way that clearly and in advance determines what is possible and which cannot be done in a space defined as a contact zone. And finally, as for the licensing of cultural goods, which so far had to be renewed every 5 years, which of course for entrepreneurs was a very complex and complicated procedure burdened with many administrative affairs, I believe that this is a legal solution that provides for a permanent licence but, on the other hand, prescribes the reasons why this license can be lifted, a much better way and a much better solution than the renewal of the same licence every 5 years and, of course, a much simpler solution for our entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93605	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Sanja Putica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93606	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed minister, esteemed assistant minister. Enough has been said so far about the amendments and additions to this law. You will allow me, in addition to these general or general consequences that will result from the adoption of this law, to be a little bit and subjective, and in particular to the consequences of this law concerning the city of Dubrovnik, which is actually one protected monumental unit on the UNESCO World Heritage List, and which is indeed expected to adopt amendments and additions to this law. The consequences that will generally result from the adoption of this law are, of course, the definition of the contact zones of cultural goods to be entered in the World Heritage List or in the World Heritage List and for that area, a way of protection to be installed in spatial plans will be established, thus ensuring the protection of the cultural goods themselves. Making a proposal for new ones, so-called The buffer or contact zones as we call them in this law are therefore particularly expressed in historical units such as the city of Dubrovnik. And we know how UNESCO itself at its session in June actually adopted a proposal from the Ministry of Culture on the adoption of these contact and buffer zones. However, the prerequisite for future action under this bill is, of course, the adoption of spatial plans at, I would say, a local or lower level. We ourselves know that spatial plans, primarily here I think of GUP, as the largest of them is actually one political document most often brought into town councils, of course and partly in the county congregations. And in my view, perhaps for certain spaces in the Republic of Croatia, it should, however, make it easier for local self-government to think about the possibility of adopting low-arranged plans, for example, a detailed plan to regulate certain zones, for example in the city of Dubrovnik, not in total, because we know that the adoption of a new spatial plan takes more than a year probably to process because the public debate itself takes 30 days, but the whole process of adopting a new plan takes longer. What should certainly be supported there is that investors and people who intend to invest in these surrounding areas will actually be able to process and facilitate them because from these spatial plans, they will be fully clear where the places where such investments can be made, where they are not. So it's going to be predetermined, so we're closing more space with any possible malversions. I also find it positive in this law to simplify bureaucratic procedures in the right first place. The fact that cities, municipalities and the state itself in one shortened procedure can give up the first purchase rights because you... The Ministry estimated that, as a rule, the local self-government unit and the state itself are very rarely in a situation to buy some real estate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, my question is when and where there are in certain budgets money or opportunity to buy whether you have considered a reverse mechanism to actually put this procedure in the opposite situation or that the city can easily, in this case the city of Dubrovnik come to a certain property. What counterpart Bedekovic also highlighted is important for further procedures for the application of our monuments and parts of cultural heritage to European funds, or the possibility of their more efficient and better renewal, of course there is also a question of ownership. And not to mention individual owners who can live in a certain building and real estate, apartments that bought for example 20, 30, 40 years ago, their apartment is at a certain archaeological site and so far have not had the easy opportunity to buy or sell or invest in it, if you will and energy-renovate it. And in that sense, of course, this law really makes it easier for all of our citizens who have such problems. When you look at the definition, just to briefly return to this contact or buffer zone, when you look at the very definition of buffer or contact zone, it is said that the intentions of its adoption are not only to prevent further devastation of space around protected cultural goods but certainly environmental pollution which is a very current topic of this time, the very protection of the inhabitants of a certain monumental unit. And here's my brief question to you, I certainly welcome the adoption of amendments and additions to this law. I say, especially for those cultural goods and those protected monuments that have been pretty undefined so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93607	Thank you, dear colleague Putica. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93608	Dear colleagues of Putica, on several occasions in your presentation you mentioned that from Dubrovnik, you mentioned Dubrovnik as one city with which to rise without mentioning an example of good practice, here is now an opportunity to correct yourself and it is about the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik. So one society that really is an example of good practice but not only in Croatian terms but in world and European. And it would have been very nice if it had dealt with exactly this kind of example in the context of this law, because if there is one example where one association of citizens on a volunteer base can take care of their heritage, their city, voluntaryally care in a proper and adequate way then it is just that Dubrovnik and the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93609	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. Answer, comrade Putica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93610	Here's an esteemed colleague of Zekanovic, I didn't mean to single out any words because not all cities, all monumental elements of happiness, have one such society that deals with continuous and professional restoration of monumental heritage. However, in Dubrovnik today we have several other foundations that really want to invest their money in the restoration of monumental units and, of course, it would be nice if in other parts of Croatia there were an association of citizens who are doing this kind of reconstruction because it is a big question of what would happen to Dubrovnik today with its monumental heritage especially with walls if there were no Friends Society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93611	I would like to thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Putica. Next replica, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93612	My colleagues Putica, I am pleased that in your presentation you mentioned Dubrovnik and I understand, of course, your subjective relationship with Dubrovnik because you come from this area and I am glad that you recognized among other things the legal provision of the arrangement, the determination of the contact zone of cultural goods listed on the list of world heritage Dubrovnik, in fact the entire city core is a monument of culture and I am glad that you recognized I would say and call the Institute of Contact Zones as a tool for preventing the devastification of the monumental unit, a tool that is also connected with the adoption of spatial plans and even the plans of a more detailed arrangement that you mention as a possible proposal, which I also respect exactly in order to regulate first of all the measures of protection, prevention and clearly predetermination that is not allowed in which contact zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93613	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93614	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues Putica, you mentioned on several occasions the right of this first purchase, which is regulated by this law in Article 37, and there are good examples of both Dubrovnik and Split, although this article will facilitate both legal and payment traffic related to the first purchase and real estate, but I think it is important to stress that it is important and only to plan purchases especially from cities and counties because it happens often on city councils and county assemblies that it is doing financial assets that are just giving up on the first purchases and in valuable areas such as Split and Dubrovnik definitely need planning, so that we provide pre-supervised funds and stay for valuable sites, for valuable properties that are in the area of our cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93615	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93616	Here is my colleague Bačić, of course, and alone as a councilwoman in the city of Dubrovnik, we made several decisions on whether to buy a certain property or not. I think that the city councils of the best or county parliaments can assess whether they have a certain property of importance or not, and as far as planning is concerned in the local unit budget itself, of course it is particularly necessary for Dubrovnik, because of the prices of the properties in our area. It is also worth pointing out that it seems to me two years ago, the Investment Encouragement Act was passed, and that law in some part has launched this real estate market today in the Republic of Croatia, so I hope, of course, that this law and the whole package of laws that came from the Ministry of Culture is just one positive sequel.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93617	I thank you for your response to my dear colleague, Putica. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Peja Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93618	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Madam Minister. Well, somehow, it was wrong for me to talk right behind my colleagues, because unlike her and Mr. Zekanovic, I don't have a very good opinion about this example you've had of, and they don't have any of my colleagues from the city of Dubrovnik with whom I've been preparing today's debate. So today we're discussing the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods. We are discussing some aspects of it, but it seems to me that we have gone beyond what is important all morning and that is the application of this law in practice, and for me, the law that remains a dead letter on paper is not the law at all, and that is why I want to talk about something that unlike my predecessors thinks, an example of bad practice, and that is how we care about one of the most important cultural goods in the Republic, so what we have heard earlier in the Dubrovnik Walls and basically about the carelessness of the state and the city of Dubrovnik for their protection. Namely, it is also necessary to mention in detail what it is about, Dubrovnik, and watch out for the association of citizens of the Association of Friends of the Dubrovnik antiquity, from 10 November 1998 to 14 December 2017, contracts on the maintenance and use of city walls and then three additions to the contract entrusted to the city of Dubrovnik by the management of city walls, I will repeat, protected by cultural well-being, the association of citizens of the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. The same legal transactions allow DPDS to collect tickets to the city walls, of course, if you trust someone to manage it, you will also trust them to make revenue, as soon as the DPDS is able to make a huge income. Should it be mentioned that the DPDS will increase tickets from 150 to 200 kn by next year and will increase revenue. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, and why I'm talking about it on this agenda point, because it's a good thing of national importance, which I suppose, at least as a lawyer, I think we should manage in accordance with the provisions of the Cultural Goods Protection Act, which is the law that we are discussing right now, right now, on this agenda point. And what specifically asked me to open up a debate about it? The fact that the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods which should be regulated by the way in which contracts between the city of Dubrovnik and the DPDS apply and which are not respected by these contracts that I have mentioned are not subject to amendment and addition. Which means the Ministry, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia means that these provisions should remain in force. In particular, Art. In 43 C.E., concessions are established as a way of gaining rights to the management of cultural goods, and art. 43.B. defines that the concession is given on the basis of the implemented, be careful now, the public gathering of bids. That's what the law says. The law was passed by the Croatian Parliament and the government of the Republic of Croatia does not propose to amend these provisions of the Law. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, in this case public gathering offers have not been made. Also, in these provisions that I mentioned earlier, it is prescribed that the concession is only given for a certain period of time, and, behold, it is not applied in the case of these contracts that I previously quoted. I'll do it again, not even an article. 43rd, nor art. 43.B. is not proposed as the subject of these changes. And one of the most important cultural goods is in the governance regime that does not respect these provisions of the Law. We can talk about this bill today, I've listened to so far the praise of colleagues who come from all the club representatives, whether from opposition or position. We can agree that what the Minister suggested today is good, but I ask you what it is, if we do not respect those provisions of the Law as we do not respect those we already have. I ask you why we try when in the case of the most valuable heritage the Republic of Croatia has, we are unable to ensure the implementation of the law. Why do we try when it comes to the most valuable heritage we have, we do not provide transparent management and management of cultural goods. I ask you why we allow the Association of Citizens to make such a profit instead of making sure that cultural goods are managed properly so that it remains our heirs in the same way that we received them from our ancestors. And now, I've listened here to boast that a citizen association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities, my colleagues and colleagues from Dubrovnik that I've had a chance to talk to are not so full of praise, but good. That's obviously the thing to look at. However, I will ask the question. If this is an ideal way of managing cultural goods, which is not good in the way of managing cultural goods, and Pula also has some very little, very important cultural goods that are done by the roads, for example the Archaeological Museum. Institutions that are under direct supervision of the Republic of Croatia, an institution that has an administrative council where control is carried out which submits its work reports, an institution that has employees of professionals who know how to take care of cultural goods and which from my perspective, I would say a little more transparent than the DPDS manages cultural goods located in the city of Pula. Your Honor, Madam Minister, I was talking about violations of the law that we are now discussing. It is not the only law that has been violated by a contract concluded between the city of Dubrovnik and the DPDS. He was injured, for example, by art. 391. The law of ownership, but it's not the subject of today's debate, so I will refrain from further elaborated. But I will still ask you one question that is really very simple and the answer to it is very simple, and that is whether you will ensure that perhaps the most valuable cultural goods that exist in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is the monumental whole of the city of Dubrovnik within which there are Dubrovnik walls, which is protected by UNESCO, is managed in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods, in particular in accordance with the provisions of Article 43a, 43b of that Law. Because if you don't, then all of what we've been doing so far, all of what we've been saying doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93619	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino, for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Sanja Putica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93620	Well, colleague Grbin, I'm glad that you're concerned about the preservation of Dubrovnik City's monumental heritage, but I'm sorry that you lost your authority in the SDP then because your councilors in the city of Dubrovnik just voted unanimously to sign a contract like this with the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik. Otherwise I have to introduce you to the fact that the relationship between the sharing of tickets to the city of Dubrovnik tickets is divided into 60:40. 60 belongs to the city of Dubrovnik, and 40 to the Association of Friends, which is all 40% of their income due and invests again in the restoration of the same walls and all other monuments that are assigned to them. Why is that? Because just over the years and years, decades of their existence have proved themselves to be a society of experts who are continuously free of volunteering and who in one most professional way manages the restoration of that monumental unit. When you talk about the Pula example, I'm glad that you...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93621	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. Answer, dear colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93622	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I saw that you consulted during the debate, but you obviously didn't consult enough, so you didn't answer the question I asked you. Why is it not secure or I've appointed him a minister, but you've decided to answer that. Why is it not ensured that this contract is concluded in accordance with the provisions of the Cultural Goods Protection Act? If the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities is best for the management of the walls, then there would be no problem if it were in accordance with Article. 43.a. A law on the protection of cultural goods has been implemented by the public collection process. Well, then let them show they're the best because otherwise I don't see what the point is, I don't see what the point is to make laws. I don't see the point in discussing this at all if what we've brought and what's in force we won't respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93623	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, the coat of honor. Next replica, esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93624	Dear colleague Grbin, I agree with you if there is a legal discrepancy, that this should be respected. However, here I have not heard a word from you in your presentation that you have commended the work of society. And I think everyone who comes to Dubrovnik, sees what's happening to Dubrovnik today, is very proud of that society, enthusiasm, patriotism, patriotism... who have since 1952 since Lukša Beritić, if I am not mistaken, volunteering without compensation, are renewing their city. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I'll agree with you in that part, if the legislation is not harmonised, that it needs to be harmonised, definitely and there you're right, however, and in making legal proposals and in this law, it should be kept in mind, that this example of a good bang should be supported, nurtured, preserved, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93625	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic, for the reply, my colleague, Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93626	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Zekanovic, it is very simple, the law prescribed something, we simply did not respect it, and of course it raises the question of what is behind such money. A few days ago, the Dubrovnik Wall, they recorded, if I'm not mistaken for the millionth visitor. The price of the ticket was 150 kn in this year, in the next year it increased to 200 kn. You can see if we have a million visitors at a price of 150 or 200 kn of what the amount is. And then if the law says, and it says, that public good, it's not only the Cultural Goods Act, but also the Property Act, it's managed in one way, and it's not implemented, you can see why it opens up questions and you understand why I have to ask these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93627	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93628	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Grbin, I think it is very important and important that you pointed out that historic units in the city of Dubrovnik must be treated as national good, because they are national good, and not to regulate their governance, regulated locally with local associations of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93629	Thank you for your response, Comrade Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93630	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic, so this is a very simple matter. The law is passed in order to respect it, the law has laid down a certain way of transparent management of public goods, which is also culturally good, the highest level of protection that the Republic of Croatia and international institutions have. So this is about protection from UNESCO. If we have prescribed for this particular treatment, if we have prescribed, a public collection of offers, if we have prescribed it by another law, that it is available in a public tender, then we must implement it. Or if the ministry considers that this should be changed, then it is up to the ministry, to refer to the procedure of the law, and to say, in the light of the law, why, for the sake of this meaning, should the provisions of the law under Article not apply. 43a, 43b. Art. 391. The law of ownership... But they didn't do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93631	I would like to thank you for your response, dear colleague Paddy Grbino, on behalf of the Government, honoring Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93632	Mr. Vice President, so here, since a direct question has been asked, I have asked for a word. Everything this government does and everything the Ministry of Culture does, works in accordance with the law and your completely unfounded insinuations, so that we break the law, I ask you, if you think we're breaking the law, please report it. Like any citizen, so does a parliamentary representative. What you said, and you said to your colleagues and colleagues from Dubrovnik, I was warned, there was an object, a public debate, during the mandate of the government that you supported, your government, so in this House, you went on your way to reduce not this law, but another law, a law that speaks specifically of the Dubrovnik area, based on what your colleagues and colleagues, I guess who have now informed you and then informed you, so as this law is finished, has fallen to the Constitutional Court. We will have to go to the amendments and additions of that law, in order to correct what the Constitutional Court has brought down, based on these very messages, which you have delivered today, your colleagues and colleagues from Dubrovnik. If there's anything illegal, I'll be the first one to warn me about it, to sanction it, in this case, with regard to the law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods, it's not broken. You know that they were then filed a series of applications to those in charge. If they've processed them, they haven't, when they will. If you have some new knowledge and you can, but I don't think it's right, to tell us, here in the debate on the law and the protection of cultural goods, that the Ministry of Culture is not acting in accordance with the law. Finally, what I have to point out, an example of governance, as is present in Dubrovnik, is something that is a good example of practice, which has also been recognised by international organisations, which is also mentioned in certain reports of UNESCO, mentioned in the revision document, which follows the development of strategic guidelines, related to the conclusions of the UNESCO Committee, is mentioned in addition to the strategy for the protection and preservation of cultural goods, which is in force in 2011, I know that the representative Zekanovic might have mentioned it, because also in Sibenik, there is one extremely valuable civil initiative, which has actually been included in the renewal and I know that they are considering, that by some random model, they might have participated in the preservation of cultural heritage in the city of Šibenik and I think that when we have examples of good practice, we must then think about how these examples of good practice under our laws and regulations are preserved, and not really, on the basis of which you say to colleagues of the law and to the colleagues are not the colleagues of Dubrovnik, and to the colleagues, and to the colleagues of the colleagues, who are not the colleagues from Dubrovnik. So, during my two years in office, I have not received any warning from my colleagues and colleagues from Dubrovnik, nor from anyone else, that anyone, either at the Ministry of Culture, or in the city of Dubrovnik, would be in the company of friends, of Dubrovnik's antiquities in violation of the law, and I repeat, what you have brought forth, has prompted amendments to any other law, which, as you well know, the provisions of that law have been abolished by the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93633	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Nina Ouglien Koržinek, for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Peja Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93634	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, as I believe you know, the ministries are as the central authorities of the state administration, tasked with overseeing the work of the local self-government unit in their area of the detour. So now, as a parliamentary representative and as a citizen, I give you one warning, I would like to draw your attention, that the contract on the maintenance and use of city walls and the addition to that contract, which is from '98. by December 2017 concluded against the provisions of the Cultural Goods Protection Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 43a. and 43b. which refers to the concession and the way in which that concession is granted. So I urge you to examine, within your jurisdiction, whether it is true, and if it is true, to take measures to comply with the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93635	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino, the answer, the Honorable Minister Mrs. Obulen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93636	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I thank you, I have taken note of your thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93637	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Next debate, esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93638	Dear Vice President, dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad that fellow Peja got involved with this subject, I'm going to get a little bit attached, so I'm going to talk about what was my original idea. When we talk about the society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity, I said and I will repeat, it is a very nice example of good practice, which the minister pointed out, that even from abroad, they view this example of cultural heritage management as a good example to be cherished. So from 1952 to today, that society is functioning on a voluntary basis, and we have to cultivate it. I'll agree with you for the second time, if there is any legal discrepancies, it should be done, with us here, this House is to pass laws. Dear Minister, when my colleague Grbin, who I truly disagree with is almost nothing, but this time I have to tell him, he's really right. If there's a discrepancy, and according to your replication, or conversation, I see he's right, let's work it out. And don't, I even have to defend him, you say insinuations, for him, it's not about insinuations, he warned you now, and you don't need to write anymore. This session is public, transparent, recorded, he warned you of a problem, let's help the society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities, to continue doing what they're doing. I am not to go 60% to the city of Dubrovnik, I would like to keep everything company, that society, as it has managed for decades fortifications of the city of Sibenik, pardon Dubrovnik, continue. My tongue flew, thank you for remembering my Sibenik, and there are associations in Sibenik, an association that is trying to copy that one model of good practice. The Dubrovnik model, unfortunately, is always kind of hard to copy best, but it is that indication that Juraj Dalmatinac, a society of preservation of the Sibenik heritage, is trying to move. So, let's make it right, coordinate, help society. I'd get attached further. When we talk about here, you say report it. I'm the correct minister recently reported something to you, through the media, and you've answered me to lie. I'll tell you in person here, like this, it's not in four eyes, but I'll see you again, and I'm not insinuating one thing, but I'll tell you now, I've got plenty of time, I'll tell you, tangible evidence, for one failure, where you called me through the media a liar and you said that I'm not telling the truth. And I really try to tell the truth in my life, if I miss something, it wasn't intention, it was an accident. So, the Ministry of Culture financed through its programme, culture, I stress, funded a festival, and the festival abused money, in a way that the festival held the signing of the political declaration of parties, related colleagues on my right by Grbino and Jovanovic, meaning the Socialist Workers' Party, the workers' fronts, the new left, if I am not wronged by Orah and Labourist, if I put someone extra on it, don't mind me. You've been warned about that, here, twice I'm warning you, so I got a reaction that that's not true. So the money that you gave to the organizers of the Falish festival was spent on purpose, to promote political parties, to organise a political platform, which is not allowed. Unfortunately, it is not just you, who financed it with your money, or our money, but also the Ministry of Environmental Protection, through the Krka National Park, and also the town of Sibenik, as well as the tourist community of the city of Sibenik, which is not acceptable, is not allowed. I'm warning you now, I won't write you any more, but I'm telling you Minister, solve this problem. This is a big problem that you ignore and not insinuated, but these are facts that are what they are. And now I'd actually go back a little bit to what was the cause of my exposure. I told you at the beginning in the replica of your exposure. Unfortunately, regardless of the Law, which is not bad in principle, we have many failures. You with your exposure mentioned one concept of interpolation. And interpolation allows every conservative in any department of the Ministry of Culture, anywhere in the Republic of Croatia to interpolate whatever it wants or that if it doesn't care, if it's sloppy or malicious to devastate cultural heritage. There are no clear rules. And today we can interpolate, I'm talking primarily about my Sibenik, anything, anywhere. We have 100 examples in my Sibenik so-called. The interpolation that the conservatives have blessed, and in fact, it's about the devastation of the historical cultural heritage of my city, my Sibenik. And I'll repeat, check, not insinuate, but I've been in correspondence with your Ministry. I have warned of the inadmissible annexes of addition, you will say interpolations, which have passed with your blessing, the blessing of your ministry. That's right. I also mentioned a banal example in a short replica of minutes, and I can't say everything. And the example and the ice cream sold on the cathedral of St. Jacob's, UNESCO's monument. You said it was a problem who? Communal directors. Well, I think your conservators who eat ice cream and eat ice cream every day must be the first to report it to the communal directors because a monument that's protected by UNESCO is being damaged, not ignored. We have a situation that, I will specifically, we're talking about the protection of cultural goods, where we have, it's real Disneyland. Since houses in the historic city centre are already facadeed, they do not façade in the way it is original, limed shrubs on the spoon. I don't know if that's your area. I know it's not, you're coming from the music field. But here, ask your colleagues who are professional in that field. So, concrete shrubs glareed with glaciers with red, green, orange, pitch paint, that's not what's original in the town of Sibenik. It is an unacceptable devastation of the historic city centre of Sibenik. On several houses in Sibenik, your conservators allowed Styrofoam facades on the original stone facades. In the historic town centre of Sibenik. You're talking about the buffer zone. In the buffer zone of the old historic town center of Sibenik we also had a cinema of Tesla over a century old, secession building. It wasn't preemptively protected. Why didn't I know, you must know. It's down today. A parking lot was built in her place. No one from the Ministry said a word. Unfortunately, there is not enough time to warn you with all possible devastation, carelessness and sloppyness of your ministry in my town of Sibenik. From garden dwarfs to cathedrals, to interpolation of concrete monsters in the historic city center, I'll already ask you like this. What would you do if someone in the historic city center of Dubrovnik painted the house in a pitch color and placed a Styrofoam on it with the permission of the Ministry of Culture? Or lift another floor of new construction? To deny the existence of the fifth façade, that the noises that are only a decade old are declared original, while neglecting the beautiful neat stone style below. That justice has its behaviour with expensive costs or high investment costs in the historical city core or in some real estate. I wouldn't be in your shoes because there's a lot of work ahead of you. But I'll tell you, regardless of some things we disagree on like this... What's the matter? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is where I invite you, appeal, be a little harder. I want you to solve this problem. This isn't just my Sibenik, this is the problem of all the cities on the Adriatic, Mediterranean coast in our homeland. Solve it because unfortunately, great investment due to tourism threatens what is most valuable to us, our heritage, our heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93639	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. And the name of the government, the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Nina Obulen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93640	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Zekanovic, if I may answer only briefly one part of your debate, and then in the final word united to this other part where you specifically spoke about the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods and its application, and here I would only briefly reply with an advance apology if it is outside the procedure, but you also spoke of something that is not part of the debate on this Law, so I would instruct you to, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, the Ministry of Culture discusses competitions, determines and allocates funds. In accordance with this Law, criteria and cultural councils are adopted, in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. Thus, the Cultural Council for New Media Cultures supported a festival held in the city of Sibenik all according to the Law and in accordance with the rules and these festival organizers will, after completion and in accordance with the legally established and contracted deadline, submit a report from which we will see if the funds have been used for what they have reported, so for the activities of their festival. If someone, during any festival, invited some of their fellow friends, associates, political alike and used the platform of that festival to send some political messages, I never said you were lying because I don't use the word, then I just warned that it wasn't the same as if we were funding it, the gathering we funded, and you know it very well. So the Ministry of Culture has funded a festival and in a country where there is freedom of gathering, it cannot prevent or ban anyone from sending and sending any messages to that festival and what is not true, it is not true that such gathering and these messages and that activity has been financed by the Ministry of Culture, you know that, and I know that, so here in public too much is said also about some protests and how people will be where and how they are free to gather and it is not something that regulates any law that is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture, so my comment was on that, and thank you for these other comments regarding the law, I will give a final statement to give a review of the activities of the Ministry of Culture which is just going to solve some unsettled actions and unequal treatment of the conservation service.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93641	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for this debate. We're moving on, colleague Zekanovic, you've already used three replicas. ... You used three replicas and unfortunately I can't give you my word, you used three replicas. [[You can't hear me.]] We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've already said on behalf of the club that the SDP club supports this law, I have several objections that have come to me from the field, so I want to draw attention to them. So, as with this law and in some other cases, it would be good to try to bring the law into line and avoid urgent procedures, so we could also adopt the Law on Museums and this law at the same time, often happening, perhaps in planning the adoption of legal proposals to take care of it. In Article 1 and Article 5, one of the remarks that came from the field concerns terminology formulations, it is stated that in the proposal of the law we find a new term of building of archaeological importance that is not in line with the existing archaeological professional terminology in which there are terms archaeological sites, archaeological sites, archaeological layers and structures, strategic units, etc. While the notion of an archaeological concept can thus introduce legal uncertainty because using inadequate terminology in the law will open up space with different interpretations and thus also valorisation of archaeological sites. Second, as pointed out in Article 2 of the proposal to set the limits of the cultural landscape, instead of the current determination by the regulation of the cadastral particle, it is understandable and logical, however, the descriptive definition of the boundaries of cultural landscapes, waterways, roads, railways, etc. opens the possibility of legal uncertainty as the position of the water flow in the process of arrangement can be changed as well as other forms of infrastructure, and therefore the future may happen that the limit of the cultural landscape is moving over time which is not acceptable. And in Article 4, which we also commended, among other things, about registering cultural goods for the Republic of Croatia and erasing recorded data related to the National Journal. It is pointed out that some objects are not equally listed in the National Journal as an example of mobile goods that are not in the publicly available register, so the question is how will this be solved, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93643	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93644	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, dear assistant. Here's how we've seen in these last few individual discussions, we've set off in a local tone so I'll continue, mentioning everyone about my environment, from Sibenik, Dubrovnik, all our places beautiful and cities where there are many cultural goods so I'll go in tone and mention only Split and what is being dealt with by this law about the Diocletian palace and Diocletian's basements. I think that these amendments to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods not only solve Split's problems in the last 30 years but I think that as far as the management and preservation of Diocletian's basements are concerned, it is the aspirations of the city's fathers and citizens of Split, as well as of Don Frana Bulic, our father of Croatian archeology since 1903. But here we are about the aspirations of both this ministry and you ministers, but also new city administrations headed by Mayor Andro Krstulovic Opa, I think we are this law. This proposal has led to some solutions that will greatly help to protect our cultural goods, especially important archaeological sites. It is important to remind that prior to the adoption of these amendments, and I am glad that it has started in that tone since the last local elections, so a year ago, the new city administration in Split was caught up in the face of this problem, we know that Diocletian's palace and Diocletian's basements are very important and that the core itself of Split and that they are very important in the very preservation of but of course and potential exploitation and as a cultural good but of course also in improving the very tourist offer of the city of Split so that the city of Split itself started to create a single bill that you have received and that is the Law on ownership, conservation, restoration and management of the cellars of Diocletian's palace, as in Split this law popularly called lex Diocletianis, so we will accept that we also accept that this law on the basis, so we will probably call it in the future. I am pleased that my individual debate is the last before the Minister's final address, because the Minister and in the opening presentation began on Diocletian's basements, so I hope that in the final address, it will look back on how good it will bring for the city of Split. We know that the meeting of the government in Split was on 4 May 2018 and I will not read the whole decision from the session itself, but I will only read the first sentence that says: In order to resolve the issues of ownership, preservation, renovation and management of the cellars of Diocletian's palace, the city of Split needs professional assistance regarding the resolution of ownership legal relations. I think that's when the prime minister hired the minister of culture, but also the minister of justice to deal with this. And we see a few months, four, five months later, we have this bill that meets the need to resolve this issue. As for the lex declecianas himself who had certain provisions interesting, I'll tax them here, but I think they're embedded in a couple... In particular, Article 6 and Article 19 of this Act, and where Split is ready to definitely assume the rights and obligations relating to Diocletian’s basements, which is also stated in that document, which is to ensure human, professional and financial capacity, the creation of project technical documentation, the production and management of projects and investment plans, the implementation of procedures with the aim of research, conservation and restoration of the cellar of Diocletian’s palace, the design, the management of visitors’ content, the payment of tickets, the promotion itself, the promotion, the support of international cooperation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means all possible obligations that can arise from the management of such great and significant cultural goods. But if we're going to go back a little bit in history, if we're going to go back in the last 30 years, not to mention in 1903, I'm going to give a tax-based couple of examples that Split as a city encountered in solving this problem, when solving exactly the legal relationship of ownership, but also the way of managing Diocletian's palace itself. The Diocletian basements themselves, in fact legally, when they were looked at, in fact, not in the full sense, the real basements themselves because they are located above the ground and in the catastrus and land books of Diocletian's palace, there are only cadastrian particles and certain property deposits located above them, and they are in private ownership. The city of Split tried in a number of ways before this law to resolve property legal relations, and unfortunately the landowner always refused the same. What problems are being solved precisely in these changes and what is most significant is that they are the owners of the property above the basement that are entitled to the basements or in their own care or not maintaining their property endanger exactly what is most valuable and what this law definitely needs to protect. By amending the law, what I have mentioned, in particular Articles 19a, 19b, which are definitely the only remaining variant that this invaluable resource currently entered in a particular legal vacuum in land books and that the Republic and the city of Split in the near future receive the possibility of a significant investment through EU funds, but research into major works of basements that remain definitely unexplored. As regards the very preservation and presentation of the monumental unit for which the proposed amendments to the law are first passed, the legal framework will ensure the insurance of its original, urban, monumental, artistic and aesthetic values and, accordingly, the constructive and dedicated training of buildings for the permanent use and management of the cellars of Diocletian's palace. The current situation is definitely undefined and unsettled, it cannot offer the city any quality management of all the values and cultural goods that Diocletian basements offer. I must point out that they are largely unexplored, that all this is holding back exactly property legal relations, we will not, we do not have to mention that as soon as you have no proper property legal relations, that it is impossible to use any of the EU funds that in this work would be very helpful to ensure that such sites are definitely offices and that they are used for both tourism and cultural purposes, as well as to prevent us and the effective implementation of the Convention on the Protection of World, Cultural and Natural Heritage and the operational guidelines from the Ministry and the EU themselves. Finally, great commendations to the Minister for hard work and to all the co-workers who have worked on this bill. This is an excellent example of where it can be qualityd by the authorities themselves when you see the need at local level through the ministries, the government, listens, it's getting rid of exactly this kind of legal proposal in a short time, noting the government's session was in May this year, we are now at the end of September, and this is an emergency procedure in the Parliament, so it's exactly how it's going to be solved. Congratulations definitely to the city of Split on perseverance, especially Mayor Opari, to whom this is extremely important and who was constantly in communication with the minister, the conversation to resolve this topic as soon as possible. And I don't think there's any better congratulations, but gifts to the citizens of Split because we know that Diocletian's palace has been on UNESCO's World Heritage list for 40 years now, the anniversary of that very inclusion is next year, so this is definitely an excellent gift that we're going to celebrate next year and in the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93645	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ante Bacic. We have a final word on behalf of the Government, a respected minister, respected Mrs Nina Obulen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93646	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored MPs and MPs. At the beginning of this final presentation, I'd like to thank all the clubs for their support. I am pleased to recognize the government's efforts to prepare these changes and supplements that may not be as large in scope but as you have pointed out in many parts bring and serious discharges and reduce procedures and will certainly improve the management and protection of cultural heritage. I would briefly refer to some of the issues raised in the debate either through club presentations or individual debates, so that these issues do not remain unanswered. With regard to the presentations of my colleague Cikotic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, I must answer the argument that the Republic of Croatia has some problems in communicating with UNESCO, I do not think that this claim stands, at least as far as the mandate of this Government is concerned, we have entered a very active dialogue and all that has been observed before, in particular the situation relating to the protected core of Dubrovnik, the historical core of Split, that is, the Diocletian palace and the question of Plitvice National Park. We have accelerated the production of all documents that the Republic of Croatia has committed to bring, we are in constant communication. I think we now have one quality communication and that is a prerequisite to actually remove any doubts about non-compliance with the provisions of the Convention. As for the deadlines for the regulations, as I was saying at the outset, a rule relating to licences has actually passed a public debate and will be adopted very quickly. It's for the second rule, I think it's an adequate six-month period. He has to go through a public debate and it's very important to be adopted and the Library Act so that we can adopt it through one package. As regards the presentation of MP Mrak Taritas on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, of course, and as former minister, she correctly noticed what points we wanted to place a special emphasis on, the issue of the land and underground catastra, the border of the cultural landscape, the issue of licenses. And as for the spatial plans, I don't think I should leave the assembly without making a more comprehensive reference. I don't think the conservatory service is sinless or that there have been any wrongs. And on the part of the Ministry of Culture in the past years, not enough has been done to prepare, in particular, the part of the conservative bases and the production of conservative bases, everything that is crucial to bring adequate spatial planning documentation. I must point out that the capacities of our conservation service are quite limited, they may have been sufficient for some time before the increased number of investments, before the opening of a large number of EU-funded projects, and should certainly mention that the conservation service is largely burdened and the whole legalisation process that all happiness is now coming to an end. However, beyond what we do through the amendment of the normative framework, we have made significant efforts to respond to those remarks that often come from different parts of Croatia, which are the unequal actions of the conservative service. In that sense, I must say that we have formed expert groups that prepare united guidelines relating to those most neurolgic points to which conservatory departments must and conservatives must react. I'll repeat here it's a question of permitting new construction in protected units, which has been referred to by a large number of MPs today. The 5th façades are mentioned, therefore, the issue of energy restoration, so the positioning of the conservation profession according to the opportunities offered by today's technologies. And here we are thinking that a large number of public buildings, schools, kindergartens, hospitals operate in buildings that are within protected units and many are protected as individual cultural goods, that we have to make certain steps and that are done by a number of European states in terms of setting standards that conservatives can set limits that will protect the monument but allow energy restoration. We are in negotiations with a number of Croatian cities in Poreč, Zadar, Opatija, Rijeka, Mali Lošinj, Pula, Kutina, Oprtalj, Imotski, which we plan to build conservation bases next year, and this in cooperation means the forces that exist in these cities and conservatory departments. There were several comments here regarding the availability of data from our register and in the presentation of clubs as well as in individual discussions. That's where I have to say that we're finishing up making a new base... So it is our central register and this project is done in a way that will be connected to all other electronic registers that are carried out in the Republic of Croatia in the first order here I mean the cadastre and we will actually create one, create a prerequisite that much faster can come to all the data needed to make conservation guidelines and then design itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was a matter of law, a matter of first purchase, and I must say that we may even consider answering a government amendment by Friday to vote on these remarks and the good proposals that have been tabled in the debate. And my colleague Bulj, but I think one of the other MPs asked the question of destruction when it came to cultural goods. Representative Mrak-Taritaš referred us to the harmonisation of the Law that regulates the issue of construction regulations and our regulations. There may indeed be a small discrepancy and one, I would say perhaps a conservative approach to conservatives who safeguard cultural well-being even when it has lost culturally well-being which has protected it, and through these guidelines that I have cited at the level of the Ministry of Culture, we will give more precise instructions on how to deal with such situations. I don't think what one of the MPs suggested would be going through extradition, that it would be the right way, because we have to tell the state here openly as the owner, but also local self-government units unfortunately have a lot of cultural goods that they can't adequately maintain, which is why I can't put into office. A few more questions were related to specific actions in certain cities. Mr. Zekanovic is gone now. I repeat the question of ice cream, tends and all other events in historical units that visually disrupt the monument, but do not endanger the properties of cultural goods are not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture. However, for all these other issues, interpolation, fifth façade, energy recovery, etc. We will go through guidelines to our conservatives who, I must say, will be public to be able to control the cities, I think, in a very short time, put them in a position to coordinate these actions and make our actions much more transparent. Mr. Representative Jovanovic asked the question of terminology in the case of buildings of archaeological significance. Indeed, it is a new termology, but it is precisely why we are introducing it by this Law because it was necessary to harmonize the terminology with the one that is valid in the cataster in order for it to be entered. Also, the question of the cultural landscape border was raised, I guess, in case the rivers changed course or something. However, first of all, this does not happen on a daily basis, and secondly, when such situations happen, then we are obliged to coordinate in our register the boundaries of cultural goods, or in this case the boundaries of the cultural landscape. The third question was the availability of data on inventory books for mobile cultural goods. I would return to the debate we had under the Museum Act. It will now be within the law on libraries and this Law precisely because at this point neither the museum registers nor the registers of movable cultural goods managed by the Ministry of Culture are publicly available, and they require a lot of administrative effort to register, we have proposed a simpler methodology, and then through the regulations on museum documentation and through this regulation that we adopt in accordance with this Act such categorization that one part of what is registered cultural good is publicly available, which will all be possible through the completion of this project that I mentioned to the ISKB. There was another question related to the delivery of a solution in the case of the book of archaeological buildings, since ex-lege is an archaeological heritage owned by the Republic of Croatia and that so far no one who is at zero, one, two, three above the country has been able to register on e.g. A basement or an ideal part of a mine or something that's already underground. I don't think there's any need, here in the case of Split that would mean thousands, literally thousands of notifications to all co-owners who have not yet, so nothing in their land-book status of their properties is changing. This decision only regulates the status of what has actually been so far, if we can say so to anyone. And the last thing I wanted to answer was what I wanted to answer, which is a question that my colleague Stier has asked through the form of a replica, a question of financial effects. I think it's very difficult or we haven't been able to get into this type of analysis either, because this isn't about direct financial effects in the sense that we will be able to see how much we can contribute to any of our citizens, any economy, but it's very easy to assess how indirect the cost-reduction effect will be from the current extremely extensive procedures. This applies, therefore, to the issue of resolving the investor issue which, in cases involving the cultural landscape, will now be able to resolve the issue of protection only for the part for which protection is actually declared, and the rest can be excluded. A question that may be minor, published in the National Journal, however, is not and this represents a certain cost. Pressure on administrative capacities will be reduced both the Ministry of Culture and local authorities related to the issue of permits. The big discharge will be for entrepreneurs who are allowed to work on cultural goods and how we call it licenses because they won't have to go through these really complex procedures every 4 years, collect all that documentation, and then if we fail to process it all in time, they are now in a situation that they may have to miss out on some contests that they might have reported. What we expect is a direct financial effect positive, it is certainly in the case of Diocletian basements because we know that for a number of years now there is an intensity to prepare the entire project of reconstruction, that it is applied, I am sure that it is one project that can run as a strategic project for European funds, in addition, through the regime of giving that space into legal use will be able to begin to realize the walks that will then, we certainly invest in other cultural goods. Finally, I thank you once again for all the suggestions and, as I said in view of these issues raised in the first round, we will consult in the government, and there may be a possibility that on Friday with one government amendment if we can adequately prepare it, we will respond to these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93647	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister, Nina Oblisen Koržinek, for this final word. We've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Minister of Culture, Mrs. Nina Ouljen Koržinek, for the reasons of the final bill and for the answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Before we move to the next item of the agenda, I warmly welcome on behalf of all parliamentary representatives and representatives of students and students of the School of Economics from Buje and students and students of the Faculty of Law and the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing and their professors and teachers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93648	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 415. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure on such an amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on the proposal to hold a debate on the amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 99 votes for and 17 abstentions have been decided to hold a debate on the amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to explain the amendment submitted, the esteemed State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Kresimir Partl, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93649	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs, Art. 6. is changed and read as follows: The owner, who intends to sell culturally well protected by a special solution or cultural good within a protected cultural and historical unit listed in the World Heritage List or list of endangered world heritage, is obliged to offer it simultaneously before sale to the Republic of Croatia, the County, the City of Zagreb, the City or the municipalities in whose territory this cultural heritage is located, citing the price and other conditions of sale. In accordance with paragraph 5, paragraph 6 is added: first-bought powers authorities referred to in Article 1 of this Article may decide that, during a specified period of time or for certain cultural goods, no first-time rights will be applied. This decision shall be published at the network stations of the authorising officer. As already in the previous debate on amendments and amendments to the law, it is said that it is essentially facilitated by the legal traffic of real estate so that units of local self-government can waive first purchase rights, yet this amendment considers that in the cultural historical aspects that are on the UNESCO list... should be consumed where there are real needs and in the light of the management plans of UNESCO's sites that should be adopted within a certain time limit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93650	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. All I can do is clubs if there are any interested. If there isn't, then I'm closing the debate and voting on the amendment to the government, please let's vote. I find that most of the votes have been accepted by the government's amendment, 101 for, 20 abstentions, and it becomes an integral part of the final bill. We are now moving to a decision on the amendments tabled by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. Please, once again, Secretary of State Kresimir Partle to be shown about the amendments submitted, the first amendment is that of the Legislative Committee, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93651	The amendment of the Legislative Committee shall be adopted. It's about nomotechnical improvement in text.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93652	It becomes an integral part of the law. Then I'm asking you now to also read about the amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93653	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment aims to shorten the time limit for the adoption of three regulations by 6 months. 2 months. As we have already explained in the debate on the Regulation on the issue of permits to perform works on cultural goods, already as such, a public debate has passed, the consent of the Ministry of Economy is checked and will be brought as soon as possible. As regards the regulation on the system of measures for the protection of cultural goods, it is as such very complex because it is also about compliance with specific planning documents in units of local self-government, it is necessary to form a working group, it is necessary to consult all stakeholders but we believe that it will also be adopted within a very short time period and regarding the rule on governance and register, as we have explained, the law is in line with the Law on Librarys and the Law on Museums. The library law will be in the first reading in the Assembly, after its adoption this rule will be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93654	Thank you. Who's going on behalf of the Most? Here you go, colleague Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93655	Dear colleagues and colleagues, UNESCO's protection means a lot of good for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia and also for tourism. We have Diocletian palaces in Split which are the pearl of world architecture, which are not covered by contact zones. So we don't have any contact zones that are predicted through this law. The MOST of Independent Lists supports the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, we believe it is correct but what is startling, what you deny yourself, you through this law, we bring it by emergency procedure and then we leave the sublaws for 180 days. So you're also talking here about the Law on Librarys and Museums, yes, it needs to be harmonised, but then why is this law going according to emergency procedures while these other two go according to normal procedures, means first and second reading? So MOST of Independent Lists disagrees with you, we believe that it was necessary to start a public debate on contact zones and this rule because, of course, the moment we pass this law and when you pass the rule, it is only then that everything goes towards the units of local self-government, which means that Diocletian's palace, this valuable world pearl of architecture, will not be protected from saying and assessing for over 2 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93656	Thank you. Then let us approach the vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so we are now going to vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods, please vote. I find that with 103 votes for, 14 abstentions and 3 votes against the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93657	We move on to the following debate: - Proposal for a Law on Protection against Light pollution, first reading, P.Z. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the responsible Committee on Law and the competent Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. I ask the representative of the motionor, State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Energy of the respected Mr. Mila Horvat to give us an additional explanation of the bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93658	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and distinguished MPs. The proposal for a law on protection against light pollution is before us here, I will try now to go through the basic principles and reasons for the adoption of this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Environmental Protection Act is prescribed for light pollution as a change in the level of natural light in night conditions caused by the introduction of light is produced by human action and that is the basic definition on which this law rests. The problem of light pollution is present globally, and so is with us in the Republic of Croatia. The issue of legal regulation of light pollution has been resolved in certain provinces in Italy and Slovenia through a legislative framework, while the rest of Europe mainly applies harmonised standards, standards and recommendations on the implementation of external and public lighting. With regard to light pollution, there is no directive in EU legislation or any other directive which precisely determines protection against light pollution and will help to protect the environment from light pollution, which will put the Republic of Croatia at the top of the EU which has the necessary environmental protection measures against light pollution. I would now go through the basic provisions of this law. The aim of the law is to protect against light pollution caused by the emissions of light into the environment from artificial sources of light exposed to humans, the plant and animal world in air and water, natural goods as well as night in the sky, using more energy-efficient lighting. They are defined in the law of the emission of light to the environment to which the provisions of the law do not apply, this is defined in Article 3 of this Act, because of their specificity and the arrangements of these emissions to other regulations as well as the occasional function of individual lighting bodies, such as those of a particular lighting body. lighting the production of energy facilities, removing the consequences of natural disasters and other exceptional events or circumstances, security lighting of military defence and protection activities in the area for the purposes of defence, protection, rescue and assistance from natural and other disasters, signalling air, road, rail transport, maritime transport and inland transport in accordance with specific regulations. The definition or meaning of the concepts governing this area as well as the bonds of applying light pollution protection measures shall also be given. These are units of local self-government, the city of Zagreb, legal and physical persons as lighting operators, project designers of lighting projects, investors, supervisory engineers, lighting contractors. Mandatory measures are defined to protect against light pollution aimed at preventing excessive emissions of light, reducing existing environmental lighting at a permitted value, meeting basic requirements, protection relating to lighting bodies, lighting regimes, setting up lighting bodies. Also defined are the obligations and arrangements of the lighting operator responsible for the management of external lighting and which is obliged to ensure that the external lighting is shut down during the day with the required exceptions such as poor weather conditions or the needs of object protection. In addition, prohibitions relating to the use of light beams, of any kind or shape and their orientation to the sky or to the natural water body are defined. The lighting of openings, windows or doors, protected or living space by outside light, installation and setting of lamps past the prescribed provisions. It is also defined that in order to preserve the eco-system and biodiversity in protected areas, the lamps are placed at a coordinated temperature, the colors of light below 2200 Kelvins. The law on orderly planning, construction, maintenance and reconstruction of external lighting. In order to optimise and better plan, it is defined that units of local self-government, i.e. the City of Zagreb, are developing a lighting plan that plans to build lighting for all its administrative areas. The lighting plan is the basis for the development of action plans and external lighting projects. The action plan also plans to build new lighting and harmonize existing public lighting owned by the local self-government unit and the city of Zagreb, i.e. the operator of external lighting with the provisions of this law. It is an expert basis for the construction and reconstruction of external lighting in local self-government units, as a rule action plans already to develop lighting operators within their own capacities, i.e. a professional organisation if they do not have them. Administrative oversight of law enforcement shall be carried out by the Ministry and the inspection of the implementation of this law shall be carried out by the inspection responsible for the field of environmental protection, inspections, the area of the electricity sector and the market inspection of each in its sphere of action and on the basis of its respective legal provisions. In addition, powers shall be introduced for the conduct of the municipal director, who is authorised to order the lighting operator to shut down lighting and further use, unless it complies with the provisions of this law in the section defining the prohibitions of infringements, which are Article 11, paragraph 5 of this Act. The transitional and final provisions set out deadlines for the adoption of sub-legislative acts, which shall be adopted for the full application of the provisions of this law and those three regulations which will regulate the methodology of adoption, both action plans and concrete action in the implementation of this legislative proposal. A transitional period has also been defined for the harmonisation of existing public lighting, with the provisions of this law, which is 10 years from the adoption of the said sublegal acts. Therefore, units of local self-government and the City of Zagreb and lighting operators during regular maintenance or reconstruction, i.e. the replacement of existing lighting, are obliged to align the lighting, with the provisions of this law, and regular, invested financial resources, will be realised in the long term by savings, through savings in the consumption of el. Energy. Justification lies in savings, which will be achieved through the application of standards, and in the protection of the environment against light pollution. In addition, the law ensures the protection of human health, plant and animal life, as well as the rational use of natural goods and energy. For the implementation of this law, there is no need in the budget of the Republic of Croatia for additional funds. The proposal for this law was held at a public hearing, i.e. on e-consultation with the interested public from 1 June to 10 July of this year and what is most important here to say that the proposal of this law was done by a section of 25 relevant members, of which were representatives of 6 competent ministries, then representatives of the Croatian Institute of Standards, Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, Croatian Association of Employers, Croatian Chamber of Health Workers, Croatian astronomical Union, and the Association for the Protection of Night Sky. Their comments have been agreed and translated into this bill and this is the first reading, if any, we are willing to discuss and consider any objections to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93659	Thank you. At the presentation of the secretary of state, we have 3 replicas of our colleague Pranic, a colleague of Grmoja, a colleague of Zhagar, so here's your colleague, Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93660	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, today we are talking about the Law on Light pollution, the replacement of light bulbs in public lighting, in the jurisdiction of local self-government units, and parallel to 2.5 months ago. presenting program... loans for public lighting, by the HBOR, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You are a body that should be implemented, given, minimum technical characteristics, light usability, light color and lifespan of light. Thanks to your conditions, currently of 152 million kuna, from what is available, according to the latest unofficial information from HBOR, no unit of local self-government has applied for this measure, with which we in particular in the rural area could go with a change of public lighting, the introduction of ice lighting, the introduction of greener and healthier lighting. Really, I don't know, if you're the main body for implementing the conditions themselves. that the conditions cannot be changed, so that we from rural areas may report to that measure. [[I'd like you to finish your thought, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93661	Thank you. Replica No. Two friends of the Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93662	I agree with my colleague Pranic, whose story we have here on the fight against light pollution, and we have a situation, that we have no sides, means HBOR no funding for local self-government units, for that purpose. Most cities and municipalities are going to pay off a change of public lighting means for a certain period, they have such contracts, and the secretary of state here has said that this is an important fight and a noble goal of combating light pollution, and practically, neither the ministry nor any other body is doing anything about it. So, I don't even know what the purpose of this law is here, why the secretary of state came here at all, and this is again the sale of fog to Croatian citizens and to our parliamentary deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93663	Thank you, comrade Grmoi and last replica of my colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93664	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I'm going to discuss it a little bit more in detail, and now I'm wondering if you can answer me and it's about these terms that are now included in the law. Otherwise, the action plan was also in the previous law. A lighting plan is now being introduced to build units of local self-government. The law does not specify who makes these lighting plans, who gets the powers, whether they are in a public competition or how the powers to draw up the lighting plans themselves will be exercised. The lighting action plans I've had so far, there are, there are legal persons who make lighting plans, but for the lighting plan, nothing. I think the law should have defined that. Not only this provision that the Minister will pass the regulation but that the law should be defined in which way to determine who is authorised to adopt lighting plans. It's a very important document.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93665	Thank you. That's what we are. ... And here, the secretary of state would still answer you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93666	Dear colleague Sagar, I believe that Article 12 here is defined as the unit of local self-government will bring a plan of light. They ensure that the plan is drawn up. The way they'll do it, probably their representative body will say it. Whether that, of course, will go through a public call, whether they have their capacity to work alone or to seek the help of an authorised institution, we didn't want to limit it here because then it would turn out to be preferable to a particular structure. And then they'd ask why we're opening up some kind of possible arrangements for those particular structures. So here we have prescribed frameworks in which local self-government, the city of Zagreb and operators should behave, and here we will stand on this and local self-government makes a decision to its own authorities on the board, how and whom they will choose to draw up this plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93667	Thank you. We'll continue the debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. The first is a colleague, Mato Čičak, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here's your colleague, Chichak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93668	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. In front of us is a proposal to protect against light pollution. Since the adoption of the Law on Protection against Light pollution, more than six years have passed. During this period, many changes and additions to works in the area of construction, spatial planning and energy have taken place. As in other relative acts for this global problem, we have decided accordingly to substantially amend the law in question. In many cases today, problems are said to be global, but this one is indeed global and only a few countries successfully solve it. The lack of a directive that would precisely determine protection against light pollution only achieves great importance by further helping Croatia to be one of the EU's leading countries that has prescribed environmental protection measures against light pollution. Subject law regulates the protection against light pollution, including protection obligations, protection measures, means of establishing permitted values, lighting as well as its restriction and ban, the very conditions of environmental lighting, as well as other issues to reduce light pollution of the environment. The aim of the bill is to protect against light pollution caused by the emissions of light into the environment from artificial light sources which are primarily exposed to humans and then to the plant and animal world both in the air and in the water. We want to prevent the production of excessive light emissions, we want to reduce existing environmental lighting to permitted values, we want to prohibit the use of any kind of light beam directed towards the sky as well as to the natural water body. We want to start installing eco-acceptable lamps that will be placed so that not lamps that will be placed so that they do not shine into the horizon and above it but aimed at roads. Why so much... We will spend the night and day in natural and underground facilities, looking at energy efficiency, our goal is to reduce electricity consumption for public lighting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as deadlines are concerned, we have proposed the harmonisation of the existing public lighting infrastructure over the next 10 years and units of local self-government as well as the city of Zagreb will be obliged to draw up a plan of lighting and an action plan of construction or reconstruction of external lighting within a year of the entry into force of the regulation, which will be adopted by the Minister. The same Regulation will provide for the measurement and method of monitoring environmental lighting. It is also important to note that the eligibility of this law lies in the savings to be achieved by applying standards and protecting the environment from light pollution, and by adopting the law itself, we will not increase the resources needed to implement the safeguard measures because there will be sufficient resources already provided under the Croatian State budget. Let me remind you how the Environmental Protection Act defines light pollution as a change in the level of natural light in the night hours caused by the introduction of light produced by human action. We therefore pass this law to contribute to long-term protection and conservation of the environment itself. I will also mention administrative oversight of the application of laws by the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the inspection supervision of this law will carry out inspections that are responsible for the area of environmental protection in the area of monitoring compliance with the prescribed obligations of the units of local self-government and the city of Zagreb. In the case of surveillance, I will place a special emphasis on the enforcement of the obligation and the implementation of the measures to protect against light pollution and the monitoring of the state of environmental lighting prescribed by this law in order to establish that, in accordance with their capabilities, everyone implements environmental protection measures. In addition, we introduce the supervision of the communal director responsible for monitoring the enforcement of obligations and the implementation of measures prescribed by this law and that the same measures are not in the jurisdiction of the inspection. The power of the municipal order as well as its way and the control procedure are prescribed by this Act, but the Law on the municipal economy. We propose that the communal director of the power to adopt a solution setting out the measures and deadlines for the removal of identified irregularities in order to speed up the procedure, and hence the implementation of this Act. Light pollution is a side effect in the development of society. We increase our awareness and protect the environment and from this pollution because, regardless of what many do not notice, this is a big problem, global, and it is necessary to adapt the possibilities of both local self-government and the city of Zagreb, as well as all those who carry out lighting activities with one goal, and this goal is long-term protection of our environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93669	Thank you very much. We're moving on. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of counterparts Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93670	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is an extremely important law and solutions that help or help to protect the environment, human health then both animal and plant species and generally environmental protection are welcome. Mr. Horvat himself said in his opening statement that a large number of experts are working here, and it's not a miracle. This is indeed a complex law and technically it goes beyond certain knowledge, the knowledge of certain individuals, and it really is necessary to include as many experts as possible because if something is envisaged and written as a legal solution, it is generally shown if it is not well prepared that there is a problem when implementing in practice. And from that point of view, I will throw a little more emphasis on those concerned by this obligation, which are units of local self-government, municipalities and cities because they will eventually have to find the means to meet the requirements of this legal solution. But just before a brief introduction, Professor Željko Andrejić of the Mining and Geological Faculty of Oil, I think that for 6 years, I have read this somewhere, followed the sky above Zagreb and found that it is more polluted than Zagreb in Vienna. Vienna has 1.7 million inhabitants. And even more so, we're worse than Hong Kong. These are things that we need to take care of in the future, and in this sense this Law is welcome. But what I might as an observation should be, first of all, is, I've already asked Mr. Horvat's replica, it's the building plan itself. I remember when we had an idea to build our own in the community, for example. The plan to protect from the fire, we made it right. However, if we come to the confirmation of that plan, then we are told that this is not the way it works, it must still be done by people who are authorized. I don't think there'd be a problem here either. It should be clearly defined whether it will be done by persons who have the authority to develop such lighting plans and action plans, or if they are municipalities themselves, that you really allow them to do so when they are made to confirm it or that certain persons from municipalities are educated to do it quality again because it is strictly technical requirements again, but not only technical, but if it is, if they start to respect the provisions of this Law, it may be too expensive for that lighting to happen because of course if we want quality lighting, light that will have less impact on environmental pollution, then it is inevitable that this lighting will have to be more expensive, so that it is not in the plan of lighting that these provisions are too expensive and that at the end of the units of local self-government cannot carry out what they planned. You've put deadlines here in the transitional provisions quite long. The minister is given a deadline of 12 months, a year to pass the rules, and then to the units of local self-government after that for another 12 months to draw up plans, an action plan, and then of course there will probably be some deadlines as it is implemented. On the other hand, although it is not good that they are such long deadlines, in this case I believe they need to be extended so that everyone can prepare for the implementation of this important law. And perhaps what colleagues warn, they need to make extremely clear that the EU funds that are available to us and that we can use them to avoid obstacles here and when we adopt them, so that they do not misrepresent the documentation, so that we cannot use the funds of the EU funds. As far as I'm concerned, here's another thing about the communal director. We've gone too far. However you turn, the communal director would have to know everything. He'd have to really, I don't know if there's such a man who has so much knowledge, so much competence that he can... And this is where we mention it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be better to consider delegating certain activities from the municipality or local self-government units in other ways. Well, it occurred to me, it's not the subject directly of this Law, but certainly the Ministry of Environmental Protection, yesterday I saw those waste disposal containers on my street again, and then people sort it out, then people bring things, some sort of sort of sort of, some don't, then the truck comes along and stuff. Maybe at this point we'd like to say, it's more profitable to hire 555 people in municipalities and cities that would exclusively deal with waste sorting. Although that seems to be the case now when people are referred to say immediately to arrest, however believe that if we don't prepare well in the future we'll have big problems. The world's moving forward, and we're not allowed to cough. Let me get this straight. We welcome the adoption of such a law, I only hope that we can find common language around the direction towards which we will allow units of local self-government to do so in quality and that what is most important, what colleagues have warned can withdraw funds from European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93671	Thank you. We'll continue the debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. Next up is a colleague, Goran Beus, on behalf of the Glas and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93672	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. As for the proposal of the Law on Protection against Light pollution, the Glass and HSU Club has a whole series of doubts. First of all, it is amazing for us that Croatia is the only and first EU country to pass such a law. Thus, the promoter himself says that only some regions in Italy and Slovenia have defined these rules, and that other EU member states actually apply harmonised standards, standards and recommendations on the implementation of external and public lighting, of course in other laws. Here we want to be more Catholics than the Pope, so we've come up with a law that will now burden local self-government units to, above all, have to change the full public lighting in their area for the next 10 years. But the fundamental question to ask is whether Croatia is a light - polluted country. We only have one case of measurement in the center of Zagreb, above one college and that one measurement compares us to Vienna or Hong Kong. Even the man who did that measurement, a respected expert, says we have no data, let's say... where new settlements are being built and that they must set up measuring instruments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we don't have any data at all to tell us why we have to pass this law first. And so financially burden the entire country for the next 10 years. Layku is enough to look at the satellite footage of Europe. Croatia is a dark country, with the exception of some urban agglomerations such as Zagreb and some on the Adriatic during the summer, the rest of the country is in the dark. We don't have to look forward to it. Do you know how much light was turned off in homes abandoned in the Republic of Croatia? Enough to go to the bani, Kordun, Liku, to go to Bilogora, Slavonia, and you will see that there is no light left on every third house. It doesn't pollute anyone, it's abandoned. And on the other hand, we have an obligation to protect the most vulnerable groups, one of the forms of protection is one, I would say an ultimate requirement with a level of security to ensure that in all rural and suburban areas public lighting is ensured on all routes of movement, say children. Wherever they use public transport funds or wherever the school bus stops, lighting is required to increase child safety. It's usually about areas where there's no other traffic, walking areas, where public lighting actually exists because of those half an hour. It should be wise to evaluate and reconcile the pressures on the one hand and on the other. There are city units that go into it anyway. Well, they're bright beyond any logical conclusion and need. Moreover, the boulevard resembles Bethlehem, the local leaders think that they have increased the urban quality of their space. But those are logical questions. But there are some here who are controversial to us, let's say the apriors are forbidden by all beams of light directed into the sky and natural water, which by the logic of things means that no more so-called. A tourist submarine since the entry into force of this law can no longer operate. They function in a way that the glass floor has lighting bodies through which tourists look at the seabed, or at least a certain belt to which the light beam reaches. So this is what you told me I could forget about next season. The second thing we are interested in, what is the most controversial, is that the determination of the level of heat emissions is not defined by the law, but rather by the promoter that this will be determined by the regulation, which is the most controversial because it creates a corruption space. Why? Because defining that level actually goes hand in hand to certain manufacturers. Are you aware of that? I hope not. So the key thing will be defined by a regulation that the legislator has no influence on. And what if tomorrow is revealed that the heat emission level is defined according to the interests of certain manufacturers, then what do we do? Will the Parliament be to blame for that? He will because he missed to define it by this law. And he left it to the Ministry to define it as a rule. Here are the questions that make us think that Croatia is not in any danger, that there are no scientific grounds for being the first to adopt such a regulation and that it will impose such criteria on the economy and the economy among other things. I said one example that testifies. In order to avoid confusion, we are not against prescribing the conditions of light pollution, but we believe that in the different regulations that define construction can solve this, in any case our club will not vote for this bill. We'll stay restrained and see what you'll do in the next phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93673	Thank you. We're going to continue the debates of the counseling club. Next up is counterpart Michael Zmajlovic on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here's your colleague, Zmajlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93674	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Here I think it is good that Croatia is one of the few countries that has decided to pass one of these laws. And I would remind you that there is already a law on protection against light pollution, so it was passed in 2011. And when you analyze a little debate from that time, then you'll see that it was already warned that it would be bad for one such law to actually be one of those laws. That's unfortunately what happened. And what we have in front of us today on our assembly benches is another proposal that has certain improvements, but still what is the main point of the dispute actually and what is left for discussion is left for later. So these are the conditions specific to which the law stipulates that the minister will bring within 12 months and something is also said by fellow Beus Richemberg, therefore precisely on the issue of coordinated temperature, colors of light sources and other conditions that will actually determine how much this law will ultimately cost our cities and municipalities. What I want to mention here, and I would like it to be kind of appreciated because it's about the first reading of the law, is that maybe until the next reading, so that this law is made and the draft of this regulation that needs to be passed so that we can actually see and assess what the effects of this law will be given to cities and municipalities. There's a problem down there. So you have units of local self-government that maybe a year ago, two, five or six completely replaced their public lighting with a more energy-efficient and that in doing so, the deadlines for return and investment of 7, 10 and more years. So by forcing and binding units of local self-government to change lighting again over this 10-year period and harmonize with these conditions that we still don't know what they're actually going to be like, we're going to make municipalities and cities invest in exchange for lighting bodies and yet their investment hasn't even paid off. So, I don't think we're that rich, that the huge amount of money spent on citizens' tax revenues and that it really needs a good think. What about the projects that are already in... So those who have already been designed, those for whom funds have already been granted, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether they will comply with that rulebook that we still don't know what it'll look like or not. So I think it's one big lack of this bill, but we have enough time before us to have the promoter, the government actually and the ministry work through this proposal, and it's actually transparent to say what the conditions are, what they're going to look like, and what they expect at the end of the unit of local self-government. And I also support this skepticism or criticism that another one of the obligations given to the communal directors is actually putting these people in one impossible position. So back 7.8 years from the basic law they had, the Law on the Communist Economy is now more than 10 areas of law for which they are competent and should be followed. The question of the capacity of local self-government units but actually those people who do it. In fact, it's my assessment at this point of time of work that can't be done effectively for this very reason that everything for which there is no capacity in the competent state inspections then also shifts to the communal directors. If that is the case, then one comprehensive, comprehensive system analysis should be accessed and a certain number of these transactions should be transferred to local self-government units, but money should also be provided to increase these capacities. The SDP representative club will remain abstention in voting for this proposal precisely for these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93675	We've completed the debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. We're moving on individually. Next, in fact, the first in an individual debate since colleagues of Maras are gone is a colleague of Branko Bacic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93676	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. Mr. Cicak also said that the HDZ Representatives' Club would support this law. I agree with my colleague, Zmajlovic, however, that this law, although it has not and has not been passed in most EU member states, is not new, it already has, has been in force for almost seven years. I personally proposed this law at the government because it was a time when funds were tried to help units of local self-government to build and maintain public lighting without only going to public lighting that would consume less energy than to enable the construction of an eco-acceptable public lighting to protect the night sky from light pollution through the process of replacing or building new public lighting. Otherwise, it is good to say that in Croatia there is public lighting, about a consumer somewhere around 3% of the total energy in Croatia. So 3% of total energy is spent on public lighting, which is not small, we have to be very aware of that. And the fact that inefficient public lighting that shines there and where it is not needed and is not aimed at a zone of space that needs to be illuminated according to some budgets spends about 30% more public lighting. When you raise it to an annual level, it is approximately and knowing that 3% of public lighting is participating in energy consumption in Croatia, it is approximately the consumption of a mediocre or perhaps less hydroelectric power plant. Therefore, how much public lighting is participating and how much of that percentage is wasted and light that I am not saying that it leads to light pollution, these are the reasons why it started either in this process. And I wouldn't agree with my colleague, Zmajlovic, in the part where he says what we're going to do with those units of local self-government that started in exchange for their facilities and the existence of public lighting, and now this law gives them a new obligation to do so over the next 10 years. I believe that every single unit of local self-government that started to change the existing bodies of public lighting or was in the setting of public lighting, given the fact that already there is this law in a changed form, the existing law harmonised the construction of its public lighting with environmental public lighting to satisfy this law. And if that wasn't the case, and I'm allowing it, and I believe it was in a lot of cases. So it is good to move into this law, that, with environmental lighting, the public lighting that is more energy-efficient is put into place immediately. In that sense, I think the Environment Fund has implemented a number of projects. I think about 150 million kuna has already been forwarded from the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund to co-finance public lighting in Croatia in the first place for the needs of local self-government units. I therefore believe that through this plan that the units of local self-government will be able to rely heavily on the funds of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for some period of 10 years. As far as the observations are concerned, it may be the secretary of state and I wouldn't be going into it right now, but the data that is talking about the strength of the public lighting facility, the information that is talking about voltage, strength, etc., I personally don't have to deal with myself. And I personally support that, that these data which are professional to be defined by the law itself. And I don't see, they're, I'm sorry by the rule that the minister is going to bring, and I don't see any particular dilemma here, and it would be better if the Secretary of State told me instead to hear what he thinks about it, or why the ministry has laid down those elements by regulation rather than by law itself. And if it's possible to bring to that level that we, as Parliamentarians, are discussing it, I agree with that, but I think it's how much I know the law-making system somehow in the jurisdiction of not even the government because it's not on a regulation but on a rule that the minister himself will bring. When I read a little bit about what a communal director should do, which he should be doing in the implementation of this law, I don't think he's going to have to break up too much of a job, given that most of the public lighting is the one managed by the local self-government unit. The fact is that there are a number of operators and public companies, Croatian roads, Croatian highways and numerous other and public companies that will have to comply with their public lighting with this law but I say I don't see that there is any big business. Maybe it's more of this holiday illusion that's being set up conveniently in the advent, etc., one that could come under the supervision of this law but I'm saying there's not some big deal transferred to the back of a communal director and I think he could do it. So I agree that this law is passed, that, until the second reading, if there is any other remark or that at least the motion is made about the observations made by certain clubs and that we can pass this law in order to reduce this light pollution on the one hand, but on the other hand, something is still or, not less important, which is that the energy consumption is reduced by units of local self-government because, through certain analyses, it has been established that, somewhere over 5-6 years, savings achieved by the existence of environmental lighting and that this does not lose its basic purpose and that light space of night can compensate for investments that the local self-government unit should be set aside to set up environmentally acceptable public lighting in the sense of how this law prescribes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93677	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He's my first colleague, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93678	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bačić, from your presentations and this bill that is proposed, allegedly goes into reconstruction and I would say all the public lighting, should actually put in ice lighting or this less consumption. I personally think it's good but it would be far more logical to go gradually changing. It means that some kind of lighting that's not adequate is actually changing for ice. Of course, you should also predict how to cheape that public lighting in cities and small places where you could join some lights, actually some solar power plants, some small ones that you would tolerate, actually that could give energy in certain kilowatts for public lighting. But it's a process that I don't think should be urgent today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93679	Thank you. The answer to your line, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93680	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Music and I believe that the law went on this trail to gradually change it. You don't need to go into change right now, move, replace full public lighting. So, it remains on the units of local self-government that according to their plan they will make in accordance with the law in a ten-year period, change public lighting. Although I must say that already numerous units of local self-government have made and comply with the existing law and as they change or build new public lighting, they are now in line with the existing law. And the fact is that all those who are already bringing in new ice lighting have significant savings in public lighting costs, so this project can only be sustainable for some 10 to 15 years as long as it should be fully realised when it comes to its implementation. In doing so, only a ten-year stand-up can be made clear, but by means of it it can be a little bit more drawn up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93681	Thank you. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93682	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bačić has this few years in a debate of a settlement that still has no asphalt living very few inhabitants. One former chief now said so it's cheaper for us to move them here than to bring them asphalt. I've pointed out several times, some cities use it for beauty. The basic function of public lighting is actually the efficiency of human activities at night. However, this third dimension is being set that worries me most from the Slavonia area, and that is whether these settlements that are now going to be increasingly deserted should they be left in the dark to be walked by wolves, or should we really do everything possible to make them well-lit. In that sense, I said it was very important to define the lighting plan so that someone wouldn't think of it, so we won't shine there because we don't have anyone. The lighting plan is a very important document and it must also have this sociological dimension except for the various technical dimensions that we have talked about and which are quite complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93683	Thank you. Here's your answer, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93684	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't feel that you were replicating anything to me except that you agree with what I said, which is that I support the law, that I support this plan being adopted, so I support that a lot of these funds rely on co-financing from the fund itself, which is already around 150 million kuna after the law has been passed in these seven years to local self-government units, building a new public lighting that is green and energy efficient, and clearly it depends on the local leader how and in what way they will access the local self-government unit, I think it is to expect that they will take care of each of their premises equally equally and that we do not need to impose anything in many other projects, nor can we impose anything in this part, except that we define a certain period in which he has to implement it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93685	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. With Sanader's colleagues gone, he continues with his colleague, Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93686	Thank you, Vice President. I'm still sorry I couldn't attend the board's duties from the beginning, so I'll just be a little while. I couldn't go through the whole debate. I'm just going to be brief since the topic is certainly in itself is something that let's say we are somewhere ahead of the rest of the way I see Europe and that there are no directives and certainly it is especially to be praised from that ecological aspect. But we all know what I want to actually ask and see here through the goals and through what you want to prevent is certainly absolutely justified to me. All I care about is when you go to some towns, the metropolis do you want to go to Manhattan, you want to go to London, you want to go anywhere else and you come to their central square and it's like it's day. So, if this law didn't get me to see it in time, it regulates as far as it's concerned, because this is only about light beams to the sky through the facade, through the openings of protected buildings, etc. Is this regulated by the light that commercials give, and in what way? So is this something that this law covers or not, to what extent? I'm saying we have, people come think tourists it doesn't bother when at 3:00 in the morning somewhere in Manhattan at Times Square it lights up like it's day. I don't know how good that is, it's not good, how healthy it is. When we move away from the environmental aspect that from the consumption of heat emissions and that it's all done in order to regulate this issue at all, that's something that would beg a concrete answer. As a general rule, I'd like to know to what extent it's going. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93687	Thank you. We don't have your exposure, so we're continuing the individual debate. A colleague of Ante Pranic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93688	Thank you, Vice President. State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, before us means a new Bill on the Protection of Light Contaminants and perhaps the intention was really good, but in implementing this will not mean anything more than imposing additional units of local self-government because the law itself defines the needs of implementing action plans of construction, reconstruction of external lighting. In this respect, no one distinguishes in Croatia urban and rural areas and is not equal to financing public lighting or meeting the same criteria whether it is rural or urban. On your previous implementation of the law, I have presented one thesis and I remain in this regard, two and a half months ago a formal programme of crediting ESI loans for public lighting 152 million kunas signed by the HBOR, signed by the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds and the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, which should have been the intermediate body. On page 11, credits are defined as acceptable, unacceptable and credit conditions that are really favourable for local self-government units of 0.1% per year fixed for assisted areas of 0.25 fixed for local self-government units of Group 5 and 6 or 0.5 per year for Group 7 and 8. The intensity was good to restore public lighting of local self-government units through new loans that did not enter their own responsibilities. Personally, we in the town of Vrgorec have absolutely prepared everything for registration we have even sent myself to the HABOR, i.e. we were at an official meeting, however, our project fails to meet the conditions of the minimum technical characteristics of energy renewable public lighting. I am now asking a question, who are the technical criteria, the characteristics of which I am currently aware that no city or municipality has reported to you on this program? 152 million kuna stands in HABOR. We talked to HABOR, the HABOR told us that we must coordinate with the intermediate body of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Therefore, if we cannot implement at the moment, the fixed funds of 152 million kuna intended for local self-government units for energy-friendly and environmentally-acceptable lighting, the question arises, how will these even more difficult conditions, in terms of the action plan of construction and reconstruction of external lighting, contribute to this? It is one additional restriction because it is not the same to build public lighting and have the same conditions on the road in unclassified places, rural areas where you get the property 50 meters away and the urban area of the center I do not know Split, Zagreb, where the retail facility is upgraded to the adjacent facility. These are not the same conditions, and I believe that these action plans, which generalises the entire territory of Croatia, that does not distinguish urban and rural areas, will not bring anything but a major problem to the rural territory of Croatia, which covers 75% of Croatia's territory. Speaking of public lighting, every day, that is, every week, going and coming to Zagreb, I pass our highway. Did you notice an icelight on our highway? Well, the largest pollution of beams of light that affects birds' life above all flies or insects are off our highway. So how much savings or could be defined for the last 10 years that this public lighting, i.e. lighting on the highway, is defined in the form of ice lighting. Many cities, we in our city have refurbished over three hundred lamps through an esco model in the center of town. Because there were significant savings, not to mention the quality of light, air pollution. And each time, individual ministries want to impose something new on local self-government units through these laws of action plans. Something new that really costs. It costs our citizens because public lighting praises God, and we know that through the Law on the Communist Economy, it is financed from the communal compensation. Again, it is not the same to pay a man a communal fee in the rural area, nor did he pay in the urban area. And then the question arises, why don't we take one state of our own first and replace all the lighting on our highway through the ice to be the first one, and then we're going to introduce order to local self-government units? This law that we see at the very beginning, that is, in the very explanation that says that the issue of the legal arrangement of light pollution in our environment is resolved in certain provinces both in Italy and Slovenia. So in certain provinces, it is not defined in the rest of Europe at all. I don't know why Croatia, as if our citizens have a higher power than the Germans, if the German state doesn't have that at the level of its country that we now have to at our level or that Croatia would be the basis of some new criterion. When we all know what the average salary in Croatia is in the rest of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93689	We have a replica on your exhibit. My colleague Davor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93690	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Pranic, one logical question, and you're right about what you say when you talk about local administration units and their troubles about building and maintaining public lighting. I'm asking you specifically, do you think this is a matter of building and maintaining public lighting that needs to be taken over by HEP? How we build and she collects income from consumption. And I think it's a logical question whenever it comes to water consumption and other needs paid by citizens through consumption to pay for it, from HEP to build public lighting and to charge for it through consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93691	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93692	So the legislation here is clear, the local self-government unit is building public lighting even though the connections are actually paid to HEP when joining public lighting. Not only is this happening to us right now that all suppliers when you mention water, there are 20% more expensive currents for public procurement than last year, and that intensity goes beyond that. So this will mean an increase in the price of water, instead of turning to renewable energy sources to build solar power plants where the normal price of water would be reduced, we go through public lighting, or action plans that define additional criteria for local self-government units. What are the criteria, instead of at least being free to define how many lighting bodies in our field, these action plans will condition us that we actually just swallow the network in the rural area which and how our citizens will pay through communal compensation to make it sustainable at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93693	Thank you. And now finally on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93694	Dear MPs and MPs, I thank you on behalf of the promoter on all these suggestions. This is the first reading we have written down these remarks of yours and we will, of course, discuss everything and not rule out the possibility of correcting this text in certain parts. What I would single out here and say in the end that this whole thing is, so this whole adjustment by the legal concept takes 10 years plus 2 years. So, for 10 years, they have two more years of local self-government space, given the deadlines we've given to bring in accompanying acts. So we think 10 years is an optimal deadline, and at the end of the line, she asked to extend the deadline from 5 to 10, because the technology of the embedded lighting bodies is one that lasts in principle for 10 years. And 10 years is a period that we believe is sufficient for local self-government to adapt to the provisions and obligations of this law. Did we find the best solutions for this whole thing, I don't know, doesn't rule out the possibility that something needs to be corrected? But I could also answer that fellow Richemberger Beus asked if those submarines would be able to shine? Of course, it is not regulated by this law, therefore, that activity is regulated by some other regulations and the absolute provisions of this law do not apply to that matter. Col. Curaj, Article 11(8), we said that what is the obligations of the operator or of what is strictly prohibited, which is that the light-flow of the lamps in the decorative landscape lighting comes out of the gauge of lighting, that is to answer your question about ads that are somehow regulated somewhere. We want to regulate it this way with this law of ours. Therefore, I thank you once again for these discussions and we will discuss these remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93695	Thank you, Secretary of State. This concludes the debate on the proposal for a law on protection against light pollution, first reading, P.Z. number 407.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93696	Proposal for a Law on protection against light pollution, first reading, P.Z. No. The 407th Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law on Protection against Light pollution and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 80 for, 43 abstentions, have reached the conclusion of what the parliamentary working bodies have proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93697	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Restored Energy Sources and Highly Effective Cogeneration, First Reading, P.Z. No. 419 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. We have Mr Ivo Milatić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93698	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives, respected parliamentary representatives. The law on renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration, which entered into force on 1 January 2016, regulates the planning and promotion of production and consumption of electricity produced in installations using renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration. The implementation of the incentive system and the incentive measures shall be established. The issues of building a plant for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogenerations on state land are addressed and other issues related to the use of renewable sources for energy purposes include the objectives and development of the national action plan. Prior to the adoption of this special law, the issues of renewable energy sources were regulated by the Energy Act as a roof energy law and by a series of sublegal acts. Thus, the applicable law of the basic pre-established incentive system also laid down the obligation of the electricity supplier. They are obliged to assume at a regulated ransom price of 0.42 kuna per kilowatt hour from the Croatian energy market operator all the electricity that the Croatian electricity market operator buys from the basis of contracted purchases with facilities that use renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration. This commitment was to be lifted from 1 January 2017. However, by regulation with the legal force of 2016, 2017, it is on two occasions extension but should completely cease on 1 January 2019. Amendments and additions to the laws before you are proposed to establish a balance between the full opening of the electricity market and the sustainability of the system of payment of the incentive guaranteed electricity prices produced from renewable energy sources. In particular, although new power plants are being introduced into the incentive system through the establishment of the electricity market and the assessment of the evolution of electricity prices on the market, it is expected to achieve a sustainable system of conditions of gradual opening. The establishment of the KROPEKS electricity market and its work are relatively new on the Croatian market, and given that about 60 new plants will enter the next two years of the total planned power plant 250 MW that have purchase contracts with the Croatian energy market operator have been found to require a transitional period of opening of the system to the market. Therefore, the proposal provides for the obligation of the electricity supplier to buy from the Croatian energy market operator a certain part, rather than all the electricity in the incentive system as it has been the case so far. It is proposed that that share be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a regulation that would bring to the Ministry's proposal by 31 October of the current year for the following year. The remaining part of the Croatian energy market operator will sell on the electricity market, and as it is energy that has a guarantee... its priority placement is expected. Similarly, stricter rules on planning and deviation from production plans are introduced as an element relevant to the sustainability of the system. As a result, the work of the Eco-Bilkan Group will be established by the end of the year. Within the balance sheet group, a alignment will take place between producers who are entitled to a guaranteed buy-out based on a contract with a Croatian energy market operator. The obligation applies to all privileged producers producing electricity in installations having an installed power greater than 30 kilowatts. The law removes the indifference in the process of issuing and abolishing the amendment to the decision to obtain the status of the privileged electricity producer and creates the conditions for the whole process to be administratively simplified. In this respect, a separate regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be adopted. The government of the Republic of Croatia should decide on the matter as well as in the case of the right to use state-owned land. The law also regulates the question of competitions for the right of service and the right to build a production plant that uses renewable energy sources or highly efficient cogeneration on state land. The amendments to the law governing the management and availability of state assets also required harmonisation of the provisions of this law. This will enable all those who express interest in the development of a plant project on renewable energy sources and a highly efficient cogeneration on state land to make the selection tender the most favourable bidder to achieve smooth development and implementation of the project. The special regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia provides for these issues and for a clear, transparent and non-discriminatory way to place the potential of renewable sources on state land in place in a clear, transparent and non-discriminatory way in favour of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The register of renewable energy sources... Generations and privileged producers and the introduction of a separate sub-legislative act, i.e. a regulation laying down information, data, documents and documents to be entered in the register of renewable energy sources of cogeneration and privileged producers, registration methods, registration deadlines and other issues relevant for the establishment and management of a register of renewable energy cogeneration and privileged producers. The register is an extremely important element of the transparency of work and describes relevant information by several participants in the process and has public insight into it by all citizens for any project from the renewables system. The register is also part of the obligation under the Eu legislation, national spatial data infrastructure and serves to report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the segment of the development of renewable sources. The law also adopts changes concerning citizens and their participation in the energy transition. A category of consumer manufacturers is introduced in a way consistent with European standards, this law will provide a sensitive incentive in particular to the development of solar power plants in households, and a category of entrepreneurship is introduced among customers with its own production to the installed power plant up to half a megawatt, i.e. 500 kilowatts. The benefits of this system will be provided by legal and natural persons who live or carry out their activities in the facilities with which the production facilities are linked to the renewable energy source. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93699	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? colleague Marija Jelkovac, colleague Darinko Kosor and colleague Mihajel Zmajlović. If I don't open the debate. The first on behalf of the Advocacy Lists' Club is counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93700	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. We have here today a law which is in its scope where we see certain improvements and this is actually talking about one key thing, about solving the problem that has arisen in our recent past, which is that the system of fostering the development of renewable energy is actually coming to us today. He comes to collect, and Minister Coric and you State Secretary, at the end of the day he gets rid of himself from year to year, each year we actually hear the same story. And that is, how not to burden actually contracts from previous times, how to relieve consumers and how to find that space. It is clear that contracts are signed, support is given, and support will be consumed for years. We've talked about who it goes to in the House many times. What if they were assigned to us then maybe I'd call all of you together like this just saying don't go defend what we're dealing with here today. So 999 megawatts is a certain renewable energy source, it's contracted exclusively for wind power plants, all that's left there. And today, in fact, we, in the name of renewable energy sources, pay the price of such distribution. Wouldn't it be much simpler if we were here to defend 750 megawatts of solar small projects on tens of thousands of houses that would produce energy, we helped them, said OK, all together, solidly ensuring that someone's income is being added, maybe that would prevent a number of people who are not enough with their income coming out of unsustainable work, out of pay, so that it would actually be another activity, and maybe that milestone from making a decision to go somewhere. We always know how to say that if we gave someone state land, some amount that we actually tied him up, that we tied him to that place, we tied him up to do that activity and made it harder to make a decision to leave. Also, if we tied him up maybe then, but I'm saying, I can talk from this position, but it's over, we'd tie him up, maybe for that drive that needs to be maintained from time to time, it's supposed to be invoiced, it's gonna take a lot of action, it'd be harder for people to leave. Now these contracts that were signed have given the right to producers, which product makes them deliver their electricity to HROTE at the price that it is. CROATIES should, if we stick to the meaning of always calling for the European Union to be regulatory, place it on the market according to all these indications as it stands in the directives. And what would happen? It would be me, not this small, but this big gap that would be HROT, and this is how it rains, it coughs, it's been dying for a few years now, it's just that we can't pay it, we can't raise enough money to pay for all the contracts that someone has imposed on us. So someone shaped their legal decisions to come up with this situation and I'm asking you, same time we have laws here that we're discussing, so let's say we do this impact projection, all of us here ministers bring us bill proposals in which it only writes has no impact on the state budget. So we're not going to predict in the budget, but what we're missing is the other impact that affects the economy. If it had been discussed then that someone had said that billions would have to be found somewhere to pay off these contracts, how long would there have been a representative here to raise their hand for it? At that time, there was a lack of this level of responsibility, this level of democracy, to indicate all the effects of the bargaining that would take place. It was easy to determine let's go 999 megawatt all will agree let's go give it, there will be support, but all these are small numbers, tiny figures that in the June 42s, you need to multiply it, they don't have projections of people, they're not all experts in energy as much as they're going to be? Now that it's coming to us now we're suffering by a regulation, first we need a regulation, so let's get to the time. Well, the regulation has its own deadline. It's expired. There's something I need to do with her. We're going to change the law because it's pressing us all together again. But to say, political responsibility for this decision is enormous. It's huge because it affects not only us here that we're bringing today. And to the cry behind ours, which will be the government behind Plenkovic, who will come and burden them. And now we should see how many of these plants enter the production system. There could be another two, three governments to torture and seek the source of the funds if we act this way. We're going to extend it every year, and we're going to extend it for a year. Then the commission will come here and pressure us. You can't do that. So we'll look for some maneuvers we can't find. At some point, what, how long are we gonna move? We'll move until someone reaches the wall once and I say I can't make that decision anymore and then a huge burden will be poured on our consumers. We had an increase in the share of what everyone, we had an increase in the fees that all consumers see in their electricity bills, pay in that part of the decision made by some previous government, some previous ministry, some former minister. They pay for it with the growth of commitments, and they're going to show up again, and they're going to increase. We've cut VATs, so we've been doing a little bit of home support, but on the other hand, we have trading entities that have a transient neutral item. They don't have a VAT fee. They simply do VATs only accountingly observe, and in reality they increase the price of energy. We've put our business entities at risk. Their competitiveness. They're from a noble idea, which is to become energy as independent as possible, to achieve the highest degree of environmental protection through production, through renewable energy sources in that purpose, we've actually been under the rug to enrich a certain group of people who have quickly designed the system and today we're discussing the law here, we're talking about eco-balance groups, about various other small things, and we're essentially forgetting what's most important, and that's today we're in a position to discuss, on Friday, to confirm. We're gonna take that deadline off again, but there's still something pressing on us and people need to communicate. The Ministry has accurate data that systems, when they come into the drive, how much this difference is estimated because of course the market also has its ups and downs, how much it will burden all of our accounts and therefore needs to come out. It should be resolved, because if we expect someone to plan their production, which is what our most entrepreneurs are complaining about, that we have unstable business conditions and count on electricity growing on the world market, the European market is growing. The projections are that in the next 10 years, we're going to have a steady growth and I can hope for that. But what awaits them in Croatia, which is another addition to that. So we're a little bit more of that growth so it's not just what's expected to be around the production price of electricity, but also the supplement paid by our citizens, our entrepreneurs of the incentive price, and it's wanted justifiable for society. Unfortunately, society has lost that very social benefit. Instead of all of us sharing our satisfaction together with our success in creating a renewable energy source, we are actually paying a huge price and we have destroyed in fact any perspective that the government might be able to open up with new quotas. Now that the Secretary of State is here to propose to the Minister, we're going to open 500 MW of new quotas if one lip is to be given, I believe most of my colleagues here would say don't tell us yet, so they're calling us by now. And that's why it's very important because I say and we give and support that this is exactly the kind of law that we're going to do temporarily, but it remains sad that we're not able to identify and sanction the least politically those who brought us into this state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93701	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next up is counterpart Miro Totgergeli on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93702	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, as we have already heard today, we have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and a highly efficient cogeneration. Therefore, the law last adopted in 2015 and entered into force in 2016. It was clear back then in 2015 that such a solution that predicted that HROTs were practically all the energy purchased from privileged producers should be placed on the market from 1.1.2017 was practically already unsustainable, and it was unsustainable for several reasons. So it was unsustainable and because the fee was already too small for those who were at that time in the system, on the other hand, new contracts had already been signed that had not yet come into play, so that's another thing. Thirdly, it was illogical to expect that within a year CROTE would be able to train and form an ecological group. And fourthly, it was since the compensation was already insufficient when all that energy was placed on the market it was illogical to expect CROTE to achieve a higher price on the market than suppliers were obliged to buy at that time, therefore, it was only then in 2015 that it was logical that the law as complex as it is not sustainable, in particular it is not sustainable to start in 2017. Of course, then the government intervened twice and practically maintained the situation that was before that, which is that the suppliers are still obliged to buy all the energy from the privileged producers. It also intervened in the amount of benefits for privileged producers paid by all electricity customers. Now that we're talking about whether something is necessary or not at all necessary, I don't intend to defend indefensible at any time, but I like to talk probatively. So when we look at what our wish was ten years ago, so let's say in 2007, and what we had in 2007. We had practically in the system almost zero megawatts of electricity from the renewable energy sources that we were taking over in the system. In 2017, we came to 766 megawatts, so that's the data from 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Now, those who were participants of that time know that virtually everyone hesitated at all from Croatia's electricity industry, including HROTE and HERE, HERA was practically developing to form a general, therefore, countless problems to open the market at all, create conditions and encourage people to build renewable energy sources and then put them on the network. Without the incentive system, it really wouldn't be possible at all, and today we'd still be very low on the energy taken over from renewable energy sources, if there wasn't an incentive system. Now what's the real question, the ratios by species of renewable sources, so 31. 12. In 2017, solar power plants have almost 52 megawatts, 5 megawatt hydropower plants, 520 megawatts, biomass 36, biogas 37, a dump gas power plant and gas plant from waste water treatment plant 5 and a half and a cogeneration of 113 megawatts. So we came to these values thanks to these incentives that we are talking about. If they weren't there, they might have stayed there for 2007. 2008. Now, it's interesting when we often hear that we shouldn't have the wind, and we should have the sun. I agree that we shouldn't have had as much wind, especially as we already have commitments for the wind for the future, but it's convenient when we talk about having a lot of sun, and a little wind, to look at how much of these incentives are paid for what kind of renewable energy sources, or when we look at the average amount of incentives per kilowatt hour for what kind of energy. So for solar power plants for 2017 the average kilowatt hour produced in solar power plants is 1.93 kuna. As long as it's in the power plants on the dump gas and gas from the wastewater treatment plant, it's 0.38. The wind was 0.74 lipe, hydropower plant 0.96, biomass 1 kuna and 26, bio gas 1 kuna and 28, and cogeneration 0.53. So, on the one hand, the wind per kilowatt hour of paid incentives, therefore, something comparable to the kilowatt clock in solar power plants is almost three times less paid incentives per kilowatt hour. The total number works a lot because we have a lot of megawatts in the wind, and in the sun we have about 10 times less megawatts but that kilowatt clock costs almost three times more. This is about the incentives themselves and what the incentives have brought us over the past 10 years, but thanks to these incentives we have these quantities of megawatt hours of produced electricity, or installed power in the plant. When we talk about an environmental group, it's not such a simple thing to say, and the HROT reports that they actually had to get software first that they can even assess, because what does an eco-sustaining group mean? In the second day, they must assess how much all producers in the incentive system will produce electricity to know what they can sell on the market tomorrow. Now they don't have to do it because all they don't have to do now is because everything that is produced by all suppliers, however much they have to take over and pay for 0.42 kuna per kilowatt hour. The moment CROTE is going to sell it on the market, so CROTE has to know what they're going to sell tomorrow, so they know they have to make an eco-balance group so they can figure out what production is going to be every day. Now, here we come to that problem that is similar to wind and sun, which is that the amount of electricity produced depends on how convenient or unfavourable weather conditions are in the next period, which is usually a day for a day or for a week etc. In order to do so at all, it was completely illogical to expect CROTE to create a system from nothing within a year and form an eco-balancing group, and the 2015 law actually prescribed it with 1.1.2017. Of course it's been delayed along with the delay of this system that we're going to sell all the electricity. And now we come to those solutions that this law makes and that's what's good. So it was systematically seen what we need in the coming time, what we have, what we have, what we have done, whether we had to or could have been less, but we are where we are and that is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia at the moment. This bill is heading towards the direction of the system to be sustainable. So by the end of the year CROTE must now form an eco-balancing group, which means that conditions are being created that it can sell part of the energy, and how much it will sell, how the system will develop in this way, decisions will be made on the amount and percentage that suppliers must take and which part goes to the market. In the already proposed 2015 law, even in the legal decisions before 2015, guarantees on the origin of electricity or the guarantee system for the origin of electricity were developed. But really, he hasn't come to life with us until today, of course, because we had incentive systems. Those who were privileged to do so, they can't even benefit from the guarantees they can't trade, and HROTE himself wasn't trading guarantees either because all the electricity he took over was actually being taken over by suppliers. Now, by developing the market, by creating an eco-balancing group and by launching the electricity market produced from renewable sources, we are practically creating the preconditions that the HROTE is now going to start as well as the trader with the guarantees of the origin of electricity and thus we are developing that system. And the fact is that any privileged producer that isn't in the incentive system can trade itself with guarantees. Until today, however, I have not been informed that we have one such producer. I don't know, maybe you know him. Furthermore, this law, the draft law which is before us and the competitions related to the granting of state property or state land for the right of construction or the right of service for the construction of renewable energy sources and all buildings for renewable energy plants and, unlike the last solution, prescribes competitions where this is actually in line with the laws already adopted on the availability of state property. What might still be good to emphasize about this bill, and time is slowly leaking me, it is that the final customer who is also the electricity producer now with this bill proposal especially if the category of household practically gets so I can say even drastic benefits. In fact, this should stimulate customers in the household category to install renewable power plants without going into the incentive system because as complex as the solutions that are given are really stimulating. The same is true for a slightly different form and for entrepreneurs. However, this form as one of the solutions existed also in the 2015 law and at any point now the final customer who installed the facility, for example, for the production of electricity from the solar system without problems, could have achieved and sold electricity to the supplier of course and bought it and then compensated one another. Here, of course, this Bill of Law also regulates relations between actors who are practically involved in the issue and contract and the electrical consent of HERE, HROTE, HEPODES, HOPS, ministries, but also the process of obtaining the status of a privileged producer. And I'm going to finish resuming. This is a good bill at this point given what we have. It respects the fact that it is in the Republic of Croatia and ensures that the incentive system can survive. It allows the ministry to make decisions in the coming hours on any new quotas, accelerates those who have already taken over who have contracts and have not built their facilities to take away these quotas and give to those who can do so. And the final result of this bill is that instead of exclusively the incentive system, we also launch the electricity market produced from renewable energy sources through the sale of guarantees of origin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93703	Thank you, colleague Totgergeli. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go, Mr. Chury.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93704	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Very briefly, I think the core and that my colleague Totgergeli was well selected by the secretary of state. I'll just remind you of one chronology regarding renewable energy sources. We had a decision from 2007 at the time on the ransom price of 65 limes and 1,200 megawatt hours. In 2012, that price went to 71 lipo, and there remained 1,200 megawatt hours and then in 2013 it was reduced initially to 400, and then since certain manufacturers had already concluded contracts and made investments it ended up at that 750, 760 megawatt hours as regards the wind power plant, but the ransom price was changed not from those 71 but as the reference price therefore, the market price was free of benefits and there we came to this 42 June. Now we have, therefore, if we are specifically talking about the figures of what should have been 21 billion then in 2013 and 2014, it has been reduced by 7 billion subsidies to producers. Of course why it's done, we all said, although when the minister did it then he got a lot of attacks to euthanize renewable energy sources, to favor oil, research, etc. However, of course we had certain obligations and we still have them regarding the relationship of production and the source of electricity production, not to mention the very energy independence that we are talking about all the time, both now about electricity and gas, oil, therefore, I think it is very important that we always have this diversification and supply direction when we talk about it, but first and foremost from where, of course, as much of our own production, that more independence, and of course we know that renewable energy sources are very unstable and that they may therefore be the most expensive, but that we know their impact on the environment. And that's why these amendments to the law are coming, as has already been said, I will only say very briefly, that we have these preferential ransom prices that have been agreed on and that we have to comply with the law otherwise we would get not something that we have to pay for next year but something that would come right away by breaking contractual obligations and we are actually allowing this law what the Government has adopted to prolong because it should have already entered into force 1. 1st and 2018th so it has been extended in a year, and we are, in fact, in this law, establishing this problem where these electricity suppliers have been obliged to buy at a regulated ransom price, precisely those 42 June, and to put order into it. Of course, this law also sees that as much as possible the balance and interest of the electricity supplier on the one hand and the survival of the system of stimulating the production of electricity from renewable sources and cogenerations on the other. So, I think it's absolutely clear that the contracts have to be respected and that it's not disputed, whether it's good or not, whether it should or shouldn't have been, it's now a question that we can debate, but that's what's ahead of us. I always think that the truth is somewhere in the middle, I think it's good that it's downgraded, imagine that it's left that original plan from 2012 or 2007 on 1,200 megawatts, and what that would mean at that time with a compensation for a renewable energy source that then went to 3 and a half June for 0.5, and today we know that we had to go to 7 and, even less, but we compensated for citizenship primarily by reducing VAT. Of course, this regulates the status of a privileged electricity producer due to some illogicality in the process of suspending the changes to the status of the privileged producer itself. So dealing with innovative technologies, so we're going into step with time, etc. I think that, above all, what is important is to determine exactly these questions about the collection and calculation of the funds for the payment of incentives in order to prescribe the ability to raise funds for the purpose of paying them. So, I think that everything that this law is actually doing should go at that beginning of the process to reduce pressure on suppliers, but to open the way for further liberalisation of the electricity market in Croatia as you know we have our stock market, i.e. KROPEKS, and absolutely that as far as this law is concerned, the issue of the register.................................................................................................................... Here is the conclusion, of course, the HNS Club will accept this and I think that what is important in the end is that we just accept all the obligations that are ahead of us from before we absolutely regulate them on what to say so peopleally, that it hurts us as little as possible, but that we are going towards liberalisation, according to the market determination of purchases of electricity and, of course, existing production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93705	Thank you, fellow Stjepan Curai. Next debate on behalf of SDP's representative, counterpart Michael Zmajlovic. Here's a colleague of the Dragonman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93706	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. At the very beginning of the debate on behalf of the SDP Club on the Proposal for a Law on Renewable Energy Sources and a highly effective cogeneration with the Final Bill proposal, I would like to say that the SDP Club will be restrained when voting on this document, and the reasons for this position are the following. So, through this debate so far, but also the opening statement and what's been going on for the past three years, actually the impression that this law is dealing with a system that's proven to be not really working. So, we're fixing, trying to fix a system that doesn't work at all, and that's why those two regulations that have been passed over the past two years, or three years of government, are talking about trying to continuously improve something that doesn't work, and that doesn't lead us to the achievement of those goals that Croatia should actually seek to change the structure of energy production, so it goes more towards renewable energy sources, etc. But, of course, it's not as simple as it usually is, the question is actually the whole energy strategy and the total energy mix and in whether you have a built-up system that, in fact, that the energy that comes from new energy sources is as cheap as possible and, on the other hand, that you have a place to clean up, or hand it over to the network. Therefore, the assessment of the situation itself found that those responsible for the implementation of the law and their inaction had also brought to the government that legal forces had to amend the existing law and established that other models of financing the production of electricity from renewable energy sources at stimulating prices and even after 3 years of entry into force, therefore do not exist. What would be much more meaningful among other things is that this law defines precisely the frameworks and dynamics of placing production from renewable sources on the market. Here it is again left to the government to make a decision, or regulation at the end of the year, so in October, but it is not known the market in which way and what dynamics it will happen. So the rest is discretionary law and again government and again here the market actually has no clear long-term signal... Things are going to move there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is why the key question is how to secure funding and transparently share money for all of this covered by this law, regardless of what this is about, the funds that come directly from the budget, but there is income from other bodies that are being allocated and collected ultimately from end-users, i.e. citizens and economic operators themselves. The legislator should therefore make a comprehensive analysis of the impact of the law, so not only adhere to the blind law that prescribes it, but also to produce a comprehensive analysis. I'm afraid that even after this law, these amendments to the laws of the citizens will not again have the opportunity to set up insurance for... a system that would increase the number of solar power plants for its own consumption, as well as that it would not simplify the administration that would speed up the construction of small and large solar power plants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This proposal is another document prolonging supplier's obligations to buy energy from renewable sources at regulated prices, prescribe different energy purchase prices, regulate status and competitions for building rights, and these are all important details, without doubt, but only details without an offer of vision and without courage. That's why I'm asking here where the low carbon strategy never went? Where is the development of the energy development strategy of the Republic of Croatia? Why this low carbon strategy, where it is shown that solar energy and wind in Croatia can and should be used much more and better, which, of course, caused by those who sell fossil energies of certain concern, but Croatia, apart from blindly meeting EU commitments, should have a clear vision where it wants to be 2030. 40 and 2050. This is how it turns out that we only think from year to year and we don't know and we don't want to know how this system of ours is going to develop. I would remind you that, on 14 June 2018, an ambitious agreement has been reached between European institutions, so a new directive on renewable energy sources that should completely change this existing state of affairs, or existing relations, it goes towards allowing citizens the right to own energy production, to ensure fair compensation for excess energy delivered to the network, state support for energy projects citizens and should speed up and simplify administrative procedures, encourage innovative funding, allow citizens with low income to become so-called citizens. Energy citizens and, at the same time, binding EU Member States to form certain targeted measures. So citizens focus on allowing citizens to become energy producers in a very simple way to exploit that potential and to reduce their accounts. Isn't that exactly what we need in these really difficult and insecure times? To allow citizens to cut their costs, to make revenue from what nature has actually given us. Finally, the SDP club cannot support the bill's proposal in such a text, although such a law is needed, but it should have been much more sophisticated with a stronger vision than the government has suggested. Here, a declaration of desire and will to establish a new energy system in Croatia appears to serve only, as I have said, or a fig leaf to the government to cover one incompetence that has lasted here for 3 years in the establishment and realization of a quality energy sector. When we bear in mind that Croatia exports 50% of energy, then we see that by reducing energy imports and by substituting and renewable energy sources, we have a great opportunity for GDP growth and employment growth, and we can only achieve this if we approach energy in a strategic and plan-based way without a fig in our pocket and without wanting to benefit from individual particular, interesting lobbyes at the expense of public interest. And that is why, at the very end, I repeat, the SDP Club will be abstention when voting on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93707	Thank you, fellow Dragonman. And the last debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives, it is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS, colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here's a colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93708	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. On behalf of the HSS Club, I also say that we will not support this bill that is necessary in order to regulate one area that was long ago 2, 3 years ago needed to be regulated and we see that, in the meantime, by two regulations, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has corrected the situation. And now we should once again pass a law that the government will again resolve by a regulation. We are generally against the fact that the government regulates the regulation by this area because if we put electricity on the market and this system is complete then surely we must guarantee in a certain way a stable price of electricity to citizens, households, but certainly ensure that our economy is able to plan for its development investment plans to be high quality and not that every year by regulation, the Government solves the issue of electricity markets and the stability of that market. Even today, by passing this law, we will have no security in this area. And the question arises as if one of the objectives of this law is the opening of the market, the sustainability of the system, the sustainability of public finances and the financing of this system and the transparency of the distribution of electricity in a transparent manner and the payment of preferential producers by purchasers and distributors. It is still not resolved until the end, but will be dealt with by the government through a regulation. That is why we are against this way of passing laws, i.e. on the possibility that the Government regulates it by means of a regulation, although we understand that this area is sensitive and that we should listen to what the regulations and the EU Directive impose on us, but on the other hand, the signed contracts and concessions awarded to privileged renewable electricity producers and the question is why we still have 60 privileged producers that have concessions or contracts did not complete their production plant and when they will go to what dynamics to plan the entire electricity supply system at all, or whether there was the possibility to break those same concession contracts. Because we see that according to the Republic of Croatia, this part that has been allocated specifically to wind electricity production is financially unfavourable for the Republic of Croatia, and in this way we certainly do not help Croatia or our economy, especially when it states here that one of the objectives of this law is the development of solar photovoltaic power plants in households and the possibility of granting new quotas. This is what HSS advocates, that we open up this space so that interested natural persons at their homes can build solar power plants and thus generate savings in their household and we are particularly interested that craftsmen and entrepreneurs who have the opportunity to build a solar power plant on their production plant, that that part of the electricity they need for their production use for their own needs and that they have the opportunity to sell to the operator, i.e. compensate. I think that we also need to discuss these conditions in the electricity market, especially when we know that we still don't have a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, which is not good, and I think that this strategy should have been adopted first, that we know exactly what we want, if it is and is one of the goals that we have 20% of the production of electricity from renewable sources, then we should determine whether it is what the Croatian interest of the sun is, whether it is households, whether it is craftsmen and entrepreneurs or whether these concessions are the ones that got it for wind power plants and we see that it is unfavourable for Croatia and that it is a harmful contract and that we can't even financially track it. And what we certainly have is one of the competitive advantages in the Republic of Croatia, which is the possibility of producing electricity from hydropotentials, why has it stalled, why for many years, none of the hydrocentrals has been built and that there is a great interest in Drava and Podravina and that municipalities and counties have taken a lot of action to install it into spatial plans but nothing since the investment, and it would certainly contribute to the stability of the electricity supply system, new jobs and the preservation of life in these rural areas. And when it comes to this law itself, it is our proposal to pass two laws, a law on the heat market and a highly efficient cogeneration and another law on renewable energy sources. The weight of the first law would be the construction and development of central heat systems and the production of heat energy in cogeneration plants in a highly efficient way. A highly efficient cogeneration would be based on thermal performance. In addition to secondary electricity generation, only heat would be driven by the use of renewable energy sources and the focus of the second law would be to design, build and stimulate production and consumption of electricity produced in production plants using renewable energy sources. Measures would be encouraged to produce only electricity and use renewable energy sources. In particular, in Article 1(2) of the Law itself, it is added to the previous law which does not comply with the objectives, since it opens up the possibility of using coal or liberating oil as a primary source of energy and calls for a high efficient cogeneration, thereby obtaining a market premium and a contract to encourage a guaranteed ransom price as well as any other rights and obligations arising from this law governing the issues of the construction of production facilities and obtaining the status of a privileged electricity producer for plant products. In particular, Article 1(1) states: This law regulates the building of a production plant and the acquisition of the status of a privileged electricity producer for production plants using any of the primary forms of renewable energy sources in the Republic of Croatia and/or high efficient cogeneration. Whether it creates this possibility, whether we're wrong or wrong, but here, I'd like you to consider it, to see if it's well written, and whether it's meant to have the production of electricity from renewable energy sources, and not to get it past that cogenerations are primarily used as coal or lush oil and then underline it under a highly efficient cogeneration. Here's another thing we're committed to doing is reviewing the possibility of adopting a strategy for energy development of the Republic of Croatia to use our own sources of hydropower, to enable our households to install solar power plants and produce electricity and thus generate either other income or reduce the costs of their directors, or to give production plants and crafts as many times as possible, to produce their own electricity for their own needs and compensate for the difference in the market with the operator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93709	That's what ended the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. We continue with an individual debate, the first application is colleague Vlaho Orepić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93710	The Honorable Chairman, Secretary of State. I truly consider rows and definitions of responsibility to be the key to any success. I have already drawn attention to the fact that not even 10% of the laws passed this High House, the impact assessment has failed, and thus we face the problems that we are now facing, or in some way, trying to patch up the mistakes that have happened before. I have no intention of really putting out criticism without any cover, especially without a proposal for a solution, as is happening in the universal population and in some new modern sovereignism, but I must say concrete things. I represent a measurable policy, a policy that has a clear goal, which is a regulated state. From this proposal you will see a whole series of things or problems that generate regulatory inefficiency, real uncertainty, state order in the end, is whether, without talking about some kind of market intervention, whether, so the market is not as open as it should be. It is these four areas that are clearly measurable, and they are setting us up, so the problems that are accumulated in these four areas are putting us at the bottom of the EU when it comes to the index of economic freedoms. And it's not an accident, it's this simple measurable policy where we can just put ourselves where we belong. This is not any politics, this is a simple fact, and with this debate I want to contribute to that index of economic freedom that is now about 60 quantifiable, the fact, the number of concrete, our measure, to increase precisely in these areas that I was talking about. So in regulatory efficiency, legal certainty, state order and openness of the market. In particular, here's the first proposal I want to say that we need to find a way, if it's possible to put all energy on market relations, simply in Crobex, our stock market because the fact that from today's law in September, September 11, 2017, generated loss is 453 million kuna. And this loss refers to the loss of a state-owned company, here is HEP and these electricity suppliers that had to take over the total electricity of "renewables" so to put it this way, at a price of.42 kn per kilowatt, whether, by kilowatt hour, the average market price was 0.26. Now, because of some intervention or intervention, it is more expensive because of the commitments imposed by the EU whether, in terms of CO2 certificates, we now have the situation that regulated price purchases for "renewers" 56 euros per megawatt hour, refers to August and September, and the market has jumped to 60 euros. So at this point, "renewers" if they were on the open market, they'd be in a good situation. What do I want to suggest specifically? So the state cannot and should not regulate the price of the market or the price of energy obtained in any way. That's what I'm suggesting on this. Secondly, what I propose and I do in some way contribute to this measurable concrete policy is that energy producers from renewable energy sources finally assume and commit to balancing the system. We know the situation, let's say at night the wind blows, the wind power products, the system has to receive it, it has to be admitted into the system, the whole energy produced, and that balance system costs. That balance system costs and that's our... again claims or endures losses and all other market participants, all except those who produced that energy, i.e. those renewables, to whom we are obliged to buy... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem is extremely large, so we should find a model, not wait to expire, all of these contractual relations, if possible, communicated, see if it's possible, at least to take over that part... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a system that's a really big injustice at this point. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The next thing I know, I want to point out, an incredible situation, which is often happening and which is often the case, which is that we don't apply the laws that are passed in this whiskey house. So, for the second time since 2015, a law has been passed in September with effect in 2016 for the past 2 years, a prolonged application, which regulates all this law. And I know the consequences you're facing and the problems that are why I want to contribute to this debate as much as possible. But let's do more previous impact assessments, the laws we're making, with concrete numbers, concrete indicators, and please, let's finally decide to comply with the laws passed by this House of Commons. This is amazing, I mean, in this case, the government, two years in a row, is pro-longing the law that brought this House of Commons. So what are we doing here? What's it for? We lack all seriousness because I want to say that politics and what we're dealing with can and should be a responsible job, in the interests of the people alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93711	We have a replica on your exhibit, colleague Ivica Misic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93712	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Orepic, when we want to do something, we forget it, we practically didn't have a strategy on renewables. Energy and solar power plants. If it were a strategy, we'd think about it differently today. We say we've made losses, somewhere 999 kilowatts are made and it's mostly put into the wind power plants. So the losses you mentioned from 450 billion, millions, pardons, imagine now that it was a strategy, that solar power plants were divided into small farmers, in fact, farms, cattlemen, ours in Slavonia or anywhere they would benefit from it, and thus they would remain in Slavonia, and that would leave 999 thousand people there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93713	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93714	... We put ourselves in a position to pay something more expensive than the market price. [[Specially enabled.]] I've lost HEP somewhere around 230 million kuna. We could buy the cops vests, now no problem with that money, and we wouldn't have that problem, have protected our officers who are on each side of the border having huge problems and doing a remarkable job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93715	Thank you. And the last individual debate, colleague Zeljko Lenart, by this point, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93716	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Like most laws in Croatia, such laws are written in a way that the left does not know what the right hand does, we write the laws, then they turn into our heads. There is no such thing as a normal strategy in the long term. Renewable energy choices, long-term jobs. And investors, who want to get into this business, need to know what's waiting for them until the cost-effectiveness moment and normal, some profit in that business that they're doing, whether it's big or small producers, who are installing solar power plants on their roofs. However, this is not a situation in the Republic of Croatia, it moves according to one law, so this law is changed by regulations, so the other law is passed, and eventually those people who have invested, no matter what money, whether it's small for a small power plant or for a large one, stay in windstorm and lose, and in this way, we see, that it loses the state. We have to decide in this country whether we want renewable energy sources or not. If we want them, then we have to make some kind of strategy and say under what conditions we want and whether those involved will have profits. I'm asking if any of you would enter the production of renewable electricity without expecting any profit, after a certain time, when that investment is paid off. Well, of course no one's going to work with a loss. However, we have become in a lasting way complex that more people do not even know. That's why people are leaving. Well, thank God, in this sector, we have a lot of experts who can project in 20 years about how much this job should be worth. But here we are, to the loss of 450 million kuna. We import electricity, it means 30%. We need all the sources of el. Energy. I've known people who try to build a small power plant on the waterways, meaning a renewable source, for two and three years they've been chasing paperwork, fighting administration, even having a concession on their property, which is complex, because there was a mill there, and they just struggle with it, and they can't live and give up on such things. Do we need it or don't we need it? Well, of course we should, I think for 30 years and more we've been talking about these little streams that can produce energy and results very little or not. I ask you who under these conditions would get into it, it's easier to give up and do something else than get into something, and then we don't know what. Like any law in the Republic of Croatia, what massacres it are regulations. My colleague Vlaho said, "Well, if the government does it all that way, then what are we gonna do? Let the government bring, implement, do everything it does, and we'll finish how and now we end up just finishing up the country and it remains for the people to simply get the impression that they've all given up on Croatia and that they're trying to take what's left and gone. My people, we're out of young people, we're out of labor. Entrepreneurs know it very well, especially builders who have been kidnapping for people who know how to do things. This is the same story that's been spinning for years and then here's what we have means, the ones that got the subsidy, the one more, the other less. So, again, not everyone who produces from renewable energy is equal. I believe that it is crucial in this sector to adopt a strategy, that it is crucial to say what will and how the Republic of Croatia will produce electricity in the next 20 years and only after that can we make a quality law that will regulate this and which will bring normal and profit to those who invest in this sector because they will hire and pay and these are technologies that are quite expensive and that change very quickly and new technologies are coming. I don't think a debate like this is going to lead us anywhere, but the state is going to be making losses again, and we don't have new producers, we don't create new electricity, nor do we have new people who would like to do that job at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93717	Thank you. We have a replica on your exhibit. This is colleague Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93718	Thank you. Well, just one comment on what they're saying. So when the incentives were greatest we had the smallest manufacturer. As the incentives fell, our privileged producers grew. And now HERA practically last year in 2017 has yet to issue documents to privileged manufacturers on some 200 and some megawatts. So they're the ones waiting in line to go into production. Therefore, I think that entrepreneurs who want to deal with renewable energy sources, they are aware that at first when we had nothing, when no one knew about it almost anything was supposed to encourage much more than it needs right now. And in that process, you get that whole system from year to year and it goes. So, the future certainly exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93719	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93720	Comrade Totergeli, I'm talking about the incentives that have been so far. I'm not saying that incentives are necessary, but that cost-effectiveness is necessary. Whether she'll be with or without incentives. If there is no cost-effectiveness, there are no new manufacturers. But unfortunately all of this will end up being paid by who? Manufacturers or taxpayers, all losses. They will not be paid by any president of the HEP administration or any state-owned company. Someone will pay, small taxpayers and users of all that because when there is no money, the price of electricity rises and the losses and problems arise. Whether the incentives or not, it doesn't matter to me, but it's important that people who do this know why they're dealing with it, why they invest money, and that at the end of the day they'll be able to pay their workers and that they'll have some kind of profit from that job, because in every business, it's a normal thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93721	Thank you. And finally, Mr Ivo Miletic, State Secretary. Here you go, on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93722	Mr. President, the Honorable Parliamentarians and MPs. I thank you for the debate in this proposal for this law in the first reading. More or less the topic of the debate was similar to that in some previous situations when renewable energy sources were mentioned, but what is necessary here, we simply cannot allow as the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the system which has so far worked and the contractual obligations we had not acted on under these contractual obligations because it would be extremely irresponsible and harmful for the Republic of Croatia. What is important is that no country in the EU and beyond has developed renewable energy sources unless it has introduced significant incentives. Since it is common in us to say that we are somewhere at the beginning of something, here in this debate is not said, here I will note that the Republic of Croatia is practically at the last place at the height of the compensation for renewable energy sources. So, 1.4 euro per cent, while it precedes clearly Germany 6.3. Here, our Slovenian neighbours have 3.2. So it's not the Republic of Croatia that has a terriblely large fee, but clearly that in this situation when citizens have the incomes they receive, it's clear that every imposition is about the one that is being collected. What I would like to mention about the mention of a low-carbon strategy. The fact is that previous ministers before Mr Coric developed a draft proposal for a low-carbon strategy, at a high level of development was the draft, but it is not normal to adopt a low-carbon strategy that is a sub-strategic of the energy development strategy of the Republic of Croatia. And the Ministry in the process of drawing up the proposed Energy Development Strategy by 2030, with a view to 2050, and it is logical that it would be irresponsible for us to adopt a carbon strategy, and that, after that, according to the carbon strategy, we coordinate the main energy strategy. It's logical to bring in a roof document and then bring in those documents that are underneath. As regards these remarks by the Club of Representatives of the HSS, there are approximately remarks issued on the parent committee by the Chamber of Commerce. I think it's clear to you that law enforcement isn't about what you said, but maybe it's... What we would modernly say today was not adequate, we will look at it and in the course of two readings we will manifest ourselves and inform him of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for legal certainty and what Mr. Honorable Representative Vlaho Orepić mentioned, however, this law was made to bring all the sublegal acts that would be adopted under this law as transparently as possible, as much pain as possible for all those involved in the processes. As you have noticed, we are quite active by the Ministry of Environment and Energy in terms of energy law and we are confident that after this law has been passed in this esteemed House we will bring all sublaws in time and begin to apply them. There we absolutely agree in the Government that it is clear that all the laws that are passed and applied are necessary. And as for Mr. Orepic's remarks that the government was delegating regulations with a legal power sign, I find it only odd that he forgot that he voted in favour of such a regulation in 2016 when he was minister in the government. So it would be good if we could discuss a little bit of what we're doing ourselves. As regards the balance of the system and that the system costs and that the crops pay nothing, renewables pay all that they have to pay under the law and clearly by the basis of the new law and the introduction of an eco-balance sheet group clearly that refurbishments through the eco-balance sheet group will have to pay membership fees in the eco-balance sheet group, or by megawatt, of a certain amount which will clearly serve to settle the costs that will be incurred for the purpose of balancing. As far as we're concerned, it's a law that makes losses. I would disagree because if we talk about a regulated ransom, more than 75% of that ransom is bought by HEP. As far as I know, and you all know that HEP has been doing business with profit for many years, and this is a great gain which is good for the Republic of Croatia, and it is clear that the government's decision to keep the system of collapse of the incentive system by regulation. Because as you know we were last year in a situation that HROT... Losses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? For not making decisions from the previous administration. It means by making a decision to make compensation for renewables at the level of those that are sustainable, the system has been slowly consolidated and it does not make such a loss but will also succeed in fulfilling all its contractual obligations that are agreed upon. And what is important to note by this law we introduce means a new premium system, i.e.... for the new premium system where what you are all in the parliamentary debate is actually going to happen is that with the same amount of charge and compensation for renewable energy sources, more megawatts are encouraged. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this will certainly happen with a new premium system, which, as a respected representative from the HDZ Club, noticed that whatever there was more renewable sources, these incentives were smaller. This will continue to be the tendency that incentives will be smaller, and this is certainly the number of renewables higher because the fact that Croatia, the EU, the whole world has defined the Paris Agreement as a low carbon society and a reduction of greenhouse gases and everything else. All of us here must be clear that, simply that the renewable sources and targets that the Republic of Croatia has already achieved and that is 28.3% in total energy consumption are the thing that is the future and we as a state have to go in that direction but that system has to be sustainable. This law is a guarantee that it will be sustainable. It is clear that if there are any more finesse that we have to fix, we will fix between the two readings and hope that the final bill will be passed and by those clubs that are now, they have chosen not to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93723	Thank you. We have a replica on your exhibit. A colleague, Davor Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93724	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, it is good that HEP is operating with profit, it is bad that HROTE is not able to finance this system which is agreed on on the basis of the quotas that have been allocated because of these contracts that have been inherited from business negatively, i.e. it is not possible for us to finance this system in a transparent manner. We are not the government to regulate this regulation, but it could have been resolved by now in the last three years and through the legal framework and this House to be informed about it. If you are not already going to the assembly bar that the regulation comes to debate on the parent board so that we have the information in which it is regulated and that this situation that households get the possibility of investing and producing electricity on their... And we open the entrepreneurs with our own drives, not to turn off the last lamp in the middle of the Vinkovci. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93725	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93726	Dear Parliamentarian Vlaovic, it is true that HEP is dealing with a loss and it is true that HROTE is now not a loss. So he's been for inaction and not making a decision before, now he's not, HROT absolutely all of his obligations are being reconciled. And as for this last one you mentioned. It is true that this law will allow citizens in a easier and more efficient and cheaper way to come into a position to have their own small power plants, whether solar or other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93727	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and Highly Effective Cogeneration, First Reading, P.Z. No. 419. And we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93728	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and highly efficient cogeneration, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 419, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and Highly Effective Cogeneration and Others will be adopted, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most votes, 79 for, 43 abstentions and 2 votes against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93729	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Proposal for a housing law in assisted areas, first reading, P.Z. No. 411; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Area, i.e. Regional Self-Government, Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is Secretary of State of State for Reconstruction and Housing Mr. Nikola Mažar, who will give an opening explanation. Here you go, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93730	.../The speaker excluded:/... the esteemed Madam MPs, gentlemen of the MPs. Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Residential Care on the occasion of the first reading of the House Care Act in assisted areas. The aim of the adoption of housing laws in assisted areas is to establish an effective, efficient and operational system of measures and activities that will result in the promotion of the return, remnant and settlement of the population in these areas. In accordance with the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, the new indexation of developmental difficulties with assisted areas in 4 groups will deal with exactly housing in assisted areas and will be regulated by all housing models. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. This law extends both the competence and the part-time work of the central state office from the current 185 units of local self-government to a total of 333 units of local self-government, i.e. to two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia and thus extends the competence by 80%. The housing law in assisted areas regulates the territorial jurisdiction of residential care, housing models, conditions and procedures for the establishment of housing rights, the process of acquisition of ownership of gift and purchase, management and real estate management, exceptional housing, the provision of special groups of residents, implementation of operational programmes, strategies, conclusions and decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and inter-resorship cooperation, as well as cooperation with local self-government units. Targeted groups of application of this law and its sublaws are families in need of housing, professional and educated staff. For the first time, we're going to introduce that exactly the personnel apartments get the opportunity to buy what wasn't possible so far. Socially the most vulnerable groups of the population, as well as victims of domestic violence, as well as families who, due to extraordinary circumstances, such as floods, fires, gliding sites, were left without the only real estate conditional on housing. The law on housing in assisted areas can be obtained by renting, giving or buying state-owned housing units, as well as by offering construction material for renovation, upgrade, upgrade, reconstruction or construction of a family house owned by users or owned by the Republic of Croatia. This bill provides for a number of benefits, among other things, an increase in financial support for the beneficiaries of the building material donation model of 25% of the net value of the building material, i.e. with the current law, that amount was 15 000 kuna when the works are completed within the deadline, and now it will be 25% of the net value if the material value is 160 000 kuna, the person will receive 40,000 kuna after the material is installed. Also, by proposing this law, the exceptional amount of rent for apartments in the first group of assisted areas would be 20% of the amount of the prescribed protected rent of 2 kuna 70 lime per metre square metre, which would be 54 lime per metre square metre. Also for family homes for the first, second and third groups of assisted areas, this would amount to 1 kuna. In addition, the application of this law will also allow for the maximum use of the RS housing fund, since it prescribes an extremely possible and greater deviation from the prescribed area in places where the central state office does not have a family home or apartment of the prescribed residential area. In relation to the Law on Areas of Special State Care, this law is much more favourable for users, as the procedure of housing care and the implementation of established law has been largely simplified and a number of deadlines have been shortened. The deadlines within which applications for residential care are submitted, deadlines setting out the lists of championships, deadlines within which the executive lists must be entered, the deadline after the expiry of which a housing unit can be purchased, the time limit in which the user with which the contract on the purchase of a housing unit is concluded cannot be estranged without the consent of the Central State Office, i.e. the withdrawal of the note from the same. For the purpose of more adequate and transparent housing planning, the Central State Office shall, by 31 December of the current year, adopt an initial housing plan according to housing models and units of local self-government, and the annual housing plan shall be submitted by 15 April of the current year to the offices of the State Administration by county at the latest. The law regulates and implements operational programmes, strategies, conclusions and decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of which the central state office will adopt annual programmes establishing the models and criteria of housing and improving living conditions by equipping the most essential items of the household. The law also provides for conditions for more effective and efficient inter-resorship cooperation of the central state office with other authorities of the state administration, but also with units of local self-government to prepare, organise and implement joint housing programmes in which demographic development will be encouraged and promoted, and put into operation all those state assets that have been standing either abandoned or not used for all these years. We consider housing to be one of the key measures of demographic revitalisation, which will also contribute to the even development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia. The funds for the implementation of the housing law in the assisted areas are secured in the positions of the financial plan of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care amounting to 226 million 726 thousand 903 kuna, i.e. with donations from the international community amounting to 246 million 826 thousand and 903 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93731	Thank you very much. We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first replica is a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93732	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So last week we had a law on assisted areas, and there it was stated that 304 units of local self-government are the ones that are covered by this law and the law, and in this law you state 336 units of local self-government. What is the difference, and what is the difference? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93733	Replica number two, colleague Panenic Tomislav.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93734	Dear Secretary of State, two would, one actually comment and one question. First it refers to the assignment of construction material. We're witnessing that the small environments have been affected, for example. Most of my municipality, or others, are going to the cities, and will go to the city of Vukovar, will go to the suburbs of Vinkovci, Mirkovce, for the same material there are building facilities. But we, in fact, who should be pleased that our residents get, are eventually relocated. This was the result of a measure that was in the past tense. And another question you're familiar with is the case of buildings, the maintenance of buildings that are in your jurisdiction especially in the city of Ilock, that case I know, there's probably still somewhere where there's unsettled property-owned relationships building management is difficult and really people live there in very difficult conditions. Something should be done to actually manage buildings and invest in the building itself gets the real sense that it's managed as if it's private property regardless of what is now state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93735	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? She's a colleague of Maria Jelkovac's. And I'm sorry. We got another one. Here you go, pal Vlaovic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93736	Thank you, Vice President, I've picked up the plate in time for you to see. Dear Secretary of State, we all care for housing in areas, assisted areas. I know the story of the people around Okucana, Pacrac and Lipik who have been waiting for years for this law so they can settle their housing issues. And my question to you, how is it possible that 6,000 applications were filed annually and only 10% were solved? In other words, how are you going to solve this now when you get a commitment to another 181 unit of local self-government in total 336, 80% increase the coverage of your service, the Central Office of the State? Do you have the capacity for that? So these people deserve to be resolved immediately, not only 10% solved out of 6,000. And another illogicality as part of the announcement that the Office of State Administration from 1.1 to year will cross the county, and you here state that the requests will be submitted to the Offices of State Administration in the county, so please coordinate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93737	Thank you. Whether or not the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it. My colleague Maria Jelkovac, Tulio Demetlika or Branko Juričev Martinchev? If not, then we open the debate. The first debate is on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club, a colleague of Davor Loncar's. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93738	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues. As for the new Bill on Housing in Supported Areas, I must say that this is a sequence that has lasted since the reconstruction of the units of local administration, i.e. since the first Law on Reconstruction adopted in April 96. The emphasis itself on special state care speaks enough about the areas of the Republic of Croatia. This proposal would continue to implement housing where undeveloped areas would develop, where all would be done to maintain a younger population through demographic recovery and social assistance. In addition to this Law, the economy should certainly be developed because it is the basis for the survival and development of assisted areas that should reach levels of other developed environments that have optimal conditions for normal life. How we have identified areas with developed difficulties under the Law on Regulatory Development and the Law on Housing Management of Opinions I am convinced that this proposal will regulate and strengthen housing in assisted areas. The aim of this law is to achieve a system of measures and activities concerning the return and survival of the population in areas of special state concern. Furthermore, in order to implement all this, there must be co-operation between the central and local authorities through a programme of measures and incentives in order to invest in the provision of financing to the public economic needs to improve the development of assisted environments. The regional development of the Republic of Croatia is very important for the present and future in promoting the quality of life in assisted areas. They must have central government support through the local administration unit programme. It is important to point out that this bill will extend housing to several units of local administration. Which says the promoter knows the way and the way to a more even development of the Republic of Croatia. To continue this state has long ago established the Central State Office as a body tasked with monitoring and participating in organised incentives through a housing programme throughout the Republic of Croatia. The central office through terms and rights provides natural persons with the possibility of renting a house or an apartment, offering land, offering building material for building or reconstructing a house and offering houses or apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia. The terms and conditions of the right to care shall be specifically stated in the articles of the Bill where the difficult concepts that each individual should fulfil are exclusively written in order to have the right to be useful and useful for housing resolution in assisted areas. The differences themselves exist from case to case, which this proposal recognized and accelerated the procedure in relation to the previous situation. Furthermore, the central state office has an obligation to be an operational body whose responsibility is to establish the models and criteria of housing care and improvement of living conditions. It certainly needs to be stressed, and I expect that the funds will increase, that the criteria in relation to the current law will be much simpler because the meaning must be development and less undeveloped areas. What I have to put an emphasis on is a development index that should not, to this extent, be the main factor in encouraging investment in supporting this area for housing. The reason why it is no matter where anyone is if they have problems with living care is because I need to help him and meet him to finally get rid of it. From the very deadlines of submission, I propose that this be a longer period of time, all due to the tromping of institutions of which an individual should receive the prescribed documentation for the submission of applications. The HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93739	Thank you. We're moving forward with the debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. The next one is counterpart Sonja Cikotic from the Independent Lists Bridges Club. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93740	We have colleagues and colleagues today before us a proposal for a housing law in assisted areas. All of Croatia needs to be revitalised. Supported areas are rural areas affected by the high eviction rate, which according to the urban environments, that is, beyond Croatia. Low economic activity characterizes the area. If we look at the structure, it's about third-year citizens. Yesterday, or last week, we had a debate on the Law on Supported Areas, which also regulates this area, which provides 85 million kuna for 304 units of local self-government. This would be about 200 thousand kuna so that any other intervention in these areas, and this law certainly intervenes in an area of assisted interest means good. Furthermore, when we talk about assisted areas, we have available data from last year under the House Loan Subsidisation Act only 1.25% of requests come from the first and second groups and only 6.37% of requests came from the third and fourth groups. Data on the number of closed schools actually say that 6 of them are in these areas this year, while 117 schools are not enrolled any new students. So we don't have first grade. With this condition, measures are necessary for the economic recovery of these areas, and this law will certainly contribute to at least helping citizens who want to settle there and use the property at our disposal. This law in the Republic of Croatia has 555 units of local self-government. These 336 fall under assisted areas or more than 60% of local self-government units in Croatia have economic and social difficulties that require intervention in the area of housing. The state budget has already provided 101 million kuna funds for the implementation of this law, which is enough for about 6 thousand annual housing claims, which makes up 16 thousand 800 kuna per individual request. We also need to know that these partial solutions do not lead to revitalisation in that economic and active sense, i.e. we would like to point out here that we need one whole housing policy in the Republic of Croatia to contribute to the ultimate goal, which is the economic, social and demographic recovery of the assisted areas. Building policy continues to be implemented without European funds. It is only at the end of this year that we say that we will have an energy recovery that made significant resources in areas of special state concern that they had over, meaning 80% co-financing of energy recovery. It's been missing for the last two years. As regards certain provisions, I would like to say in Article 2 e) the term staff is defined. As persons of certain professions and interest for whose work there is a shown need for data from the Croatian Employment Service. Furthermore, whether one municipality needs a top doctor or an IT teacher who would work for example in a home of health or a school for life is resolved through Articles 42 and 43 because it is precisely the dwellings and houses intended for persons in the bodies of the state administration and the administrative bodies of the local self-government unit. State administration and local administration have through this law taken care of their employees, and other staff actually have to wait for them to be recognized by the Croatian Employment Service which, apart from defining the concept of staff, is not mentioned anywhere else. We therefore believe that this part of the provision should be intervened until the second reading. It is necessary to further protect applicants from the discretionary assessment of civil servants because Article 9(4) defines that the rights laid down in this Act cannot be exercised by the applicant unless, without prejudice to the call of the competent authority, the proposed residential unit of state ownership and the similar solution is found in Articles 22 and 23 of this Act. More detailed arrangements should be given to the Commission's work on assessing the status of housing units, their powers as well as restrictions. It is also unclear why the application for housing is submitted during the period from January 1st to January 31st, not throughout the year, which would certainly increase the effectiveness of the work of officials to work on resolving housing requirements. It is also necessary to intervene in the text of the law until the second reading. However, as in similar laws, the main impact on the implementation of who will eventually get a state apartment, house or construction material falls on the Government, which sets out the criteria for the score of applications for housing, as well as that the Government will set the sale price for the family house or apartment. In other words, the government will calculate which social group it will go to without citing any professional criteria that would protect it from the will of the proposings. It is necessary to add the criteria to the law. As set out in Article 25, where the central state office conducts housing in areas where it does not have real estate, they will be taken over by agreement to the management and management of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia to which other state authorities manage and the owners of other state bodies, and the property owned by other legal entities will be taken over by the Republic of Croatia by appropriate legal work. It is necessary to further protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia from possible abuses in the acquisition of property owned by other legal persons through appropriate legal transactions by introducing provisions on the prevention of conflicts of interest, public participation, public competition, etc. procedures to prevent corruption of clientelism and non-transparentity. Given that economic recovery is necessary to ensure that citizens are detained in assisted areas, because I do not know how we will stimulate economic activity if there are no citizens there, we propose to reconsider in Article. 37. percent of the funds for the construction material and that the proposed 25% rises to 80% of the value of construction material to stimulate additional young families to settle these areas. A bridge of independent lists believes that a new law on housing in assisted areas is needed, but this proposal needs to be significantly improved and a further discussion with experts is needed, but also citizens who live or wish to live with their families in assisted areas to address their housing issue, which is certainly a good way to address demographic, social and economic difficulties in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93741	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of SDSS Representatives' Club, counterpart Boris Milosevic. Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93742	Honorable secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The matter of this law has changed for more than 20 years has evolved slowly since housing, and this is the first time in over 20 years that there is a housing provision that the matter of housing has received its own special law. It was always under the Law on Areas of Special State Care along with other elements, and now we have, therefore, a law relating only to that matter. This bill is actually a law for the future, it brings some solutions and measures towards the future, but it suffers from some old chronic diseases that are actually being dragged out of the old legal solutions, which in practice, as in perhaps some proposed solutions. For a while, I was also working on providing free legal assistance to people who were looking for housing, and it was a psychologically burdensome job that puts a lot of pressure on these people, and it also burdened me who was trying to help them because it took a lot of effort and effort to get these people to actually get something for themselves, to get a house, an apartment, actually a roof over their head after a number of social injustices. This bill of law, as I said, is turned to the future, but I would like to remind you of some of these old pains, primarily of the issue of renewal that has not been resolved yet, so we have several hundred more items of restoration waiting for their solution. I'm warning you because it's actually almost 15 years old now that the deadline for applying for renewal has expired, so someone submitted a renewal request more than 15 years ago, and the demands are not complete, and then it's actually hard to talk about some systematic solutions when someone waits 15 years and over for a justifiable, legitimately waiting for the solution of their request. In fact, then measures some become pointless. Even worse, when we have situations where someone has been waiting for more than 20 years to move into a house that exists but is busy, someone has allowed himself to take up and, despite the judgments of power, we have cases that in one case the Dušanka of Kistanj cannot return to her house because she is busy even though there are judicial judgments in her favour although she is therefore, the owner of the house, although she wants to return to her house still cannot do so. Or, for example, the housing of former tenant rights holders where the original plan was for them all to be resolved by 2008 somewhere, so 10 years ago. And unfortunately, all of their demands are not solved by all these cases of former tenants, and we will wait years and years to get rid of them. These are some old debts, a pain that will torment and the application of the new law is listed in the assessment of the state of this bill, because the promoter himself says that more than 6,000 housing claims per year, and that some 10% should be resolved and we have situations that some users actually go from the list to the list all year round. So that's one big problem that is basically operational in applying the new law should try to solve. I don't know how much of this will work, but I think that this background is legal good with certain improvements might be even better, but the application will actually show the full effectiveness of this law. What is commendable is to plan to expand the range of users. It is also commendable that territorial expansion is planned to be more than 150 units of local self-government, but as I said, everything depends on implementation. Because if we want to achieve the main goal, and the main objective here is clearly indicated, which is to establish an efficient and operational housing system to result in the return, survival and settlement of the population. Then I think there are two key things that are not related to the law itself, which are not contained in the legal solution itself, and that is the question of money, therefore, budget separation. If there is no money, if the state is not clear after the law is passed, it shows its political will through the budget then this law remains a dead letter on paper, with all the goodwill and the proposings and us here who will propose some improvements in this legal text. The other thing that's important for law enforcement is the system of score requests. Therefore, the requirement-fixing system must be fair and balanced. He can't discriminate on anyone, he can't discriminate on anyone. We can give certain groups a social advantage which is normal and it can be subject to change depending on the moment, depending on the areas. However, even when given priority, others must not be discriminated against, and these are, in my opinion, two key moments. So the money that stands out and the credit system, if it doesn't work then even the best legal solution here won't work. We'll actually have a lot of dissatisfaction, we'll actually have injustice, and we'll have a situation where we here in the Parliament are going to call, and we'll complain and grizzly about the application of the law in practice. Anyway, I think this proposal is a good basis for discussion. I would specifically suggest some legal solutions that might be found in the legal text according to my assessment be better for the very application of the law. I therefore believe that, in fact, the initial housing plan itself will indicate how many housing units or packages of construction material will be allocated to individual municipalities. In fact, it would be very good to have this initial plan as well as a final plan in order for users who want to apply for housing to take care of themselves somewhere in a municipality or city to know whether it makes sense to apply or not, not to file a request and that we do not know, 5 hundred demands and that we have 2 apartments, 2 houses and 10 packages of construction material and then we actually have a very large administrative business of state administration that has to review all the requirements, which must make an assessment, which must review the documentation, look for additions. So, a lot of work, and we already know in advance that I don't know, 490 requests won't get that. I'm not saying it's easy to implement, but I think we should think about this model and that the requirements, that the requirements would be less and then they'd be easier, faster and better solved. With regard to the restrictions on the sale of real estate that someone got from housing and buying, I think. My personal thinking and suggestion is to remove the 3-year ban on selling. I think if there has to be a ban, make it as short as possible. Maybe a year? But I find it unnecessary. If someone wants to sell it he'll do it. Maybe in some way we're actually making people break the law, because I'm saying the one who decided to sell it will do, so either after 3 years, either after 5 years, right now or somehow with a delay. I think you should consider erasing that ban. Another thing I would like to point out is that the applicant is considering, and this is a question of cancelling the lease contract due to non-inhabitation in a residential facility for more than 6 months. It's probably in practice a common case. We have situations that a number of citizens living in these areas are now assisted in areas of special state concern that go to seasonal affairs and are, in fact, temporarily at sea and are doing seasonal affairs and can therefore be helped for more than 6 months that are not in the house they have been given housing care, or the situation especially with older citizens who go to treatment or go to their relatives, in their children during the winter and there are no therefore in the house where they are taken care of, which can also lead to the situation to initiate the procedure to cancel the lease contract for them as well. I'm not saying that this measure should not exist. It's supposed to exist. However, I think it is necessary to specify it, rather better arranged so as not to have the secretary of state, because the Secretary of State, according to the proposed solution, makes a decision, would not be accused of doing so on a voluntary basis, so as not to be accused of discrimination, of doing so for political reasons. I have confidence in the current leadership of the central state office, but I'm saying it's today. The question is what will be and who will be tomorrow, and so we don't write the law for today, but we write it and plan for some lengthy period of time. Another thing I think is that it is not worth saying and that the promoter is considering giving. So in the legal text there is a provision that regulates the donation of houses or apartments, that's something that's left for me from the old legal solutions. I think the promoter should consider whether these categories that have the right to donate the house or apartment are actually already covered. Would it possibly be a legal solution to put them in transitional and final provisions that all those who have the right to donate an apartment or a house will get, the state will give them an apartment or a house according to the provisions of this law, because I am saying somehow to me that all those who have acquired the right to donate, or who might be given it, that they have acquired it, that only it is the right to determine and that the state can donate to them an apartment or a house they have the right to. And I believe, for that reason, that this legal text should not be burdened by that provision. As for the personnel apartments that are very important for each municipality and city, I think it would be good to consider a legal solution where the final decision on the allocation of staff accommodations will be given to the representative body, i.e. the municipal or city council. In my view, two goals are achieved, less is the possibility of abuse. The mayors and the mayors are not under pressure to make the decision of the personnel housing procedure, the decisions of the staff housing company would be more transparent and transparent, therefore, the municipal chiefs and mayors would not be accused of having a political advantage and of taking care of someone who did not deserve it but would be discussed on the Municipal Council and on the Municipal Council. In the end, I'd just like to mention one little thing, therefore, that concerns the process of determining the right to housing. Therefore, applicants of the application, i.e. requests for housing, are obliged to submit a conviction of residences and residences in the last 15 years from the submission of the application. I hope, therefore, that this belief that essentially the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing will also accept the certificates that will be printed from the E-Citizen System, so that it will be easier for all those who use this system and that citizens are encouraged to collect documentation from that system, so that they will accept it, perhaps even it would be good to point out in the legal text or in an explanation that it is said to accept certificates from that e-system. So here I will support on behalf of the Club this first legal text in the first reading, but I hope that the proposings will consider my remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93743	Thank you, fellow Milosevic. We're continuing on behalf of the Representatives' Club. Next up is a colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash on behalf of the GLASS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go, fellow Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93744	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the first reading of the House Care Act in assisted areas. Well, a few things first. What we had the opportunity to listen to, or hear from the media in terms of reorganising the work of certain agencies, individual offices and individual ministries, is that the State Office for Housing will unite with the Real estate Agency in a single office. Whether that's the way it's gonna be or not we're gonna see it at the end of the year. Since this law is in the first reading if the second reading is right behind it by the end of the year, we will have to change it and supplement it because some responsibilities and some names and certain things will change, then perhaps the advice is to wait with the second reading, so that we do not have to have some laws in the parliamentary debate that we will have just to increase the number of discussions. So that would be quite clever and wise enough that if it were so that the second reading came back, even though with the new year it would really be that announcement that we would do this and the technical things the way we should do it. When it comes to legislation and when it comes to the opportunities that come from these laws, then here I read three things that need to be read by this law. And that is, to enable our fellow citizens in assisted areas of return, stay and new settlement. These are the three objectives of the law to be achieved by this law. So, that those who have gone have security for their return and the conditions for return. That those in those areas have the elements and conditions for their stay. And the third topic is that we're actually very reluctant to talk, but we have to start talking, our employers and employers say that already this year, they need 50,000 new jobs that have remained empty because there are simply not enough people to hire. All those who speak in favour of it say that the next year will be a need for 100,000 new jobs. We simply must become a country that is not only a friend to our fellow citizens, and for now, unfortunately, we must also be a country that is a friend to someone who will come here. So what the state has to do through its programme, through its work plan to secure it is to secure a job. And the second topic is trying to secure an apartment. So try to secure a safe place where a man can live. It can be a safe place of life you can have an apartment that you own, but it can also be a rental apartment. We are, the Croats are traditionally afraid of this rental and somehow related to the lease do not dare this way of care although I think it is extremely good and that it is one of the opportunities for you to have the ability of a workforce that can cross from one area to another Croatia. The Secretary of State, therefore, decided not to respond to the remarks, or replicas that we gave to his opening presentation, and I am interested in what is the discrepancy between the 336 units of local self-government to which this law applies in relation to the 304 units of local self-government, we have 555 plus 556 is the City of Zagreb which has the status of one and the other, and then I often say 556, what happened here and why is that? We at the GLASS and HSU Club appreciate that such a law is needed, however, before such a law should be some whole country's housing policy, but, however, about the country's entire housing policy, we somehow don't dare to do this barata, and we don't dare do an analysis and say what it is. Likewise, this law gives us an impression before the summer break, the prime minister invited ministers and state secretarys and said that they had to fabricate a certain amount of law and I have a feeling that in this law it came about, that what happened at that point was agreed as a law, did all those formal things and went out because he doesn't give answers to certain things and he has to give answers to some things. One of the things is the subject of real estate donation. So you have to have a policy that real estate management policies have to decide what you want. If you want state-owned property, I mean central state. Do you want property owned by local self-government units? I'm one of those who often speaks from this pay phone about decentralisation and if we want real decentralisation then real estate especially when it comes to housing, should be owned by local self-government units. Regardless of all the minuses and pluses, I am absolutely convinced that units of local self-government can be faster, more operational, better tampered with and thus satisfy that one provision defined here in Article 42, that is, Article 43 of the Law to be interesting for certain staff. And while I am absolutely convinced that they must continue to be owned by units of local self-government in a way that you can get in a particular area of the doctor to succeed in getting for your medical clinic you have, to manage to get a teacher where we show that we have something more that we still have children who go to those schools. So it's one of the elements of decentralisation and it's one of the elements that should be read out of this law, and we're not reading it all the way. We're on one side, so it's really me I'd say we have Olympic winners and world champions in a series of sports which is absolutely kind of unreasonable that so few people manage to give, but absolutely we're world champions in the next, on the one hand we're going to declare ourselves to decentralisation, on the other hand we're going to put everything to the central state that she manages everything. It absolutely takes decentralisation to transfer assets, transfer funds and give opportunities to manage someone. One who is unable to manage alone will solve the problem. And there's not one law that's been coming lately, and we're not saying that we're passing that law because of demographic renewal and we're not saying that there's going to be a new system of e-systems. Demographic recovery doesn't happen on its own. Demographic recovery, look at me, are often a role model for Scandinavian countries, so Scandinavian countries since the time they decided, decided to set a series of measures. At least they were social measures. There were a series of other measures where employment measures were, measures to make life easier for young people. The first results were seen over 30 years. You won't even see us before. It's just not possible to see each other before. But what we need and what's an alarming state, which is behind the workforce, which will be seen next year. So, we get by demographic measures we're ready to say everything. The point of this law is to allow people to stay in these areas and allow some to repopulate. Returns will happen or will not happen, but this law will not allow for that return. The same way when we talk about e, we swear on e-citizens, we swear on e-plans. However, every resistor and every ministry has its own system that is incompatible with each other, and on the one hand we swear to it, and on the other hand it is quick paper. We have to decide what we want, whether we want a mountain of paper or whether we want an e-system. Let's get back to the donation story. So that gifting story is a story that is provided by Article 31. It's said that the user who gets the donated apartment or family house is ten years unable to alienate. And you also have a further provision of Article 48 where it speaks of tax relief. When it came to tax laws, when the first set of tax laws went, then Minister Maric explained there on several occasions why there could be no real estate tax 0, that it makes it impossible for the European Union, that it was absolutely impossible, that it was not in line because there were a number of amendments that asked for the purchase of the first real estate to remain 0, and to buy further 5, so we reduced to 4, tomorrow there would be a debate on 3. Here, in Article 48, it is said that in these cases the property tax is 0. Now, that's what I'm curious about how it's going to be an explanation of how it's in line with the European Union directives, so it's going to be interesting to explain it. But we need to know what we want. There's one whole country policy that, I get absolutely acceptable that the country's policy that says I want people to come to that area. It's an area devastated by people, I have a need for people to come, I have a need because there's work to do. I have no one to hire, and we'll donate real estate. But then there must be politics, and then we have to, and I don't care what he's going to do with that real estate, but it's got to be one policy, one systematic country policy where we know if we want to be attractive because of the real estate we have. Do we want to, so that's one whole, and we're just like that a little bit. This is one of the breaking moments and from this law I read it, so the Croatian state right now has a need we have 50,000, I'm saying what employers, unfulfilled jobs say. All summer long, those who do tourism cried out and said no, my people have no one to work with. And that's a fact there's no one to work with. And now imagine a situation where you get an entrepreneur who's something on these 304 come on I'm going to base myself on 304 units of local self-government by a series of measures wants to build a factory, for that factory he needs 20 workers. If the local self-government unit is going to tell him we're going to provide you with an apartment for those 20 people, we're going to give you the possibility of renting or you're going to pay rent so that it's free of charge, that's what some other countries do. Some other countries become attractive, pay well, and become attractive because they resolve the housing issue. So that's a series of measures that should be. In this law we want a little bit like this and a little bit like that. He should be bold in some things, and in some things he should be determined. And we don't have to slave some old stuff. We need to know what we want. When we know what we want, it'll be a little easier for us, so I'll go back to what we first need to know if we're going to put the Real estate transport agency and the housing office in one body. Well, when we know that, maybe some processes will be simpler for us. But then we come and now we can make the laws and the law can be good, it can be us all can say super I have just one good, good-looking law and get to real life. In the real life of 6,000 items, 10% were solved annually. In real life, I heard from a family who came back from Zagreb, who went to live in the area where they came from, I'm not going to speak from the area are other constituencies, so they came to me, and they have six children. And they called the State Administration Office with a request for construction material because they needed a house that he had inherited from his parents to rebuild. And they couldn't get it, they couldn't get anyone to answer the phone first for six months, then they couldn't get it done for two years. At one point I even helped, it would have been better if I hadn't helped them, and then only that gentleman answered, we went to Germany, I went, the children stayed in Zagreb because two already went to high school, the woman left, we all went and we didn't need the material that I asked for anymore. So, we at the GLASS Club and HSU won't support this law in our first reading for the simple reason why this law doesn't solve the problem we have, there's neither determination nor the idea of getting rid of it, there's no understanding of how to try to help, or what policy it is in assisted areas, if by the second reading, we decide to listen to what we're talking about, so in that sense something changes us in the GLASS and HSU Club we never have a problem or support what we appreciate is good. But don't do the law to make them work. Let's really know in these laws what we want and really let this country and its units of local self-government be its mother to its citizens, not their stepmother as it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93745	Thank you, too. Now in front of the Club of National Minority Representatives, fellow respected representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93746	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Hungarian, with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Finally, on the agenda, we have a full proposal for a housing law in assisted areas after more than a year of negotiations and agreements. How to integrate into the law those most endangered to whom we have so far, despite capacity and empty space, not helped. I am pleased that one year after the adoption of the operational programmes for national minorities, one of the planned activities has also received its legal basis for the implementation of this Article. 41st of which we have worked together for a very long time, which provides that the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing will implement operational programmes, strategies, conclusions and decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from its jurisdiction. Until now, we have had the good will of our State Secretary, Mr. Hungarian, to launch housing projects of members of the Roma national minority who live throughout the Republic of Croatia under inhumane conditions, and now we will see how much we care about the strategic documents being carried out when we create a legal basis for them. It is, therefore, the housing of only those most endangered who live in extremely difficult conditions without electricity, without water, without basic infrastructure, and the extremely difficult social situation which, unfortunately, is very much. I am pleased that the government has recognised the fact that this law must be implemented beyond the scope of this law, or space under special national care. I point out that this is very important because we finally set out to prevent and eliminate inequality in a way that eliminates the causes of this inequality. We are all aware that neither educational or integration programmes can function as long as a person does not have basic living conditions, basic infrastructure and the possibility of minimum living conditions. In particular, we predict that in most cases those most at risk will need to intervene with the competent institutions on existing facilities and the conditions currently in place. So far, operational programmes and strategies are projecting much more than that. But as I often point out, it is enough to look at one isolated settlement to conclude that the problem is multilayered, and that we cannot look at education separately from the conditions of life. And the possibility of employment in relation to the availability of basic communication routes that are impossible without electricity, Internet and clean water. Thus, by intervention into this law, it tries to get into the very core of the problem and make the shifts that people will feel and that will soon improve their living conditions and the possibility of changing their status on the basis of equality. Uniting living conditions in a way that all citizens have the right to a decent life is a long-term project that we have to implement to avoid the situations we see in the media, which is an increase in ways, the use of intoxicating drugs and other forms of deviating behavior that violate both human and international relations. It recognises the needs of the people at risk without generalisation and systematic approach to solving the problem of enabling the most vulnerable to progress is a project that is of interest to the state, and especially to the people who go deeper into the vicious cycle of exclusion. This law will allow us to provide housing with the most vulnerable or to re-save their facilities or to allow them access to basic human needs through the purchase of the necessary equipment, the infrastructure that every urbanized settlement has. For years we have implemented these and similar projects for refugees and returnees, and it is time to include in this process the most endangered citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are natives in these areas, and so far have not gained the conditions for normal life. In 70 settlements that are below each level we want to move life in a way that makes these settlements attractive to the majority population, not in a way that separates Roma living there for decades or centuries. I hope that the Government, for the implementation of this part of the operational programme, will provide the funds in due time, and that we will unanimously adopt the proposal for this law as soon as possible. Once again, I would like to thank the Secretary of State Mr. Hungarian and his associates for the engagement and results we have achieved and to note that we expect the Government to take all necessary support to implement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93747	Thank you, too. In front of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformists and Solidarity, Reformists and Independent Representatives Mr Darinko Dumbovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93748	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretaries with associates, colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. Today, I am particularly proud of the fact that this bill addresses the issue of a group of citizens who have moved to the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the period from 1995 to 2000, who have so far not solved the housing issue adequately with civilizational frameworks and normatives. We are talking here about Croatian citizens who left Bosnia and Herzegovina, settled mainly in Sisak-Moslavina County, and in the town of Petrinja the problem of this group of immigrants is the biggest and most pronounced, but with this legal intervention they were prevented from acquiring ownership of state property. To remind you, they are all located in Benkovac, Drniš, Glina, Gospić, Croatia Kostanica, Knin, Karin, Gornji Lipik, Novska, Obrovac, Otocac, Pakrac, Petrinja, Slunj and in Vukovar-Srijem County and Osijek-Baranja County were unable to achieve the donation of state property that had been abolished as a right 15 years ago. Until 2003, those who lived in the facility for 10 years were able to gain ownership of the state property by giving, and at that time this category of users had already moved to those areas. However, a new 2003 government regulation of the Republic of Croatia completely abolished the possibility of donation. The adoption of a new Law on areas of special state care in 2008 introduced the possibility of donation of state property except in the listed settlements of units of regional self-government, and such a legal solution is now in force. In view of all of this, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live in these areas that the legal solution excludes from the way they acquire ownership by giving as possible to housing users in other areas of the Republic of Croatia, believe that they are discriminated precisely in these areas of housing, and based on their social status and social background. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in order to assess the legality of the provision of the Law on areas of special state care proceedings before... The constitutional court has suspended the new law of the proposal. I will continue to try to look back at certain other elements of the proposed law. It is important to change the decision-making process on the right to housing, which, unfortunately, will not lead to an accelerated settlement of the housing issue and raise doubts about the achievement of the legal purpose. If we translate this into concrete measures in practice, it will happen that a number of applicants can wait for many years on the list of championships but without any legal possibility of having an impact on speeding up the resolution of their housing. In fact, the procedure before making and creating the list of championships is not an administrative procedure at all, which leads to legal uncertainty because its legal duration is not prescribed. However, the basic problem lies in the fact that in assisted areas, the procedures of staffing persons who can help with their knowledge and work experience to develop... without resolving the issue of ensuring the housing of young families. The housing measures should have a positive demographic effect. I'm afraid we don't have one. Unfortunately, the data from the dynamics of resolving the procedure which speaks of the resolution of only about 10 per cent of the applications submitted annually is very worrying. This means that all those who applied this year will only be settled in 2028. I can see the assisted areas won't be able to wait that long. Here I also point to a provision in Article 11 of the proposal that prescribes a specific negative assumption of housing. This is not the right of those who have been established as beneficiaries of the right to an organised post-war reconstruction until they restore the market equivalent of what the State has restored. This can be discussed as an improper solution. In fact, the state later went on wartime on the principle of central state solidarity with those who suffered during war horrors. On the other hand, the basis of this law is the return and stay and settlement of the population in undeveloped areas. So it turns out that some and many serious obstacles will be that they were enrolled as family members in the restoration solution. And now they will not be able to rent their newly founded families a suitable and suitable living area for a normal life. I don't think this is about double benefit because it is about two different legal bases and different purposes that they want to achieve with the law on renewal. Or the housing law. It should not be forgotten that the right to rebuild was also prescribed for possible economic facilities, however, the very strategy of returning to an area that was affected by the war was never in the sense that the restoration should be entered into economic facilities but only in the objects where people could live and this was in such a way that people experienced injustice. What we know is that they paid the most the price of one of the most independent layers of society, these are small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who could not possibly get any benefits, not one right so that we know more or less how they went and that in that part of Croatia could not recognise them. It also extends the application of housing models to a new 151 unit of local self-government, which can be difficult to speed up settlement. The promoter, but we also Parliamentarians, must be a little more concerned that the consequences of this legislative amendment must also be the provision of increased means of law enforcement so that its purpose can be fully realised. In the context of all the strategic specifics of the plans and programmes and the principles of equal development of the Republic of Croatia, I must also ask the following question, and it is related to the Article. The 14th Legislative Proposal, which reduces the time limit for applying for housing care? If we want to enable bigger and wider access to our citizens' housing, isn't it in a collapsing process to shorten their participation and I think we're sending them the wrong message? I propose that the legal period be set at least as prescribed by the applicable law until 1 January to 15 February. Different deadlines have been set for the ban on the establishment of the property, i.e. the property purchased in the Republic of Croatia. If the purpose of the law is to remain in the population and settle the ends of the developing Republic of Croatia, I do not see any reason why this period should not be in both cases of acquisition of property equally prescribed and for a long period of time. In addition, for those users who receive construction material from the state for the recovery of buildings or for the construction of a new facility, a 10-year ban is prescribed. Therefore, it would be better to even all users on this issue. What I can say is that we also have positive solutions to this law and proposal, which are precisely the users of family houses and apartments, which we have said about the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, we recognise the right to donate, in areas of special state concern, which is obviously the result of the knowledge of the discriminatory impact of the current legal solution, and the result of many years of efforts by many associations and politicians and in continuity can be said by those minorities who wanted to correct the injustice here through the governments and parliaments that have passed. Here is the regulation, in fact, of a special state procedure for the housing of victims of domestic violence and in cases of crisis situations. The amount of monthly rent for houses is reduced even though it remains a doubt as to why renting is not arranged for all facilities in the same way? Tax relief is introduced so that home care users will not have to pay real estate tax. To conclude, certain doubts presented here need to be reconsidered in order to find suitable better solutions, but the legislative proposal has its positive news. However, this law must be seen in common with the law on assisted areas, and I would like to draw attention again to the fact that 85 million kuna is planned in the State budget for 2019. The 2020 budget also means areas defined as assisted areas. Two-thirds of local self-government units fall into assisted areas, which means that this amount of drops in the sea is against what is all the need. Here we have that information that the Ministry of Regional Development only separates for Vukovar 40 million kunas. I think it's a little bit that should be much more, but it's not right for everyone else not to say at least three times what was supposed to be in these 85 million kunas, it's unacceptable to me. Data from the State Statistics Institute show that significant differences between those local self-governments that are part of assisted areas compared to those that are not generally lagging behind in the indicators the number of inhabitants of assisted areas is reduced by 9.5% over a period of 10 to 12 years. This data is certainly more devastating today and it is a question of trust in a higher percentage. With other shit, we are witnessing that in local self-government certain legal solutions, the possibility of a greater impact on the realization of demographic measures is being denied. Here I cite only one example of the entry into force of the Law on the municipal economy, the central state has provided itself with a reduction in its contribution to the maintenance and development of municipal infrastructure through reduced municipal fees for military buildings and for construction land within military buildings. Now, that's where the question arises and the state at no time wants to give up some of its revenues, but these same revenues should go at the end at the expense of local self-government. To remind ourselves, for the last four years, the cities that had military facilities have been freed from municipal charges with one regulation and we as cities have remained somewhere in the last four without 10 million kunas. And now that we see in the future and the Constitutional Court has annulled that decision and given it for the right and the Association of Cities and County to make it up to us and that this money is indivisible to any right or decision of the state so that local self-government can take those municipal fees. On the third hand, when we look at everything that goes through our cities, which is one of the bigger problems that we have in these barracks a lot of soldiers coming to work and living in other cities. They come by bus, and in their cities they pay income tax 25%, and through us they're just passersby. When you look at what the point is, everything that should be taken care of inhabitably is the safe and residential care of an army that should live in cities where they work if the strategy is that we have what we need in these same cities, it means of strategic interest of military facilities. Here's what's very important and it's one of the big problems. We also have a question of the exile settlement from which we moved it to Dumache in Mali, and we have made a new 40, 50 houses. However, what is the same social impact on us as the city, which is in any case that for the state, it cost Mala Gorica a little bit so I can say over 2 million kunas a year, but now in these new houses they've got some new electricity clocks, for water, for utility fees, and so far they've been paid by the state, and now they're knocking on the mayor's door and it's a new social impact. Not to say that this new exile settlement may also be the destination of some of the refugees who are planning to come to Croatia. This pushes many of the problems local self - administration has to deal with on its own. And I think that we are in some way in this part of being cut off through a pre-centralised state that should just open up that part of funding towards the state, not according to the state, but towards cities and municipalities that are permanently lagging behind in development, but that, in my view, must simply be included in a fiscal story that would give as much independence as possible. And when we look at European funds and everything else, I'm afraid we're going to get into trouble because we're going to have a lot of offers to finance European funds, and we're not going to have for that part of the participation and the burden that's waiting for us. Thank you very much. People waited long enough from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from Kosovo here to get to that part of the truth and everything that should be decided as a Parliament in which day to pass this law and part of it I will accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93749	Thank you. Mr. Stephen Curry in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93750	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Deputy Associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So that's where we heard a few times the expression of demographic measures, reconstruction. I've even said a few times from this pay phone when we look at demographic measures that actually the best demographic policy must be and should be a good and successful economic policy. Of course, that should be considered if it is quite literally, not literally so because then the most advanced countries would have the best demographic indicators, and we know that's not the case. However, our demographic problems are not about ageing, but about evicting, and then we can really concentrate on these economic causes and what simply causes people to leave us. We aim to put a framework, give opportunity on multiple sides, more and ministries, and areas of action. It's one of these. However, it is not in itself if I remain on it a few more measures alone will not bring us anything. We need to be aware of that. This measure, which envisions in its budget somewhere around 100 million kuna, will in itself bring nothing revolutionary to us and no positive trends. Because in order for trends to be measured at all, they have to be longer and in a much, much larger number than we can expect from this law in a year, two or three. So when we talk about everything, then we have to say that there is, of course, the first job, adequately paid work through tax breaks, then we have housing like today's kindergartens, schools, traffic connection, culture, sports, etc. The road, the infrastructure, everything we have to make it possible for people to stay and be happy and satisfied here, or that they can normally live their lives. They don't ask for much. And then this is one of those measures. But by himself, he's not gonna bring us anything, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't have it. Absolutely, yes, but not that statue and don't settle for it. What I'd like here to highlight is a few things that you might even suggest since it's first reading. When we talk about the terms and criteria of Article 7 it is prescribed exactly what can be achieved under this law, so there goes the lease, the donation of land in state property and building materials, the donation of building materials for renovation and construction or the completion of the construction of a family house, the donation of building materials for the construction of a family house on a private property owned by the users and the donation of an uninhabitable family house with building material to arrange it. However, when we look only in finance and then it says that 38 capital donations to citizens and households are donated to packages of construction material of 40 million kunas. and position 42 residential facilities rehabilitation, reconstruction and construction of housing units little less than 47 million kuna. Construction, I don't see any construction here in Article 7, and financials are added to it, although it says recovery, reconstruction, and construction. I also want to know that one of the conditions is that ownership or co-ownership do not have another habitable family house or apartment in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is fine, and even if they do, in Article 10, they say that they will be taken into account if it is 30% less than the living area provided for, and then if they have a four-member family, it is provided that if I do not cheat 50 or 65 squares, then 30% less than 45 squares, if you have less than that then you can still be an acceptable user. But what about families who have inherited the foundation of inheritance, along with several heirs, in co-ownership, whether a family house that has even squares, but they have a ratio of one quarter, a fifth, a half or an eighth, but they can't move in? According to what I'm reading here, they're not alike to apply. And if they sell it, they can't sell it. Furthermore, as a criterion, it is the basic reason for the aided area. In my opinion, not all assisted areas are equal, absolutely not. We know that we have 4 categories of county, the first two are supported and 8 categories of cities and municipalities, the first 4 are supported. In particular, the Osijek-Baranja County of 42 units of local self-government, of 7 towns and 35 municipalities have a status supported by the 38th no Osijek, Našice and Antunovac municipalities. Everyone else has Đakovo and White Manastir, Valpovo, Belišće, Miholjac and some small and richer municipalities. They're all the same. And we actually know they're not. I'd like to, given that you have a classification when we're talking about the development index of the development group that I mentioned, from 1 to 8, and the first 4 are entering the assisted area, that there's a certain ranking that doesn't matter if it's class group 1 or 4 and there's got to be differences, we have to be aware of that because in that way maybe then it really comes where it's supposed to be. But how will he get where he's supposed to? If we have said here in Article 7 where I have stated that it is more or less only about what is state-owned, almost only where you can be provided some help if you have your own land to help you with building materials or renovations in editing. Money for construction or shopping, watch shopping today in Slavonia and Baranja we have a house for sale by municipalities, or by villages as much as you want. How do we get people back there or bring them back? Not with this law. Unless it's the same house or land owned by the state. There's no other way. And then we limit ourselves to where we exist as a state where we have property, of course, where we have the greatest property, in the city, which is logical. There aren't many houses per village owned by state. I believe he does, but I don't think that's the number. So, just by taking that part into account, of course we'd be too little money and much easier to limit ourselves to one part and that's good, to understand and absolutely not say that any of this is bad, we're just looking at how it can be better. That's exactly the part that makes it possible to come back, you have a house of 5, 10, 15 000 euros that are here all over my county and I can't find a buyer. With the housing law on housing, we're not going to do that in any way... Because these houses are not state-owned, if they were then they could be rented, etc. That is, if we're talking about renting again, we're talking about renting a family home or a state-owned apartment, not a private one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what it says in the article 7 right away, so we're all limited. Maybe even if we can't buy something because we have an incentive housing measure that follows that indexation again, so let's say that we've complemented it, but we've said for sure that we should go for rent a kind of incentive, but especially to those assisted areas, but not just to them, but to those first groups to get more points if you go to the first group, wherever she is, and be that city or community. The most common column. And if it were to be included among the criteria of determination, it would already mean a lot and change. I don't know if she'd be interested, but it would be a possibility. Here are absolutely some of what I see that, hopefully, taking into account these suggestions, generally of course the HNS Club will support this and I say this is one of the series, a series of measures when we say state something is stimulating, going, revitalizing the village then it means both tax and infrastructure and through housing and everything else, so there really is a number of ministries, more offices specifically when we're talking about this central law now, and I think that that's how we should go, parallelly, synchronised, not to happen to us, and that's a lot of times we've been able to do that, that one of the laws of the Malteses rule out or make other meaningless, especially one of the projects to another. Here's a thank you and I hope you'll consider these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93751	Thank you, too. Now it's your turn, if you stop the moment, Mr. Damir Mateljan in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93752	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposal for a Law on Housing in Supported Areas was initially presented and was thus presented to committees on the agenda in the part of the debate together with the laws which are part of regional development such as the Law on Mountains and Mountains, or the Law on Supported Areas, and this is a logical and correct context in which this law should and be, unlike today, when it is here together with the Law on Public Discipline, or on Cogeneration, but okay. The policy of housing in assisted areas should certainly be part of the general policy of regional development of the Republic of Croatia, and what I can notice is that the current legal framework that has dealt with housing in assisted areas is to focus primarily on the problem of returnees and refugees in those areas that were occupied during the Homeland War. Enough time has passed, since the end of the war, and this focus should nevertheless be extended to all assisted areas which are also defined by the Regional Development Act on the basis of the Development Index and also to mountainous and mountainous areas, islands and border areas. This proposal for a law, as stated in its opening statement, has two basic objectives, two basic objectives. Its primary and main objective is to create a system of measures of activity that will result in the promotion of residues and population settlement in assisted areas in accordance with the Regional Development Act or the Development Index. It is a system that will contribute to the demographic and economic development of these areas. The secondary objective of this proposal is to promote the co-operation of central government with local units in assisted areas in order to encourage job creation, competitiveness, economic growth, better quality of life and sustainable development. The policy of housing in assisted areas as a tool is necessary and necessary, but of course it is not enough as it is not in synergy with other tools, regional development policy, in particular tax policy, decentralisation, the creation of concrete measures of demographic recovery, strengthening local, financial, administrative capacity and other tools and measures of regional development policy. And in my opinion, this is also the main problem of this law as well as the entire regulatory framework related to regional development, which is a discrepancy between stakeholders of this policy, which is primarily the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry, because when we talk about regional development policy, we cannot solely determine that it is the job of one ministry or one office, but it is the job of all ministries, so the complete Government of the Republic of Croatia. This legislative proposal is more quality, it is much more quality than the proposed Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and the Proposal for a Law on Supported Areas, in fact, it is seen that there is a continuity of thinking about this topic and thus this legislative proposal and a more quality shift from what we have so far. During a discussion at the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Committee on Regional Development, I followed a subtle communication between the Secretary of State and Mr Dumbovic, who is not here now, when Mr. Secretary of State explained some solution from the proposal, he would seek the view of his colleague Dumbovic, and he would affirmably nod. This is one of the reasons why I was not against the proposal of this law in the first reading because it is obvious that the Central State Office has communicated the proposal of this law with those with whom it is necessary and these are primarily the leaders of the unit of local self-government in areas of special state concern, it is only right and it is only good. However, I would like to make some remarks that are also part of the city association’s objections, I have not seen, I have not heard them mentioned today. First of all, staff management is an extremely important segment of housing policy. At the beginning, quoting the proposer himself, I said that the aim of this law is to contribute to the demographic restoration of assisted areas, the lack of highly educated personnel in assisted areas, the lack of motivation for the arrival or stay of such personnel, are one of the main reasons for the incompetence and demographic collapse of these areas. Namely, if all young people leave some local environment, if all your entrepreneurs leave you, you can have as head of local self-government the charisma of Alexander the Great, you can be as capable as Steve Jobs, but with a few grandparents, you will unfortunately fail to move that end towards a better life. Therefore, in the articles relating to housing care, appropriate provisions should be installed for persons who have achieved or will exercise the right to care as residents living in the area for 10 or more years before being assigned a housing unit under the conditions laid down in Article 3 of this legislative proposal or after a maximum of 2 years of use of the housing unit. Furthermore, although this bill provides for the sale of housing units owned by units to be accepted by local self-government, the law should also provide for financial means for the implementation of housing and allow affordable solutions for the most vulnerable groups of companies so that all the burden, so the purchase of housing units under currently the most favourable applicable financial conditions, would not fall on the burden of citizens alone. Similarly, although the financial rules relating to the purchase of family houses or state-owned apartments are not the subject of this legislative proposal, it is an opportunity to point out the provisions of the house or apartment purchase regulation where it states that the payment period cannot be longer than 25 years and that a fixed interest of 2% is established. So, once again, if the objective of this law is, the aim of this law is to demographically rebuild the population in that area, the arrival of a new population, then we should think about the situation, so the people who live there, about their creditworthiness and should go with much more favourable conditions than it is in other areas. So, with all this at the SDP Club, we hope that by the second reading we will accept these remarks and remarks, all those who spoke on behalf of the club and also had quality remarks on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93753	Thank you too, Mr. Mateo. Now it's Mr. Mladen Madyer, the club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93754	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. It is a good thing that we finally have before us the Proposal for a Law on Housing in assisted areas, which first appears to be implemented and which should address the issues of buying out of our citizens' houses and apartments, who have moved into the war, in the affected area after 25 years. It's not good what this proposal means, less now, than it was brought 20 years ago when these problems occurred. Unfortunately, we must conclude that all governments so far have promised to resolve the issue of permanent housing for these people. You can only imagine that someone whose home is probably permanently destroyed, to come abroad and demand housing for more than 20 years stands in an office and collects dust, as counterpart Vlaovic also noted that 6000 requests for care were received and only 10% were solved. This law must be acknowledged, something simplifies the procedure for buying these state houses and apartments and more realistically determines the price of real estate in demographically devastationed areas. We at the HSS Club believe that this proposal is unfortunately late, because in recent years a large number of entire families have left these areas because they did not know whether and when they will be able to buy the property and at what cost the property, in which they have lived for years and invested in it. The legal procedure was too complicated and prices weren't realistic, but we know who this proposal will help now when we have, for example, but we don't know who this proposal will help now, when, for example, we have a situation that only in the Knin area has moved more than 500 families, examples of Okucani, Pakrac and Lipovac. Of course, we must warn that this bill should be completed by the second reading. For example, some inaccessible provisions, relating to household staff care, deficitary occupations that are prescribed for a person to receive an apartment at sea, have been resident for at least 10 years. The 42nd beneficiary of residential care referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may, on his own request, purchase the housing unit concerned, under the conditions prescribed by this law, after 10 years of residence in the area, the application of this law and 5 years of residence in the residential unit. So we invite, for example, a doctor or a professor to come work in a village in Slavonia and in 10 years he has the right to buy the house. Very attractive, but no, I don't think that's good. Art. 29. that prescribes that all members of the family, i.e. the beneficiaries of the housing unit, and become co-owners of the housing unit, sign a donation contract and a purchase contract. Art. 31, which imposes a ban on the housing unit within 10 years of the day of immigration into the same and 3 years from the conclusion of the grant contract, shall not be burdened. So if he wants to borrow, expand on that part, he can't burden that house for at least 10 years, so he can't raise a loan on that house to expand construction. There's a lot of absurdity and a lot of work ahead of you and the HSS Club will be held back in reading, and if it's done, in the second reading, we'll see if we vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93755	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates, I'm talking slowly, so maybe Mr. Mars shows up, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Ivan Lovrinović, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Tomislav Lipošak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93756	I would like to thank Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. In the introduction of your presentation on this law, in fact in the presentation of clubs, we've heard a lot about the law and a lot of it has already been detailed and elaborated. I would just remind myself that last week we had 3 laws in the Assembly procedure, i.e., the Law on Islands, the Law on mountainous mountainous areas and the Law on assisted areas, which were in fact one single objective, in these areas, to encourage, above all, demographic, economic and social development, i.e., movements in a positive direction. I'm going to re-emphasis demographic movements as every time, because I think they're the main trigger and driver of all other movements both in a positive and negative direction. We have also witnessed that all of the efforts that have been made so far through certain legal frameworks, through certain measures, have not done much, that is, that all of these movements are angles. It has had one continuous decline and one negative omen and that in time it has become more and more different from the local self-government unit in the assisted and developed areas. And in the debate last week about all these laws, we could hear a series of opinions, criticism of proposals, both positive ones and negative ones, and among other things, these most often negative ones were that with these laws we only had one legal framework, but without concrete measures. Here is today the House Care Act in assisted areas. Not just one measure but actually a completely legal solution that should actually result in a return, stay and settlement in exactly such areas. Whether this is an ideal legal solution, whether it's an ideal legal proposal, probably not. We've heard a series of suggestions today, but I'll remind you that we're between two readings and that you still have suggestions that may or may not be appreciated. This is one step in the right direction, one part of mosaics, actually one puzzle of measures that, I hope, could finally bring back to these lives, bring people back, but as I was saying when we talked about mountainous mountainous areas, I think these measures have to be very specific, since in other areas that, in that way, we can say much more attractive to life, much more acceptable, we encounter certain problems and difficulties, especially when retaining certain deficits, i.e. occupations, I will only mention doctors and medical professions. So these measures, i.e. incentives in these areas, must be truly concrete and acceptable for people to decide in such areas to base both families and employment. I would also like to mention that perhaps such a modus should be extended to the entire Republic of Croatia, especially in those areas where there is a lack of certain occupations, so that perhaps in these areas, we can find similar solutions, through certain incentives for the retention of deficits. Of course, it will not be enough in itself, I will repeat it once more, but with employment housing is actually one of the basic factors of staying and living in all areas and not just in assisted areas, mountainous mountainous or islandous areas. As we can see from the very legal proposal, a series of models this law offers from renting houses, state-owned apartments to donations of land or material. And basically I think that this is a good measure, I hope that it will go in one positive direction and will actually stop the so far negative movements and the so far negative practices which have so far been legal solutions. Of course I welcome him and believe that, with a quality sustainable development programme in these areas, there can be one big plus, one big shift towards a better life in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93757	Thank you, too. Mr. Stypo Sapina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93758	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state with associates. We have before us a proposal for a law on assisted areas where the legislator proposes and this law regulates everything. The categories of users who can exercise the right to housing, the way in which they are taken care of and the conditions for the exercise of the right to housing shall be arranged. The aim of this law is to return, stay and settle in assisted areas. The way in which housing rights can be exercised is prescribed and 5 is proposed... Also prescribed are the conditions under which the party and its family members may also exercise the right to housing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law also prescribes who cannot exercise the right to care for the living. A series of measures, rights and obligations to be met by beneficiaries of housing rights and those wishing to be taken care of in assisted areas are prescribed. In my presentation, I would refer to Article 39. In Article 39, it is proposed that applications for housing be submitted to the Office of State Administration and that the Office of State Administration resolves applications in the first instance, resolves applications and, in the event of objections and complaints, that it solves the Central State Office and possible complaints in the second instance. I will give an example, because of the too distance of individual settlements, one example from Sisak-Moslavina County where Dvor is, where Novska is 80 km away from the Office of State Administration which has its headquarters in Sisak. Because of the traffic decoupling with some places, for example. One bus line, possibly two during the day, goes to the Court for one document that the party in the procedure needs to obtain and take away should travel 80 to 100km and is not known how to return because there are no buses. Perhaps my reflections should also consider that applications are collected in municipalities and cities from areas of special state concern, that units of local administrations and self-government form their own housing commissions, that the housing commission solves cases in the first degree and the Regional Office and the Central State Office in the second instance of the arrival of any complaints. It was until 2003, then the municipalities and cities of documentation taught the State Department of Housing which had, which was in every major city and which in every major city had its own outpost. The reduction in the number of employees in the Central Office, the district offices were also abolished, the central state offices were abolished, and now each county has one regional office and one state administration office that addresses the issue of housing care for those people who are already resident and those who want to be taken care of inhabitably. Until the second reading, I propose that activity be carried out and once again discussed with the mayors and mayors in the area of special state care and try to find a way to meet the demands of citizens and the demands of parties who wish to care for the area of special state care. From the information and data I receive, I see that the central state office for renovation and housing has been solving more and more cases since 2016 and contributes to its activities the return, remnant and settlement of the new population in the area of special state care. It improves the conditions of family housing in the Republic of Croatia without adequate housing unit, and above all thanks to the participation of funds from the state budget, as far as I have indicators I think in the last two years 40 million kunas have come and thus all your activities have improved wherever and where. The reconstruction process is almost over, all the organized accommodations are closed, allowing for a return to pre-war residence for those who wanted to return. This bill draws closer to the user, understands his needs, except that he administratively relieves the user of housing, interventions and in the very conditions that the user needs to achieve in order to be taken care of. Here I must highlight and commend in this proposal the reduction of the time limit for buying a housing unit from 10 to 3 years, which will certainly encourage new families to settle in these parts. There are further measures to calculate the provision of cash support, as well as significantly lower rental prices in certain cases. This bill applies to a series of provisions that promotes the state's relationship as a tenant and as a tenant, which contributes to legal certainty. I believe that the effects of this bill will be felt in the first year of its application and will help demographic restoration and even development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93759	Thank you very much. You have one replica of Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93760	Thank you. Comrade Shapin, I support you in thinking that requests cannot be submitted only in the offices of the state administration because in the opening line I told the Secretary of State that the merger of the state administration's office with the county has been announced, so for this reason we need to change it until the second reading, and especially what we want to bring the citizens closer to having the opportunity to apply, closer, to have less costs because we are in pain with all the information that this law explains... more than 6,000 requests per year, and only 10% solved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, it will be even less resolved and the question is, who are those 10% that they solve their demands, and these more than 5,000 are not solved, was it just political will or did they really meet all the criteria? Because people couldn't wait any longer, over 500 families moved out of Knin, and we have bright examples of the municipalities of Sibinj and Nova chapels that financially help stay young families in their area so let them look up to them and other municipalities,... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93761	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93762	Dear colleague, it is obvious from your presentation that you did not replicate me, but simply think about my proposal that I made in my presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93763	Thank you very much. Mr. Domagoj Mikulić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93764	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. I see that we are all aware that certain parts of Croatia are not equal to development with some other parts so that two thirds of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is located in the category of assisted areas. The Osijek-Baranja County, from which I come, numbers a total of 42 units of local self-government and of 42 units of 39, according to the value of the development index, is located under the average ranked units of local self-government, which means that more than 90% of the local self-government units in my county are a demographic, social weakness and are below the national development average. As a young person, I am aware of what are the biggest problems of young people, which is primarily permanent work and good pay, and immediately behind it is residential care, and this bill includes all those necessary and socially endangered, but also professional and educational staff as necessary individuals for municipalities and cities in which their interests are deficited and through the rental or donation of state houses or apartments, through the donation of materials or building land as a prerequisite for their staying in their cities and municipalities. All these years, the indicators have shown very clearly the necessity of new legal solutions, have sought new access to this problem, and I am therefore glad that we have not only this law here in the House, but a whole package of laws from your ministry and we all have the opportunity to create the best possible legal frameworks to stop this demographic social and economic lagging. As we have seen in the materials, 6000 demands only say how necessary this law is for a large number of citizens in the Republic of Croatia, how important housing is, and with these new changes made by law will be believed and more applications are important and the time period of resolution itself so that we can find and read in the media today how people submitted their documentation back in 2009, and the material for home building was only obtained last year. There is just a commendation to you secretary of state who, here in a short period, managed to speed up only solving these applications and what other colleagues in some way respected you it did not welcome, you have changed some things, it is also visible. And you have a commendation from Baranja where you were yesterday because we saw on a perfect example how you can do it whenever you want. This large number of families should always be kept in mind in the need and generally necessary to raise the living conditions of our citizens, so I hope that you will continue to reduce the time limits for solving individual cases in the future, because these deadlines from 2009 to 2018 are not acceptable until then. As I said in addition to employment housing is indeed one of the most effective measures of demographic restoration and certainly and the prerequisite for even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore believe that this systematic approach to addressing the problem of housing is commendable, and I sincerely hope that the adoption of the entire package of measures that I have talked about through targeted investments will encourage this desired return of displaced, settlement of the new population and will result in a truly economic development in assisted areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93765	Thank you, too. You have one replica of Mr. Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93766	Thank you, Vice President. Very short fellow Mikulić, you mentioned Baranja. In my presentation I have just cited the Osijek-Baranja County as an example where of 42 units, 39 have been assisted and the whole of Baranja falls into it. So all the municipalities and the city of White Manastir in Baranja are being assisted. I didn't have an example to hear, I'd like you to explain a little bit more about this example of what you said in Baranja itself, but what's the point of the whole story that I want, and I'm going to point out individually some other things that we need to think that not all the assisted areas are the same because it's not the same in Baranja as somewhere down in some town or Djakov or we're talking about Brod, Gradišci, etc., etc. So we have to have different groups on our mind once again when we bring criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93767	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93768	I thank you, Vice President. Well, as for the example itself, you can find it in the media, so it's a family from Baranja who submitted her request in 2009, and in fact only last year they got the material themselves, and they've already practically finished their home, they were just shocked by the speed and engagement of the ministry itself. And as far as assisted areas are concerned, I agree that it might not be bad if there were some rank because indeed every area is not the same and should not be seen as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93769	Thank you very much. Mrs Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93770	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Well, there's a lot of words already, but I'd just like to point out that this law is very important for areas, assisted areas, especially what we know that here in Zadar County we have 10 such assisted areas that were once in the status of special concern. They have different indices of development, and when we look at the total in Croatia, then we have over 978 thousand inhabitants in assisted areas. This means over 23% of the total population of Croatia. And it is therefore important to make it possible in such areas as high as possible and to take care of those who cannot solve their housing issues differently. In our area such as the Gračac municipality, Obrovac, Benkovac, these are cities and municipalities that were different from other housing units that were state-owned and which could not be granted precisely because one such regulation was missing, which would allow such facilities to be put into operation as soon as possible and to find a model and criterion that would be able to be allocated and also a model how to restore it because we know that this area was devastated and very much covered by war. In these areas, in particular Gracaca has settled and many families from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croats and others have come, so it is a very big help to provide young families and all other families who have not been able to resolve their housing issue differently. In fact, in relation to the number of family members, it is seen in the laws themselves that it is also determined in other laws that the criteria of squares per member of the family are used, that is, by the numbers of family members. And what is very important is that in the draft budget itself there are these funds that have allowed, among other things, to be allocated in areas where there are no apartments, such as 7 other places and municipalities in the area and in all of Croatia, where they can be allocated and building material, which can be built by these families, which is a great help, when we know, that what the Secretary of State has told me is on average the value of some 130 thousand kunas of construction material, which can in a rough way raise the house and thus significantly help, that these families remain in these areas and create conditions for life and work. So I say, this is a quality step because, in this way, when we look at that law and the laws regulated by the Regional Development Act, it has, in particular, increased the area of competence of the housing programme for an additional 151 units, so the total of this coverage includes 336 units of local self-government. Which is very important, given that we have a lot of small environments in which there are very old ageing populations, and in this way we allow young people to stay, because our areas are large surface areas, and by the number of inhabitants, they are very weakly populated. So here I welcome this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93771	Thank you, too. The last individual debate, Mr. Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93772	Thank you, Vice President. Very, very short, just a few things I didn't bring up in front of the club. Yeah, we're all talking about coming back here is more important to me than leaving. When we talk about coming back, then we'll also have to find a model of how people can be familiar with the competition, with the possibility of applying, to know how they're going to be informed, so we should probably have some means to predict, because some of the conditions here, the collection of documentation doesn't last fast, of course how it always happens with us, and that's especially if someone's moved, it might have to plan to come more times, if there's any intensity to come back, and I hope it does. But let's take care of those who are still there. Art. The 10th would certainly commend it, which recognises the possibility of expanding the number of users, i.e., which speaks of its third item on the newly created family. That's absolutely commendable. And we didn't discriminate against them, no matter what. Art. 5. It also says that practically all those who apply to this process are exempt from administrative and public registration fees, absolutely for commendation and an example perhaps further. Now, what I'm still interested in is the art. 8. I am not quite clear in paragraph 2 of the definition, who is not, who can not really be, so it says that those who have ownership and co-ownership, i.e. do not have another habitable family house in the area of the Republic of Croatia, which is absolutely clear. However, in the second paragraph, those who do not have it in the countries where they are staying, or where they were staying. Now how do you prove it? That means, if they didn't stay in that country and they have real estate there, they are, they can answer. I don't think it's the intensity of staying, the intensity of ownership. So you'd be staying here, maybe I would have dropped it, and if they hadn't sold it, too. Because it doesn't make sense to me whether someone was changing states or didn't stay in them, or whether or not they did, and yet I'm saying, there can be a question, an inheritance, in some other countries, especially if we're watching from the BIH, people can be heirs, that they don't even know. So the original question I asked, the inheritance, is that we exclude someone, that is, if he accidentally got a fifth of something he can't use and can't move in, that we'll allow the other 4/5 owners, without compensation to consider it. Finally, once again, I only appeal to those development groups to enter as criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93773	Thank you, too. Now, in the name of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, Mr Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93774	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today we have heard from both the promoters and through these discussions we have found, but somehow I lack emotion, I miss the experience of people living in areas of special state concern, we will technically do this. And there is certainly what the law is making changes and what is positively assessed, however, what do we expect? I'd say, Secretary of State, if you were here, I don't know the minister of traffic, so you'd tell us, okay, the post office will have to be in every unit of local self-government for people who work there we'll certainly ensure they have more housing. If there, if the Minister of Education came and said so, we'd have all the district schools open, and at the price, that's the last child, and we'd ensure for those school employees that we have housing. Well, I'm afraid somehow we're going to end this debate and say, we're going to have beautiful roads, we're going to have laws, all of this is going to be great, but for who? Who do we do housing for? I live in a place where 2/3 of the place is empty, 2/3 of the facilities are sold... 2/3 of the objects you can move into, just here, to ask you to let me in, keep me from falling apart. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on the other hand we're talking about housing, I think that, in some ways, we've lost sight of that life is different, the life we remember on the way back when there was a move to the city of Vukovar where you came from where you were looking for an object more, where you were looking for an apartment more, where you were looking for professional educated people who were looking for their place of work where enthusiasm was, now I don't actually feel it. I don't see where I come from from from my Vukovar-Srijem County. I don't see that that's the demand. The bigger problem is those who may be living in those apartments, not having some rights, they were thinking of buying out all this expensive property-law settlement and all that. So here, I took that two, three minutes away from you, but just to point out that I'm going to appreciate your work, I'm going to appreciate it all together, I'm actually missing the government enthusiasm, the enthusiasm that we can share here that we're going to say, we're going to keep that area, it's not going to happen to us like some other areas in the EU, even in the EU if you go around some more developed countries that are devastated. Professional personnel who are there, who live, who need to live, are not only in a position to perform a certain service or activity for the sake of being there, or to get rid of housing. Well, people need profiles like that to keep us social life, to organize activities, to be the leaders of some new thoughts, to bring that innovative blood, because I'm just afraid that we've fallen into one lethargy, and somehow we just expect when whoever leaves and will no longer be in my place two-thirds of empty houses, there may be more. And then let me tell someone today we were discussing housing here, and they'll say nice, but we don't need that. Let's try to expand these clean that and within your actions to determine how to bring back the people, who may be there for us, maybe we'll, someone will call it a bust, I'd say no, it's necessary for us to keep the number of residents, that person who comes, comes with his family, with his kids, looks for a post office, looks for a school, asks for everything we think is a basis to provide someone with housing. That's it, thanks for this attention, maybe if I was emotional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93775	Thank you, too. And now, finally, the proposer's representative, State Secretary of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, Mr. Nikola Mazhar will have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93776	Thank you, well-respected vice president, respected parliamentary deputies, parliamentary deputies. First of all, let me thank you all for the constructive debate, for the constructive proposals, on the subject that certainly connects all of us regardless of the political options, which we could see in front of the club and the opposition that praised and the work of the office with the units of local self-government, but we could see that on the parliamentary committees where we were essentially supported by all sides. Mrs. Mrak-Taritash here, I'm sorry she's no longer here, she's asked the question of the difference between local self-government units and assisted areas and about this law, but here she'll be given by someone or she'll know. The difference was precisely that I was pointed out in the opening speech that, in addition to the assisted areas, we also retain those units of local self-government that were in the field of special state care, and did not enter the assisted areas such as the Antunovac municipality in Osijek-Baranja County for reasons to continue to do our activities in these areas continuously and ultimately give people those rights that belong to them, so that the purchase, the donation, all that they got from the office in the state administration to bring all these activities to an end so that these people would not remain in some air-empty space. As for MP Milosevic, which is related to the completion of the reconstruction, I must point out, as it is pointed out here, that this law first looks at the future, looks at the present. So far, it has been a binding law on areas of special state concern aimed at rebuilding and returning. As the restoration and return is over, we have to watch demographic restoration, we have to watch the revitalization, the stay and the return, so we certainly had to watch the future, but we also have to solve the past. For this reason, I must point out that this year we have finished 20 houses, 112 houses are in labor, 23 houses are in the process of contracting works and 30 is project documentation. This is a number of 180 family houses related to reconstruction, leaving about 100 unsolved cases in the offices of the state administration and 100 in the first degree, therefore, which is the appeal. I believe that we will also solve the restoration over the next year, as we have solved the organized accommodation. It was also the same situation that the Republic of Croatia dragged away from its independence, and here last year we closed the last of the exiles' violence, solved the status of refugees and exiles. So regardless of the activities we are looking at in advance and solving and the activities that have welcomed us here, I need to highlight the resolution of the former tenant, so my arrival of 2320 cases was closed, and today we still have a 760th, so in a year and a half we solved over 1600 cases, above all by introducing administrative oversight of the central state office towards the offices of the state administrations in the county, which we have the right and this is exactly the administrative surveillance that has resulted in this. I must point out that I am pleased that we all recognize together the moment of adoption of this law and the need, but everything that we must do in some way as the Republic of Croatia. That's exactly why I'm the mayor of Petrinja... he said, and also to Kajtazi, that in over a year and a few days we worked together to pass this law, above all to be good quality, to be concrete and to be with measures that are measurable and that will be visible in the first year of its application. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to touch the representative Panenic who had before me on behalf of the MOST club and maybe he said he lacked emotions. I think he comes from the county where I come from and we've known each other for a long time, and I think he knows me as an emotional politician who doesn't look at the function, but he's really trying to do his best, and I'm just like he was connected to this matter, not because I wanted to, but because it turned out that way. So I lived in an exile settlement, I was in Mali Gorica for two years, then I lived in the APN house until mine was restored. When she recovered with her family, I returned in 65 square meters, etc. So I could feel it on my skin, which means if some laws apply, or don't apply, and if they're just a letter on paper without certain activities. And that's exactly how important this law is to bring in as broadly as possible to different parts of the Republic of Croatia. That's why he did, because the Taritash lawyer said there might be something about this somewhere, something else. It's precisely because it's not the same in Zadar County in Grazac where we built the building, we gave five emergency apartments, a teacher and an aunt in kindergarten, and it's not the same in the town of Vukovar where we have 2.5 thousand apartments and where we're going to share 170 apartments this year. So it's much easier in the town of Vukovar to assign a staff apartment than in Grazac. It's not the same in the Lower Kukurusari where you've been waiting for a ten-year donation or somewhere where it goes a lot faster. Because looking at all the specificities of local self-government units, we tried to make the law go as justly as possible in all directions. I think it's extremely important all of these reliefs, we didn't point out that first of all we're going to go, that the central state office will take over on itself, so the whole application process, or by official duty, will all those documents that are committed to respect. So no more parties will have to re-apply every year, but will only report whether they still want to be related to housing or not. And maybe it's important for the prominent above all, so one topic or fact that you've all used more or less than 6000 requirements, 10% met. In fact, 6 000 demands are at an annual level in all housing models and throughout all periods. They're demands, or they're desires. When managing public administrations initiate administrative procedures relating to the adoption of a solution or rights, then it shall be determined whether or not someone has the right to care for the housing. In practice so far, it is evident that somewhere around 25 to 30% loses that right. So we cut those 6,000 demands by 30% and then we come up with about 4,000 of those demands right. On the other hand, solving 600 to 800 families is of course by all models. Here, we could see yesterday in Osijek-Baranja County when we were near the White Manastir near the 2 families that in 2009, they submitted a request, they got a solution to the state administration's office a year and a half ago, now they have a house. So what was important was that we cut the waiting time and the time to fulfill the right. I must point out that coming to this position has welcomed me a lot of different problems. One of the problems was that in 2015, the office returned 67 million kuna to the state budget. I think we're all aware of the 67 million kuna that can be made and built both buildings and houses and apartments. On the other hand, at the annual level, the office had 400 consents and 400 solutions. And in 2015 he had a delivery of 147 sets of materials. So if the budget doesn't follow the consent of the solution and you give 400 at the annual level then you get yourself into a situation where you automatically put the family to wait 5, 6, 7 years at the beginning. My first decision was to make 200 consents and solutions instead of 400. So I have a 100% lower let's say efficiency and I've raised 35 million kunas to the supply of construction material. We'll have 400 sets of material this year. So in two years from 147 we jumped to 400. On the other hand, the self and reorganization within the office and within the public procurement we achieved that this two years in the term of this government office had a 99% budget implementation. Thus, we were the most successful state body and allowed the budget to increase. In these two years we have had the continuity of the increase he has now amounted to over 35 million kuna and next year the limit for the office will also increase. I think all these activities can only then bring optimal solutions, which is that people are waiting for construction material between a year and a half, two days, which is acceptable. Of course, if you wait 9 years for that time to go out and give up or God forbid something else bad happens. Of course, through this law we will try to settle people into all these measures that are now empty. And it's not just a matter of housing, I'd say it's a matter of national security. We're talking about... The borders of the Republic of Croatia, from Slavonia, via Banovina, down to the Dalmatian mountain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this one of the models that family houses will be given for one kuna, but I have to point out, unlike the cities, in the villages of the state houses, they also have economic buildings around them, so they also have animal buildings, cattle, farmers, but they also have larger agricultural areas. So it's certainly one of the same ways to attract people into less attractive areas, not city centers. And as the mayor of Petrinja pointed out by this new law, so we correct one injustice from past times, so it was a ban on donations in certain areas. It was specifically about Clay and Petrinja. I must point out that we will certainly make sure that between these two readings and all these comments or suggestions we respect, that together we do some more things that will improve this law to get full application on the ground. There was a lot of talk about people's dwellings, about having to live for 5 years, about ten years to make up for it. I agree that we should consider these deadlines, too, in the interest of personnel or their users. But so far, there has been no possibility of buying people's apartments. So far, staff apartments have only been assigned to use, while there is a need in a particular institution for the staff. So I think it's important to do certain steps, which will make things possible for the first time. We also pointed out this increase in the compensation for the award of construction material 25% of the net value. So, if the family gets 160 grand of material and then gets 40 grand on their hands, it certainly will help them, not only build a house but that it is immediately, within a very short period of time, office. I must point out that in addition to the assignment of construction matter, as we call it, it has, above all, the costs of the Republic of Croatia, which include project building, building permit, professional supervision, connection to the el. Energy and of course material. This is one set of activities that the family gets and can say, that even yesterday in the area of the White Manastir, but also in other parts, we see that more and more young families decide on it. What makes me happy is that the demographic measures here, which may be popular in speech, can really be seen in the field. Here, last year we had a family in the city of Vukovar, who returned from Ireland, a young family with two children who had an apartment in Vukovar and decided to return to Vukovar. Last weekend, I met them in town, and I can tell they live happily ever after with their two little kids. He's got a job, so we can see that this can really help people come back. On the other hand, I also invite my colleague Panenic, I should say so. A week visit also part of Cvelferija around Županje, specifically, Vrbanja, Drenovce and Jarmin, where local self-government officials also reported to praise how people received construction material. We have only in the past years in the area of Vukovar Sremska, increased delivery from 50 to 100 sets. So we're up by 100%. And I think when we go around the field together, there's still emotion. When a young family gets a key, when a child gets a room, when a brother and sister argue who will be in which room, then we see, however, that all of this makes sense, that they should fight, that they should not give up, regardless of certain and bureaucratic obstacles or some things that last. In view of the talk that the reorganisation of public administration will take place in the way and the accession of the offices of state administrations to the counties, I think it will certainly benefit in the application of this law, since they will become administrative bodies within the counties and that these employees in the public administration offices will certainly be relieved to be able to deal much more with housing. As for the central state office itself and the increase in the work cycle, I must point out that in this year and a half, we have increased the number of employees by 30%, not only in the centre of Zagreb, but above all in our regional offices in Vukovar, Knin, Gospić, Karlovac, Zadar, Petrinja, and I think that this will certainly show that all these requirements, which have been put into place in quality requirements, will be possible. I once again consider the obligation of all of us together to try to bring back life to these places, to bring back a smile, to bring back the spirit, but certainly to do all that people have chosen us for, so I believe until the second reading, that we are going to adopt a lot of this today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93777	Thank you, too. You have two replicas, the first replica of Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93778	Thank you very much. Mr. Mazhar, on such a good bill, there's one in my book. Because when a theme like this is being processed, then, I think, just in the opening part, you have to stand as much as it is invested, and how many units have been restored in the past years, because when you're talking about this right now, it's 100 or 200, but when you bring it all together, because of change and organisational shape, then you'll see that it's about billions of people. And tens and tens of thousands of renovated housing units. And I think that when an amendment to a law like this is passed, then it's simply, that kind of information would have to be found inside. You'd have to be in there for the truth and for the stretch, to say the weather, but when that financial data is put in one place, then you'll see how much it is. In the past 20 years, Croatia has averaged about 10 billion kuna a year to isolate what is directly the indirect consequences of the war, and therefore we are practically a specific country in the EU, and that is what needs to be asked for them to simply assume it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93779	Would you like to answer that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93780	I will only point out that through this office, which was created as a government office for refugees and exiles, over 158,000 houses were restored and 750,000 citizens were taken care of, who were in different or parts of persecution or refugee and who returned to their homes and returned to their areas. Furthermore, by completing the renovation and return, this office has taken over all the city's apartments, so the city of Vukovar has transferred 5.5 thousand apartments, the city of Knin 2.5 thousand apartments. We have donated more than half of it to this day and sold a large part of it. It may be important to stress that the purchase now carried out in a very high percentage remains for local self-government units. So, we're only going to be in the city of Vukovar this year for a sale in their budget of over 5 million kn. So, of course, all the activities that have been happening and happening are in billions and hundreds of thousands of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93781	And finally another replica, Mr. Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93782	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned in your speech, now in conclusion, that certain family houses have both economic units, land and the like. I'm interested in whether, according to what we read, people who have a farm area are acceptable, that they can be applied, regardless of the size of that property, whether these forests are agricultural, etc. It's just that it's not building land, we know it can, it's just that it doesn't have any apartment. So that, I'd just like it to be clear, that it can usually mean a lot and still there may be certain abuses, you know what it's like to have someone have a lot of land and say they see another state give him something. That's all I'd like to do is sort it out a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93783	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93784	So according to the available state-owned housing units, what belongs within the housing unit and what is owned by RH 1/1, then it becomes in accordance with the lease and later on the purchase, depends, of course, on the local self-government unit to the local self-government unit, but certainly it is legally prescribed, so that more than 5 thousand square metres cannot or must have certain consent. But according to this, both the catastro and the land of the book excerpts are then the housing unit in the set and assigned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93785	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93786	Proposal for a Household Care Act in assisted areas, first reading, P.Z. No. 411, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Housing in Supported Areas and Second, all observations and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that with 96 votes for, 25 abstentions, it was concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93787	Now we move on to the next bill. It is: - Proposal for a law on social work activity, first reading, P.Z. 405; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mrs. Maria Peltikosa, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93788	Dear Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93789	I'm sorry to say this to the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93790	Thank you. Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. The objective of the adoption of a new Act on Activity and Social Work is to improve the quality of social work in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the activities described so far, new content is prescribed as new activities, psychosocial support, early intervention, family mediation, etc. The conditions for the authorisation for entry into the registers of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers are more clearly prescribed, i.e. the procedure for granting the authorisation for independent work, etc. a general permit and conditions for the termination of the right to carry out social work. The competence to recognise foreign professional qualifications is transferred to the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers. Provisions relating to the obligation to verify expertise in the Croatian chamber of social workers every 6 years are deleted to reduce the administrative burden of persons carrying out their social work. The provisions so far relating to the exercise of private practice and the independent professional activity are united in the provisions relating to the performance of social work activities as professional activities and the conditions for implementation, suspension and termination are more clearly regulated. Provisions relating to keeping a professional secret are extended in a way that extends the provisions to social worker instruments and conclusions. In order to strengthen the capacity and improve the quality of the work of the chamber, the composition of board members is amended in such a way as to reduce the number of members elected by the Assembly and to introduce representatives of the founders, i.e. the Ministry of Social Care and the Croatian Association of Social Workers. Infringement provisions shall be introduced except for the person carrying out the social work activity and for the legal person who employs or enters a contract with a person who does not fulfil the conditions laid down for the authorisation of independent work and special authorisation for independent work. The proposed law will not require additional funding but funds are secured in the state budget at the position of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy. The following is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the proposal of the Social Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93791	Thank you very much. You have two replicas. The first line has Mr. Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93792	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I see the proposed Law on the Activity of Social Work as one shift to better work in reducing the burden of red tape of social workers working in the social care system, and I commend this. But also when we talk about social work in the Republic of Croatia, we cannot ignore the global context and simply realize that social work is under the strong influence of the economic and social crisis. And here, I'm sorry it's like this in the late hours because it's a very important law, and on that side I welcome the new Law on Social Labour.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93793	Okay. The second replica is the second replica of Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93794	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Assembly Yes, it is. [[Intruder Radin: You are not a replica, but you have a replica.]] Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your honorary secretary of state said that this law regulates family mediation, it should be said that it applies only to marriage, not to marital litigation or divorce. And one more thing, it's said that this extends obligations related to keeping a professional secret. In Article 50, paragraph 5 states that social labour instruments are prohibited in whole or in whole or in part to multiply in any way. How do you solve that in cases where you have one such situation so you have one and the other, let's say the lawyer's side that asks you for such documents, will it... Or not? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93795	Okay, will the committee's reporters take the floor? No, I don't. So we're going to the representatives' clubs, and Mrs. Ines Strenja-Linić first picked up in front of the club of the representatives of the independent lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93796	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for welcoming the MPs who are here late tonight at this point, I welcome the representatives of the ministry. So we have before us the Law on Social Labour. Before commenting on the law, I would like a few minutes of commitment to the position of social workers in our society. In the Republic of Croatia, according to available data, 1476 social workers, 1404 on social workers' jobs and 72 on the jobs of the breeders. There are some different figures in the directory, around 2085 they are listed in the register of the Chamber of Social Workers, they are those who have actually received the approval of independent work, the magistrates of social work, the masters of social policy, university graduates and social work, so they do the job. Social work in the Republic of Croatia for years is under the strong influence of the economic and social crisis or of the value crisis. The social care system remains highly centralised despite the announced and initiated reforms. It focuses on strong control mechanisms with an emphasis on finding abuses rather than on the quality of professional work which leads to mistrust in experts and users and creates a negative picture in the public and instead of raising the quality of social services results in the long term by bureaucratizing the system. The scope of the CZSS activity and high standards, with employment restrictions, is too wide, resulting in overburdening of social workers and, with the absence of professional evaluation and monitoring of impacts, directly affects the quality of social services. A low level of concern for human resources, insufficiently clear labour standards, lack of continuous professional training, inability to advance in the calling and bribed experts of the t-syphilic reform without well-leaded and planned changes, have for years marked and exhausted this system and administrative approach in the work distances experts from the user himself and increases the risks of professional failure and errors and making unethical decisions. From this, it is necessary to change current practice in order to achieve a healthy and secure environment in which social workers work, by providing spatial personnel and material resources. It is necessary to respect professional ethics and professional standards by reducing norms or by changing existing sublegal acts that will allow better quality and professional work and adequate and professional and personal development of experts in everyday practice. Furthermore, it is necessary and necessary to define and delegate levels of responsibility and vertical and horizontal and to strengthen inter-resorship cooperation and responsibilities and to ensure continued growth and development of experts through lifelong learning, standardisation of professional procedures, promotion of calling and independent professional supervision of the work of social workers. Because of users and social workers themselves, it is necessary to ensure the protection of professionals from the consequences of professional stress through the organisation of crisis intervention teams on the ground and continuous supervisory. It is also necessary to strengthen and develop a professional relationship with users of services through the transfer and application of good practice, to respect the user's perspective and to strengthen the personal responsibility of experts with full respect for professional ethics and professional standards, to provide professionals with free choice and application of access, methods and intervention of social work. Therefore, use instruments in risk assessment and respect the legal and ethical code of profession. Finally, it is necessary to change the perception of systems and professions in the public, by opening new channels of communication with citizens and the media, by public defending the rights of the most sensitive social groups with greater and public visibility of social work, by involving users in public discourses and by publicly presenting the impact of social work including the work of the profession in the field of the civil sector. Therefore, this law would regulate the content, conditions and ways of carrying out social work activities, standards of education, professional supervision of the performance of social work activities as an activity of interest for the State. And that's good. It aims to improve the quality of social work in Croatia. As we have heard, so far described activity and information, evaluation, counselling, social mentoring, supervisory, psychosocial and psychotherapy counselling and crisis intervention, as new activities are also prescribed to conduct cases of social work intervention, psychosocial support, early intervention, social planning, professional and organisational support and organisation of community development, and that is good. The conditions for admission to the registers of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers or the procedure for granting the authorisation for independent work are more clearly laid down, i.e. that general authorisation as well as the conditions for the termination of the right to perform social work activities and the competence to recognise foreign professional qualifications shall be transferred to the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers. What do we, as MOST, make as an observation in this phase of lawmaking? First of all, in public consultation many of them also raised doubts about the name of this law that we agree on, so the Law on the Activity of Social Work should actually read the Law on the exercise of the profession of social work. In all the law, it is necessary to stress the ministry's name, or the ministry's name, that it refers to the ministry responsible for social affairs because during which government it is, it can be changed in which jurisdiction, whether it will be there together with the Ministry of Health, you know that it was with the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, and therefore it is necessary to state it here. It is also unclear what social work instruments are related to which there is a need to define, since there is no special permit for work, it is unclear why the legislator rather than the licence so far proposes a general authorisation for work. Furthermore, in Article 33(3), it is necessary to amend it in a way that reads: The way in which the contents, deadlines and the professional training procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article are implemented is prescribed by the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers, with the consent of the Ministry of Social Care. Why? The proposed paragraph would, instead of the ministry responsible for social care affairs, be determined by the chamber itself by the content, deadlines and procedure of professional training and by the Ministry of Social Affairs, participate in the approval of the content of professional training. We need more independence from the chamber. Furthermore, Article 60(3) provides for a representative of the Croatian Association of Social Workers and a representative of the Ministry to be the Management Board of the Chamber of Social Workers. That's unusual. Therefore, it is unclear why representatives of the association of the competent ministry are introduced into the Management Board and thus the independence of the chamber is undermined. So, we propose to delete that provision on the appointment of members of the board of directors of the chamber in the order of the Croatian Association of Social Workers and the Ministry of Social Care, as it is necessary, repeat, that the chamber be independent. In Article 68(1), which speaks of professional supervision of the work of persons performing the social work, it is necessary to add that those members of the chamber do so. So expert supervision, and at the end of the sentence, you will see in Article 68(1). ‘a which are members of the chamber’. Why? Professional surveillance of the work of persons performing social work, in all legal persons performing the social work activity, in a work relating to the activity of social work, can only be done if employees are members of the chamber at the same time. Finally, fifthly, Article 71 does not require persons who already have a licence to re-apply a new application for a general permit, meaning a grant for independent work because it is the same legal work and would be a violation of the rights of persons already licensed to work under the old law. In conclusion, we all aim to raise awareness of the importance of social services through the advocate of the rights of users and to protect the integrity of professionals who are exposed to a number of professional risks. It's up to us to settle it with this law. I hope that by the final draft of the law you will put at least part of these remarks, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93797	Thank you, too. The second is now Mrs Ljubica Lukacic, in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The activity of social work was for the first time regulated by the Social Labour Act in 2011. We have heard here today from the State Secretary that this activity had to be expanded or it was necessary to improve the quality of the social work activity, therefore it and the aim of adopting a new law and the quality of activity would be improved in this law through the coordination of jobs from social work activities with modern and scientific settings, clearer regulation of the conditions for the execution of activities, then the rights and obligations of professional training, and the organisation of the exercise of activities as well as the extension of the public powers of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers. We all know that the social care system is a very complex system, therefore this applicable Social Labour Activity Act is not clearly regulated by the competences of social workers who carry out social work in the Republic of Croatia. I believe that this law will allow their competences, so to speak, to expand, or that a large number of users in the Republic of Croatia will be satisfied with the services provided by their social workers. For the sake of clarity of the rules, it is also necessary to clarify the conditions for granting authorisation for independent work, so this would now be called a general permit. We have now called this authorisation a licence, and we also have to comply with the conditions for the termination of the right to carry out the activities of social work. In accordance with the chamber data, no person enrolled in the chamber directory shall carry out private practice in the Republic of Croatia and this law should also improve the provisions relating to private practice and the performance of social work as a professional activity, i.e. it is necessary to prescribe only the performance of social work as a professional activity and part of the competence to carry it on board. In order to create preconditions for the exercise of all public powers of the chamber, it is necessary to improve the quality of work and organisational capacity as well as the sustainability of the chamber, which is planned to be achieved through the change of board members in such a way as to introduce representatives of the founders, i.e. the Ministry of Social Care and the Croatian Association of Social Workers. Under the proposed law, the content, conditions and method of carrying out the social work activities, standards of education, professional supervision of the activities carried out by social work as well as activities of interest to the Republic of Croatia, which is indeed the case. With the activities described so far, I have already noted, they are expanding, and the following is prescribed: case management, social labour intervention, psychosocial support, early intervention, assistance in including education and regular education programmes, etc. integration, social planning, professional and organisational support, and the organisation and development of the community, and changing the provisions and related to individual planning, i.e., previous personal planning, that way, that it will now include, all users, and not just persons with disabilities. Instead of approval so far, as I mentioned for my own work, so-called. the licence, the approval of a general permit is prescribed. This law makes the conditions for approval more clear, for registration in the registers of the chamber, i.e. the procedure for granting authorisation for independent work. In order to improve the conditions for the participation of persons engaged in the activity of social work on the market, the provisions of the current law, relating to the exercise of private practice and the independent professional activity, are united in the provisions relating to the performance of social work activities, as professional activities, and the conditions for temporary suspension are more clearly regulated, as well as the termination of activities. This law extends the provisions relating to keeping a professional secret, in a way that extends these provisions to the instruments of social work and final opinions. And this is done in a way that, in order to protect users, prohibits the instruments of social work as a whole or perhaps only in certain parts, multiply or in any other way, to give insight to unauthorized persons. In order to create preconditions for the exercise of all public powers of the chamber, and in order to strengthen and improve the capacity and quality of work, I have already noted that the membership of members in the legal committee is changing. In addition, infringement provisions shall be introduced, except for the natural person who carries out the social work activity, they shall also be introduced for the legal person, as well as for the responsible person, in the legal person, who employs or enters a labour contract, with a person who does not fulfil the conditions prescribed for granting the authorisation for independent work. As the State Secretary has already mentioned, the funds, for the implementation of this law, are secured in the state budget. I will also point out that I have received some remarks, both from the chamber of social workers and from the social workers themselves who believe that these proposals would further improve this law. I'm not going to list them in particular right now, I'm going to send it to you, so please consider them and put as many of these proposals as possible into the final draft of the law. The HDZ Club will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93799	Thank you very much. Now it is Mr. Rechimer Varda's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party, Solidarity and Reformists and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93800	... with co-workers, party representatives' club and solidarity and reformers and independents will support this proposal of the law in the first reading in the belief that you will accept all the comments and proposals made on the Committee on Stallation and Social Care and in this Assembly. [[Specially enabled.]] Namely, I do not want to repeat what respected colleague Ljubica Lukačić has now brought the subject of the law, also related to the board of directors, related to the expansion of activities, related to private practice and related to keeping business secrets. Not to say again, however, I suggest that in relation to the regulatory body of the chamber. Consider your proposal that you explain by reducing the administrative burden of persons. I doubt the rule will cut which one of the ministers or the ministry will bring, reduce that administrative burden if that's the reason for the law being passed, and I don't see that that's why this law is passed. Think about it. Secondly, think about how to make decisions on the chamber. The chamber has, according to the data I have, maybe they're correct, maybe they're not, like, 2100 members. In Article 53, you're saying that the chamber makes decisions and you say that the chamber makes decisions, just a little bit, I'm confused, but mostly it makes decisions by majority of the members present if most of the members are present at the session. And that means there should be 1051 members at the session. And of those 1051, most should make decisions. I don't know how it's actually possible. There are various solutions, there are various solutions, in addition to that in Article 63, I think I have rightly titled it you say the statute of the chamber which, you repeat in paragraph 3 also the way you vote, unnecessarily because you said it in that previous article, that the statute will be determined and the way you decide so let the members of the chamber regulate it. Let's leave it to them. Otherwise we'll block the chamber's operation. So that's what this is about. As for the name of the person, what is pointed out on the committee in the debate, I don't know why a person, why it's not a social worker or a social worker, I don't know what to do anymore, find a term, it seems to me that this term offends social workers and think about what you've actually heard on the board. Besides, I have to say, what you absolutely pleasantly surprised me, what you said, and we are aware of the shortcomings in the bill itself. I congratulate you on that, it's brave, it's constructive because you expect from discussions both on committees and in Parliament concrete examples and suggestions. Here I have some, and I live in the belief that you will adopt the remarks and proposals of the MPs for the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93801	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Dragana Jeckov's turn in front of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93802	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with her co-worker, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's MPs and MPs. If he hadn't spoken to the distinguished professor, this would have been another one in a series of so-called. Women's laws, but the professor broke that story. So we have a new proposal for the Law on Social Labour. I'm going to do something about social work as a profession, so it's really a profession based on humanistic ideals and protecting human rights that are part of the most important international documents. Social work can be applied in all areas of human life, in the field of social care, education and education, health, justice, local administrations, civil society, religious and humanitarian communities and other activities. The basic principles of social work are the achievement of social justice, respect for human rights, social responsibility and social diversity. In addition to the activity described so far, information, evaluation, counselling, social mentoring, supervision, psychosocial and psychotherapy counselling, crisis interventions, etc., as new activities, case management, social work intervention, psychosocial support, early intervention, social planning, professional and organisational support, and community organisation and development are also required. The social work profession, in fact, wanted it or not, closely related to political processes, and this close connection stems from the fact that this profession has human rights protection in its focus, but the action of social workers is clearly defined by the legislative framework, which is again of course determined by the state. So one contradictory relationship, on the one hand, social workers who want to improve the normative framework and thus make life easier for themselves in order to actually promote social values and raise the level of protection of human rights, but at the same time the state as the most common employer of social workers it expects, as works of public service, to be a continuation, or a kind of extended arm. The social work activity for the first time has been regulated, as we heard by the 2011 law, the key developments that the legislative proposal adopts are aimed at harmonising activities with international standards of the social work profession, recognition of foreign professional qualifications, regulation of the conditions for the authorisation for independent work, new regulation of the assumptions for the exercise of private practice and the precondition for the exercise of public authority of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers. The reason for the adoption of the law is the fact that, until now, the applicable law does not regulate the clear competences of social workers who carry out social work activities, and the problem has been demonstrated following the entry into force of the law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, as well as the fact that there is a need for clearer regulation of the work of persons carrying out the activities of social work, foreigners and EU citizens. The importance of this issue also points to the fact that the Chamber has received 144 applications for recognition of foreign professional qualifications, persons who have acquired diplomas outside the Republic of Croatia and that this process needs to be regulated and accelerated. What is positive and what needs to be pointed out in this legislative proposal is the approval so far for independent work, then, licences are prescribed for independent work and are now called a general permit, the conditions for stopping work to carry out social work, as well as adding the conditions of death. The new law sets out for registration in the registers of the Master of Social Labour, the Master of Social Policy and the University of Social Labour and the granting of the authorisation for independent work, and the harmonised conditions for the termination of the right to exercise the social work activities. According to the Chamber, none of the persons enrolled in the Chamber's directory carry out private practice in the Republic of Croatia and it is necessary to improve the provisions relating to private practice and to carry out social work as a professional activity. It is not from the above, points out, which are the general conditions for the performance of social work activities, so graduate or undergraduate university study for social work and graduate university study of social policy in the Republic of Croatia or nostrified diploma of foreign university, passed professional exam, citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, knowledge of Croatian language in speech and letter, enrolment in the directory of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers and approval for independent work. The new law, the carrying out of social work, as professional activities, and as part of the competences related to the performance of it, have also been transferred to the chamber. Public powers are transferred to the chamber, and the work of the chamber is arranged, in a way that changes the composition of the board of directors of the chamber, in a way that we have already had the opportunity to hear here, behind which I consider it to be a good way and should certainly be used, because thus directly, and directly the ministry is introduced into as a member of the Management Board of the Chamber. We also consider the positive introduction of an infringement provision, for a natural person, who performs the social work activity and for a legal person and a responsible person in a legal person, who hires or concludes a contract of work with a person who does not meet the conditions attributed to the authorisation for independent work. In this way, the momentum of legislation is to introduce order into possible working legal failures. In any case, I will also take advantage of the opportunity and point to the unfavourable position of social workers I hope this law will also, to some extent, be promoted and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93803	Thank you. It is now in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mrs. Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93804	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, State Secretary with an associate. So, before us there is a law on activity and social work, which among other things should say how important we attach the role of a social worker in society, what importance we attach to the role of a social worker to mitigate the negative consequences resulting from poor living conditions of unemployment, family disorders, addictions and other difficulties in which an individual or family can be found. This is a bill that should give greater importance to the role of social workers in preventing the emergence of negative consequences and strengthening personal and collective competences and forces with the aim of developing a healthy society. It is clear from this that the activity of social work is an activity of interest for the Republic of Croatia. Social workers, not only work in the welfare system, although most of them are, social workers, also work in education, health care in NGOs or religious organisations. Therefore, this law should ensure the highest standards in the education and training processes of the social workers themselves. So we rightly ask ourselves, is that what this proposal is about? From all of these facts, which I have just stated, the applicant should also have, all of this in mind and that through the legislative framework, the role of those associations that gather social workers precisely with the aim of protecting professions and professional roles. And that should be the key change in this bill compared to the previous law. However, it seems to us that this very law weakens the role of the roof institution in a way that strengthens the role of the ministry responsible for the field of social care. In this way the chamber is actually marginalized and it becomes unnecessary. I would also like to say something here at this moment about the argument of administration and that this law and the provisions of this law are being passed with the aim of reducing administration, so I think that this argument should simply be said, does not exactly hold water because this ministry cares about the reduction of administration that is being put in front of social workers every day, then they should actually continue to reform social care and in a way that sets aside the recognition of the right to cash compensation from the CZSS, and that social workers are actually dealing with what their basic interest is, that users, to be present in families, to be present everywhere where the problem exists. Unfortunately, this ministry has actually increased the administration so that what they say they want to meet social workers in this way that it will free them from the fact that every six years they renew their license is not in any way true or water-able. To go back to the law itself, strengthening the ministry's influence is seen by introducing its representative into the chamber's board of directors and not even regulation for the representative to be, for example, the master of social work or the master of social policy. Strengthening the impact of the ministry is seen in the fact that the competent ministry has given itself the right to adopt rules relating to professional training. In other words, you took away the chamber's right to decide on how to implement, on the content, deadlines and procedure of professional training. This way of the chamber took away the function of self-regulation of professional action and regulation of conditions and methods of professional training by the experts themselves. Also, as social workers work in different systems, it can be education and health care and as I said earlier by NGOs or religious organisations, then it is illogical that one ministry brings only one ministry, in this case the Ministry of Social Care, adopts a rule on professional training for all social workers. There is also a question of the next change compared to the previous law, and this is the abolition, I said earlier, the withdrawal of the licence, or the abolition of the necessity of restoring a licence that depends precisely on the quality of work and the professional training of social workers. You introduce a general permit without the need for renewal, and the right and obligation to professional training, you leave it to individual decision-making and evaluation of the social workers themselves. It seems to us that in the desire for stronger control at the work of the chamber and by putting your paws on the same, you have actually complicated the whole process and that ultimately this law will result in a worse position for social workers who work in other systems. If the ministry, the board of directors of the chamber appoints its representative by force of the law, and this representative participates in the management and management of the chamber's operations, the question arises who controls, controls and who is responsible for what? On the other hand, we also have a monitoring committee composed of members of the congregation, which also oversees the work of the board of directors and thus the ministry itself. Finally, I will mention another example that does not go into favour with the proposal because some provisions themselves state that they will be considered when making the final proposal. I don't agree with a colleague who had previously been here for a pay phone, that it's a positive thing that the promoter, representatives of the ministry say themselves that this is not a very good law. I don't think it works out for them, because even in the first reading, we should come up with more concrete proposals, proposals that are already, remarks that are kind of unsettled and visible through public debate, through the discussion of experts, and that in this proposal we should already come up with some corrected things tomorrow, the provisions that would still add up through this debate, so I don't agree that it's very positive and it doesn't really go very well with them. In particular, in Article 33, you state as an area of family work. The family is actually a unit, the category of users and the family can work in different areas and the family is also listed as the content of the activities of social work, so it is unnecessary to guide the family as areas of work. Here, ultimately, this is only part of the illogicalness that we hope the proposer will consider and respect and amend until the final law, so in that sense the SDP club will be abstention in voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93805	Thank you, too. Mrs. Vesna Pusic, in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, a few colleagues and colleagues. I wouldn't mind it being just a woman's law in terms of debate because it's a truly dominant woman's profession, very demanding, very difficult and unfortunately very underrated. And if nothing at all, this is a good opportunity for us to talk about this and the profession once and for all, and from that point of view, I'm glad that this came on the agenda, that somehow this profession is mentioned, and that profession starts to think about it. In my opinion, that's the best part of the law that he's put on the agenda. So the proposal for a law on the activity of social work begins with some very high goals. Among other things, improving the quality of social work activities, harmonising with modern scientific settings, clearer regulation of the conditions for the performance and termination of the exercise of activities, the rights and obligations of professional training, better organisation of the exercise of activities, the extension of public powers of the social workers chamber, the creation of conditions for improving professional competences, the reduction of administrative burdens under which social workers are today. And then to cite a whole series of what's being represented here as a definition of new activities that social workers do. Knowing this topic from the inside, given that I have taught between other and social workers for years, the main problem of social workers is money, the number of users of a social worker and professional training, or opportunities, by giving conditions for professional training. According to these numbers that you listed in this social worker law that works in public services, 240 users are grossly waste on a social worker. And that tells you about the total problem. After that, you can put yourself on your head. These are not small problems, each of these 240 cases is very often not only the fate of one person but the fate of the family, fate, as I know, and the future of the family, or children in that family sometimes up to the level of struggle for life. As you know in many of these cases, which were cases led by social workers eventually came a femicide on the rise in Croatia, not to say domestic abuse. These are all unusually difficult problems that need not be easily understood. And 240 of these cases per person. Now try to imagine the role of this social worker, i.e. the most common social worker, driving people crazy, I think it's just too much, too much of a burden for one person, and that's not a profession that people rush into because it's not very well paid, there's no high social status, and from that point of view, it's perhaps a key problem that we should deal with and talk about before we even talk about what this law is about. I initially read you these eight goals that are listed here. Then a whole series of, for example, descriptions of the activities introduced by this law, which are, in fact, the majority of which are either repeated or unnecessarily cited. For example. One new activity is case management. Anyone who's ever done social work has been running cases because it's an integral part of it, it's a job. It's a job these people do, they take the case and run it, trying to solve it or at least mitigate the consequences. So what is listed here under that category of additional or more clearly defined activities because it is one of the objectives listed, the objectives of this law is to defacto reregulation of something that is real life, what these people are doing, and they simply need to be admitted that everything that enters into work related to social cases and for their handling these cases is an integral part of their work and there is no such ministry or list that will be able to cover everything these people do. But of course everything about working with clients is and should be much more important than administration. Although this does not make it clear, it is declared that the administration will be reduced but it is not clear how it will be reduced. However, when you read everything and look at it, it seems that instead of all the lofty goals listed two are the main objectives of this law. It's one thing for the board of directors to be inserted into the chamber by someone from the ministry and someone from the social workers' association. In other words, someone from a competitive way of saying association or organization. And now more members and members of the chamber do not choose the board of directors and decisions do not make most of the people they have chosen but if you add up the number of board members, the minority of those people they have chosen, if they win, or if they get that minority on their side, representatives of the ministry and these Croatian social workers' associations or social workers' associations. So, without any assumption or de facto at all, irrelevantly, is there going to be someone who is going to be malicious or not, a autonomy is being taken away from a professional chamber and we see just the circuses in the medical chamber, so we see a situation where as soon as it starts with these professional organizations, especially in these chambers that gather such sensitive professions, the way in which when they take away professional autonomy is actually counterproductive. So, the fundamental purpose of this law is to put someone from the ministry and someone from a competitive organisation in the management board of the chamber instead of the elected members of the chamber, and the second is to give the chamber one right that might seem to me in this case even in conflict with another law, and I will immediately quote it here, which tells you about the recognition or nostrification of a diploma, but at the same time it takes away the right to regulate professional training itself, what the chamber de facto would be competent, therefore, the chamber cannot be competent to recognise academic diplomas, even by law cannot be competent. But she can be competent to admit and organise professional training. And what this law does is, in a very vague way, determines that the chamber, in fact, is transferred to the chamber the right to recognise diplomas or qualifications. So, as far as recognition of diplomas and qualifications is concerned, the situation is next. Academic recognition of diploma by law is within the jurisdiction of universities, universities and higher schools. The professional recognition of diploma is legally within the competence of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. And then the recognition of specializations and expert exams is in the jurisdiction of resolution ministries and professional organisations, namely the chamber. Therefore, from what is written here, it is not clear to me either whether the chamber is thought to recognise diplomas that the law cannot or will acknowledge, for example, further professional training or additional specializations that everyone can go to, but it will not only be able to organise, but it will be organised by the ministry. I don't see why the law on the one hand is bringing down something that the chamber can't work on the level of the chamber, which is the recognition of the diplomat by what it looks like here because its professional training as the chamber can operate by law is de facto regulated by the ministry. The purpose of the whole law is, therefore, to strengthen the role organised to say, policies in the professional business of social work. The GLAS and HSU club will not support this law, but given the very distressed social workers, we recommend that by the second reading you really try to do something with this law to simplify the whole procedure, which will recognise the professional competences of the chamber where it can do something and it is indeed professional training and where you will consult with other laws relating to the rules of nostrification or recognition of any academic, diplomat acquired abroad, so in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93807	Thank you, too. Now we're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Miro Bulj, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93808	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with an associate. Before us is the Social Labour Activity Act, 2.0 in order to be able to call, so after 2011, in 2018 the newer version, which in its opening work accepts a new improved definition of social work activity, is incorporating it into a law that has three basic works. So the first part talks about the content of the social work activity, the second part talks about the activities of social work and the third part talks about the activity of the chamber, which was a lot of talk during previous colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about a law that regulates a particular profession, then it would be good if all these laws that regulate certain professions were in some way uniform, that I primarily think about the Law on Psychological Activity, the Law on Educational Rehabilitation Activity and, of course, the law we're talking about today, the Law on Social Labour. It is very important to determine therefore what levels of competence are, it is necessary to make the distinction of thinking between first-degrees and magistrates, or masters of social work and social policy, I think that by the second reading we could do a little clearer what the difference is and in fact there were also speeches here, differences in level of responsibility, which is done by the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, and which is done by the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers. Some incorrect claims have been made here, primarily if we are talking about the board of directors, so in no way does this bring any injustice to the elections because if we take into account the president, the vice president, the 5 elected members, 1 member of the association and 1 member of the ministry, then we see that this ratio is 7:2, so it does not change the influence of people who are directly elected to the election assemblies for the authorities of the chamber. What we can discuss, so here is exactly the Croatian Association of Social Workers, so we all know that it is a roof association that brings together social workers but it is an NGO. What if we have 3 social workers' associations, if two other social workers' associations are established, then maybe it's to be that association that's representative of social workers, right, if you decide to remain one of the representatives of the association. Also, there have been talks here about the recognition of diplomas, I think it is about lack of information, there is well known who is doing the certificate of diploma, but here we must take it, that is, the other laws, so the adoption of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications in all chambers, in the Croatian medical chamber, in the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine when someone comes from abroad and wants to get a job in Croatia, he has to take the exam in the chamber to recognise the qualification that he could work as a social worker in the Republic if he comes from Germany or BiH, or I don't know from where. Therefore, this does not change anything and I do not see any error relating to Article 54 which states, among other things, that the chamber decides on the procedures for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications as the competent authority in accordance with the specific regulation, that is one of the bodies which it decides before the final decision is made. In all chambers there are courts of honor, it was previously referred to as a disciplinary court, so far it has been left out so that I think that there are those, we hope that such strict procedures will be as little as possible but unfortunately they happen and I think the law should provide that there are also bodies to adopt disciplinary measures. There have already been talks so that it is impossible to conduct the congregation, and then that article will surely change until the second reading. And I'd say here in the end, so it's a question of permission. There is a general permit, if there is a general permit, then there must be a special or special one, otherwise it would be enough just to use the concept of pass. I think it is necessary because for certain parts, let's say the palatable care is in an ever greater and larger momentum and social workers who have completed only social work studies, they are not professional enough and competent enough, they have to carry out additional education, additional education and therefore it is necessary for the Croatian Association of Social Workers to issue a special permit and then these social workers will be able to work on it. There's also a question, so we've already mentioned, here's 19 hours, we're talking about a law relating to 500,000 inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, and if we take into account 80 CZSS for about 1100 social workers, it's not 240 but a little more social worker cases, so it's a very important law and a very important profession so it would be better if this wasn't the last point, but well, someone would say that every law depends on who's dealing with it, it's the most important thing for him. So here's some kind of thinking. I think this proposed Law on social work activity is an improvement in relation to the first version, that some minor technical changes are needed but what is important, so the content of the Social Labour Act is being struck in the srid, and I believe that until the second reading and some technical things will be complemented and that we will then be able to support this law in peace of mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93809	I thank my esteemed colleague Cellic for this debate. Next debate, esteemed colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93810	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. It was nice to hear our colleagues debate today, including from other clubs. It is not bad to hear some things that can be discussed or somehow built into them until another reading. I was particularly pleased when they spoke positively about social workers, especially those who work in social care. There used to be a bill here where it wasn't really spoken up, and it was actually all about the backs of such social workers, not really understanding the work and the conditions in which they work, and I won't even talk about professional training and education as well as their incomes. I am on the proposal of this law, I think I read correctly, and this really serves to improve the quality of the probability of social work itself, and that is actually the reason for the proposal of this law that we will now discuss in this first reading in order to regulate the conditions for the performance and self-distribution of the activity as well as the rights and obligations of professional training. So it should be said here clearly and loudly that these are actually social work affairs and inform the public about it, and they are very much, as far as social workers are concerned from consulting, from social mentoring, from self-vision, from psycho-social assistance, from integration of social work, from early intervention, from social planning, from community support, and from a replica relating to mediation, from family mediation it does not refer to divorces, but to family life, the quality of life in the family and all members of that family. So she serves as a prevention because of various risks that can arise and I think that's very good. Some of the colleagues spoke and rightly talked about some of the information that exists in the context of this law where you yourself wrote through the analysis of the bill itself that it was 353,000 users, i.e. 1408 social workers, and really when you share it, it turns out that every social worker is about 240 cases. Of course, it's a huge and too large number since I've met with it in my life I know it's a much larger number, especially in the larger centres of Rijeka, Osijek, Zagreb, Split, Dubrovnik or Zadar, while in smaller areas this number is much smaller. So from that, care should be taken of such matters, especially when it comes to education and training of social workers themselves. The fact is also, and it says in this report, that in the chamber the number of social workers is somewhere around 2085 that are listed in that directory and about 70% are actually doing social care. The fact that this law actually allows this section to be professionalized in the chamber, that these social workers can do private practice and that it was said that instead of now this license is given a general permit. Perhaps we should also listen to examples of another club here today that said that those licences that already exist, that they should not be further administered, but that they should be recognised as such through the directory of the chamber itself. It is also interesting to note that no social worker from the register of the chamber itself performs an independent activity, which means that today we are under new conditions after entry and as a full member of the EU that certain circumstances have changed, and that is how I look at the proposal itself of this law. What I know reliably, and we as advocates were getting, it was 144 demands related to the nostrification of foreign diplomas. The fact is that Mrs. Pusic also said that she did not understand how and in what way the chamber should nostrate certain diplomas from abroad, and that this is not the Law on professional activities and recognition of foreign diplomas, I think that it is wrong and I think that the chamber should actually give its opinion in order for the agency to nostrate those diplomas. But it is also a fact, and this should be said here publicly because of all those who have submitted those requests, that they should be harmonised because of the demands of the chamber, i.e. competences which do not have under these professional, or qualifications that they have received outside the Republic of Croatia. So that's something to think about when we talk about this law, and if something can change until the second reading, it would be good to have it happen. Something about the law was said by Mr. Varda, and I think it should be respected about the statutes, that is, the board of directors and the actions of the majority. I will look at only one article in 65, so perhaps because of transparency I should add item 3 which would publish the report of the chamber, which is often asked by the members of the chamber, would also happen on the websites. So at the end of the ministry to be published on websites, I think it's up to the second reading and it's possible to make it really cost nothing. What caused me to be puzzled by listening to the debates if you see in the very proposal of this law and these analyses, as far as I know, there were 62 proposals, of which there were 5 principle proposals, all the others concerned nomotechnics, i.e. amendments to articles. They were accepted or partially accepted, all others were rejected, but it should also be said that in the working group itself and in the interested public that the academic community participated, that civil society associations participated, that the participation seemed to me that the student centre I read from the Faculty of Law, the Croatian Association of Social Employees, the Chamber itself, the Ministry of Demography and other central bodies. Therefore, I believe in their competences and believe in what they did as a working group coming to the plenary session in the first reading, all those who wanted and were able to submit their demands, i.e. to make certain changes, if it will improve the work and quality of the social workers, i.e. the activities themselves, and I believe that this debate we heard today is also going to contribute to this and that you will be seriously discussing this in the ministry and until the second reading will actually improve the things that are being corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93811	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ante Babic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Mladen Karlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93812	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Associates, Your Honor. Here are a few words, only one extremely important law is in front of us and actually if people on the street, about which people may very little know or are not informed, numerous... Well, maybe highly educated people, when you say I'm a social worker or I work in social care, everybody thinks about homeless people, abandoned children, abandoned and so on, the poorest groups of the people who find it the hardest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, they are not aware of how broad the activity of social work is and how many areas it is carried out, from the field of social care, education, health, justice, family, humanitarian organisations, religious communities. And maybe it's right there, somehow the goal of how this area, the better, the tighter it connects, because I think at the time, when social workers, through their work, would through the centres of social care or to some other institution, be connected to the local self-government unit, with the ministry, with this, with humanitarian organisations, the Red Cross, the Caritas, I don't know, the soup kitchens, that they could do much better this function of solving these very numerous problems, and especially the welfare system is so complex. And when we see that in fact 353,000 people in 2016 alone, there were hives of welfare centres, i.e. social welfare systems, we actually see how big a problem it is, and how important it is, that we network and solve these problems together, in order to reduce them to actually achieve those key principles of social work, which is to achieve social justice, respect for human rights, social responsibilities, social diversity, and I think that these are somehow the key roles and every social state that wishes to have such, in fact, such justice, such respect for all of those particularly vulnerable groups. And that's why it's a very big task in front of social workers, and the different roles played by this law and progressed, actually increase the size of the work, and I expect that this will, of course, increase the number of social workers, in order to solve all these accumulated problems, which means improving the quality of life of citizens, development, the full potential of individuals of the family, a group of communities in society, the development of their abilities... self-help, fostering social change, developing quality available social services, promoting social cohesion, representing sensitive weaker social groups, the background of social just society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is something that is the goal of this particular and I am convinced that this law, with all these proposals and which fellow MPs have given, until the second reading, will certainly be such that it will be one of the best that has been brought before us to the Parliament. So I believe we'll all support this together, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93813	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mladen Karlic, for this debate. On behalf of the government, State Secretary, Mrs. Maria Pleikosa, final word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93814	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, and the MPs. I thank you for your constructive discussion, suggestions and remarks. As a social worker who has spent the entire working life in the profession, I am proud that today you have shown respect and understanding for the difficulties that we face in our profession, your proposals and remarks will be considered when drawing up a draft of the Final Proposal of the Law on the Activity of Social Work. As I stated, at the very beginning of the debate, the aim of the adoption of this law is to extend the public powers of the Croatian chamber of social workers, to the process of calling on foreign professional qualifications, to improve the quality of social work activities in the Republic of Croatia, and to better regulate the conditions for carrying out and suspending the exercise of activities, rights and obligations of professional training, and to organise activities. The adoption of laws, amendments and additions to the Law on Educational Rehabilitation, the Law on Psychological Activity and the Law on Social Pedagogical Activity is under way. As far as possible and respecting any activity for ourselves, we will try to level the principles of those laws. I would like to stress that this is only the first reading of the law, and I consider the debate so far a chance to correct the observed shortcomings, in order to prepare for the second reading the corresponding text with which you will hopefully all be satisfied. So in the end, once again, I thank everyone who has helped in their contributions to making the best possible... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93815	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State, Ms. Maria Pleikosa, for this closing statement. With this, we have exhausted all the debates, I conclude the debate, once again thanks to the respected State Secretary of the Ministry of Demography of the Family, Youth and Social Policy, Ms Maria Pleikosi and her associate, the Minister's adviser, Mrs Maria Barolić, on the reasons of the bill's proposals and on the responses to the debates of parliamentary representatives and MPs. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93816	Proposal for a Law on Social Labour Activities, first reading, P.Z. No. 405. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusions. First, the Proposal for a Law on the Activity of Social Labour and second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them, when setting out the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that the majority of votes 77 for, 19 abstentions and 26 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93817	We move to the following point: - Report of the Immunity Commission. I'd like a member of the Immunity Commission, the respected Mr. Antu Bačić, to report to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93818	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrades and colleagues, we have four decisions of the Mandate Immunity Commission. At the 41st session held on 20 September 2018, the Executive Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the attorney of private prosecutor Mirko Ervačić of Koritna, to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, for the criminal part of the insult from art. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the criminal section of the slander referred to in Article 1(1) and (2) shall apply. 149 paragraphs 1 and 2. Penalty law. Ivan Vilibor Sinčić is a representative of the 9th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament and based on art. 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, has immunity until the end of the parliamentary term, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it cannot be initiated or prosecuted. Following the debate, the Mandate Immunity Commission under its Rules of Procedure, unanimously with 6 votes for, proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the next decision, during the duration of the parliamentary term, is denied the authorisation to launch a criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, at the request of the authority, the private prosecutor Mirko Ervačić of Koritna, on the plea filed on 10 July 2018 by the municipal court in Karlovac for the criminal part of the insults from art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. Secondly, at the 41st session held on 20 September 2018, the mandate of the attorney of private prosecutor Darko Koren from Križevci addressed the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Mladen Madjer, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the slander referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. Penalty law. Mladen Madjer is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it shall not be able to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings. Without discussion, the Mandate-Immunity Commission unanimously proposed with 5 votes to the Croatian Assembly the following decision: "During the term of its term of office, the authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against the representative Mladen Madjer at the request of the attorneys of private prosecutor Darko Koren of Križevci under the suit filed on 21 August 2018 to the Municipal Court in Koprivnica for the criminal part of the libel referred to in Article 149(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure. The penal law." At the 41st session held on 20 September 2018, the third decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the co-legislator of the subsidiary prosecutor Maria Hrebac of Karlovac to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Sauche of the Croatian Parliament for the offence of abuse of office and authority referred to in Article 291(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Penal Code, Tomislav Saucha representative in the 9th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be open or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission found that the state's attorney's office, anti-corruption and organised crime was a solution no. CUS 259/18 of 30 July 2018 rejected the criminal application by Maria Hrebac against Tomislav Sauche. Without discussion, the Mandate-Immunity Commission unanimously proposed with 5 votes to the Croatian Assembly the following decision: "In the course of the term of its term of office, the authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against MP Tomislav Saucha shall be denied, at the request of the co-authors of the subsidiary prosecutor Maria Hrebec of Karlovac, for the offence of abuse of office and authority referred to in Article 291(1). The penal law." And last decision, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 41st session held on 20 September 2018 the request of the municipal court in Dubrovnik for permanent service in Ploča where the criminal proceedings under the private suit of Ivan Pavlovic from Ploč were conducted to the President of the Croatian Parliament for granting authorisation to continue the criminal proceedings against Vlaha Orepic of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence of Article 148(2). Penalty law. Vlaho Orepić is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. Without discussion, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposed with 5 votes to the Croatian Parliament the following decision: "During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the approval for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against the representative Vlaha Orepic at the request of the municipal court in Dubrovnik, permanent service in Ploča in the case of... No. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] K482/17 led by the private suit of Ivan Pavlovic of Ploč for the crime of disgrace referred to in Article 148(2). Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93819	I thank the member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr Anti Bačić, for this report. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. With these esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we have completed all scheduled agenda points for today. Tomorrow we will continue work at 9.30 p.m. with nine draft laws from the tax set of laws. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. The session was interrupted in 19.20 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93820	We're going to the Mandate-Immunity Commission reports now. The first is the request for authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tomislav Sauche, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. The debate is concluded, I am giving the vote of the motion for a decision which reads: "In the course of the term of the parliamentary term, the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against MP Tomislav Saucha shall be denied, at the request of the co-author of the subsidiary prosecutor Maria Hrebac of Karlovac, for the offence of abuse of office and authority referred to in Article 291(1). Penalty law. Please, let's vote. I find that most 90 votes for and 2 abstentions have been decided as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. We are now going to the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on a request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Mladen Madjer in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote of the motion for a decision which reads: "Darko Koren of Križevci, acting on charges brought on 21 August 2018, shall be denied the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Mr Mladen Madjer at the request of the attorney-in-law of the private prosecutor Darko Koren of the Križevci on the basis of an action brought on 21 August 2018 to the Municipal Court in Koprivnica for the criminal part of the slander referred to in Articles 1 and 2. Penal Code." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 96 for and 1 vote, has been abstentioned that a decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivan Vilibor-Sinčić of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote of the motion for a decision which reads: "In the course of the term of the term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Willibor-Sinčić, at the request of the attorney-in-law of private prosecutor Mirko Ervačić, from Coritna, on the appeal brought on 10 July 2018, to the Municipality court in Karlovac for the offence of the offense referred to in Articles 147 and 2 and the criminal part of the slander referred to in Articles 149, paragraphs 1 and 2. Penal Code." Please, let's vote. I find that 97 votes for the decision taken unanimously as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. And last item today Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on a request for authorisation for the continuation of criminal proceedings against Vlaha Orepić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote of the motion for a decision which reads: "During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against the representative Vlaha Orepic at the request of the Municipal Court in Dubrovnik, permanent service in Ploča, in the case of the business number K-482/17, which is being brought under the private suit of Ivan Pavlovic of Ploč for the criminal act of disgrace referred to in Article 148(2). The penal law." Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 99 votes for the decision taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. This is what we came to the end of the vote. Now we have more club debates, free speech. And we will continue on Wednesday, October 3rd, by proposing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 421. All I'm asking now is that those who want to leave the assembly and get back to work. It's the 13th.59 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93821	We now move on to: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission in the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against agent Josip Djakic Please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to submit a report to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 42nd session held on 4 October 2018 the request of the attorney-in-chief of private prosecutor Claude Jambrosic from Zagreb to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Josip Djakic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence referred to in Articles 147 and 2. Article 149(1) and (2) of the Penal Code and the Defamation of Defamation Penalty law. Josip Djakić is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, having immunity until the end of the parliamentary term and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament, cannot be initiated or prosecuted. Without discussion, the commission is based on Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously, with 6 votes in favour, proposes to the Croatian Parliament that the following decision be denied, during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against Representative Josip Djakic at the request of the attorney-in-law of the private prosecutor Claude Jambrosic of Zagreb in an action brought on 18 September 2018. Article 149(1) and (2) of the Penal Code and the Defamation of Defamation The Penal Code, not to read the whole argument, means it is a private lawsuit against MPs in the Croatian Parliament and in that sense, the Commission proposes not to remove immunity from the parliamentary representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93823	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and open the debate. Anybody want to take a word for it? No one, I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. It's a break by 3:00, and then we'll continue on the next agenda, and that's the point of the proposal to raise the question of trust. Milan Kujundzic, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at 3:00, thank you. MEETING IN 14.49 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93824	The report by the mandate-immunity commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Josip Djakic, a representative at the Croatian Parliament, concluded the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision which reads: During the term of the term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Josip Djakic is denied, at the request of the attorney-in-chief of private prosecutor Claude Jambrosic from Zagreb, following an action brought on 18 September 2018. The municipal criminal court in Zagreb for the offence of an insult referred to in Article 147(1) and (2). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. KZ, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 98 for and one against the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93825	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 43rd session held on 30 October 2018, the Executive Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the prosecutor, Mr Rossanda of Pula, to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivan Vilibor Sinčić of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament and for the criminal offence referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. Penalty law. Ivan Vilibor Sinčić is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. Without discussion, the Mandatory Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 6 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament: During the term of its term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Ivan Vilibor Sinčić shall be denied at the request of the attorney-in-law of the private prosecutor Rosanda of Pula on 23 October 2018 to the municipal court in Pula for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Penalty law. A brief explanation, not to read in full, is a private lawsuit and, in any case, as so far, we, as a commission, suggest that immunity be not lifted in this case for MP Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93826	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 43rd session held on 30 October 2018, the Executive Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the prosecutor, Mr Rossanda of Pula, to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivan Vilibor Sinčić of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament and for the criminal offence referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. Penalty law. Ivan Vilibor Sinčić is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. Without discussion, the Mandatory Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 6 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament: During the term of its term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Ivan Vilibor Sinčić shall be denied at the request of the attorney-in-law of the private prosecutor Rosanda of Pula on 23 October 2018 to the municipal court in Pula for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Penalty law. A brief explanation, not to read in full, is a private lawsuit and, in any case, as so far, we, as a commission, suggest that immunity be not lifted in this case for MP Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93827	Thank you very much. I thank the President of the Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. We're closing the debate. And we'll vote on this wheel when the conditions are met, probably tomorrow. Since we have been very effective and a series of colleagues who have been registered has given up and is not present in the hall, we will now take a break by 1 p.m. when, according to the Rules of Procedure, we have a free speech. After that, after the free speech, there will probably be a break by 3:00 again because the next item is announced at 3:00, so it would be incorrect for us to start one, either before it is announced or announced by the following Rules of Procedure. Here, thank you very much. ... Here, clubs, clubs aren't very good, clubs aren't very excited about it and I'm afraid it won't work out that way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. MEETING IN 12.07 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-26-0.u93828	And we are now going to the final point, the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. The debate has been concluded, so I am voting on the proposal of the Decision, which reads, during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to initiate the criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, at the request of the attorney-in-law of the private prosecutor Rohit Rosanda of Pula, on the basis of an action brought on 23 October 2018 to the municipal court in Pula for the criminal offence of the libel referred to in Articles 149 and 2 of the Penal Code. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 76 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. This is what we came to the end of the vote.
