ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u65989	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP club because of the state of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u65990	I'm a colleague of Lenart's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u65991	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS club regarding environmental problems in Moslavina.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u65992	Okay. A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u65993	On behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, I'm looking for a break to discuss the submission submitted by the Franak Association in the Constitutional Court against the Criminal Court, the High Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u65994	A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u65995	So I'm asking for a break, Mr. President, 10 minutes to talk about the censorship of the editorial in the Croatian media.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u65996	Okay. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u65997	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, I seek a 10-minute break on the occasion of Stepinchev's holiday to remember the blessed Alojzi Stepinc archbishop of Zagreb and the Cardinal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u65998	A colleague of the Ice creams.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u65999	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST club of independent lists on the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u66000	Ninety-fifty, we're back to work. Thank you. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u66002	Thank you, Mr. President. We asked for a break on behalf of the SDP club because we wanted to talk about worrying build-up of problems in the health system, problems that are not being solved, which is why the health care system is not only stagnating on us but also backward. Today we also have reasoned evidence of such a claim. As you know in the report of the European Health Consumer Index, even though we did not need them to know for ourselves, the quality and availability of health care have dropped. So at this point, waiting lists are growing, citizens are becoming increasingly difficult to reach hospital specialists' services, longer waiting for operational procedures, longer waiting for searches such as magnetic resonance or CT. And that's not all, it's also an alarming and high cancer mortality in Croatia, the survival of cancer patients is significantly lower in the Republic of Croatia than in the countries of our environment, or the EU. Why? When we talk about heart attack and stroke in Croatia, life expectancy is expected for more than three years below the EU average, rates of mortality from cardiovascular disease are almost double the EU average. So why are we at the beginning when it's working, for example. about the prevention of smoking, when it comes to the prevention of obesity, when it comes to drinking alcohol? The percentage of smokers among 15-year-olds is almost 1.5 times the European average, the obesity rate has increased by 50% among children. So why is it that patients with cancer medicines are more difficult to access in Croatia, for rheumatoid arthritis? Why do we have a saga about expensive drugs, why does it break over the back of sick children together? Why are we behind Serbia at the beginning of Montenegro, behind Slovenia? And then we have to add to all of this a great dissatisfaction of healthcare professionals, not just doctors, all of the health workers who make this dissatisfaction leave their country. And it is amazing that regardless of being paid to their European colleagues, actually pay is not the key reason why they leave Croatia. They leave Croatia because they are unhappy with working conditions because they are dissatisfied with human relations and generally manage the health care system. The Republic of Croatia has left 551 doctors since we joined the EU, 1454 doctors have submitted a request, so at this point we have 2,000 less specialists doctors, at this point 151 primary healthcare teams are without carriers. And the question is, how long are we gonna be standing here with our hands cut? Health funding has always been a problem for all ministers, and they've all been dealing with this problem in some way, health reform, patching holes, rehabilitating hospitals, trying something, doing something. This minister just comes down with his shoulders and says ha doesn't have enough money for everyone and we should be happy with that. We claim that with what he has and with what he has, he does not actually manage what he should. He says we'll do everything we can to improve, so it's not true. He inherited an extremely good system and a model of health funding, why didn't he continue to use it, why didn't he ultimately improve it if he needed to be improved? So one speaks, the other thinks. I could also ask, why didn't he continue the project 72 hours after detecting malignancies? Any indication it'll get better? Well, it's hard. We expect laws such as the Law on Health Care or the Law on Medicine or the Mandatory Insurance Act, no one is talking about a prevention problem that should take over and relieve the hospital system. The printer everyone copys in Europe has left or modified in a bad way, and we know who did it in the 1990s. Two days ago, the minister participated in a meeting in Westin on economy and health, and we could listen to verbs to preserve, develop, build, plan, need to be managed, but there are no concrete solutions as if the minister had become a minister yesterday, not a year ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u66003	Thank you, colleague Jerkovic, thank you. We're going to another HSS club and a respected colleague named Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u66004	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. The problem I would like to discuss is the ecological problem in Moslavina, the town of Popovaca, the town of Moslavačka Gracenica. It is a construction for the processing of hazardous waste in Sisak-Moslavina County, a bioremediation process located within the populated area, a circle of the Krosk plant in which STSI processes waste produced on wells, on their various plants to resuscitate petrol stations and perhaps even some waste that we don't even know about. It is currently requested to issue an environmental authorisation for the operation of the plant for the processing of hazardous waste, this is the last step to make this facility legal. The Moslavina Health Life Initiative has launched resistance to this kind of waste treatment plant in the middle of the heritage site. And according to the expert basis of the environmental authorisation requirements, the installation of hazardous waste is the principal disposal of hazardous waste in which the process of processing of hazardous waste is being carried out, as stated in the expert basis on page 11, the bio-remediation process itself may take 3 to 6 months depending on the concentration of polluting things. The process shall be carried out from the moment until the pollutants are reduced to an acceptable level due to the activity of the micro-organisms. The building in which this bio-remediation process takes place is a cold object that conducts the ventilation of whether natural or other modes and temperatures determines the activity of micro-organisms, so at a low temperature this process can last for more than 6 months and then it is a waste disposal rather than a waste treatment plant. The total capacity of the plant should be around 11 800 tonnes of hazardous waste per year. We know that... the dump must be at least 500 metres from the populated area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I'm talking about this because it's unreasonable for a waste treatment plant to be in the middle of a populated place. And that's what it tells you and distance. Primary school 270 meters, train station 185 meters, church 430 meters, football field 80 meters, handball playground 25 meters, Regional park Moslavačka gora 2000 meters, Nature Park Lonjsko polje 2500 meters. From this you can see where he's trying to install a dangerous waste treatment plant. Says dangerous waste is the one with the properties of carcinogenic, mutagen, irritable, explosive health. The environmental permit draft states that hazardous substances contain easily volatile... compounds, 6 mg/kg higher, compounds known to cause tumours, diseases such as leukemia, liver disease, kidney disease, even the central nervous system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If something were wrong or in order to tell the People's Dictionary "that something stinks here", shows a series of complex various metal containers in the walls to prevent a direct view of the processing plant because it is located next to the County Road 3124 Kutina-Sisak. In addition to all the above, this location also includes the disposal of railway tanks that deliver content from the INA MOL group of unknown content. Its burning is done on a torch within the circle of this processing plant and no one controls what is being burned there. It is not even mandatory under this environmental permit draft or to measure how much pollution there is from these particles floating during the treatment of this hazardous waste. This hazardous waste is sometimes mixed, evaporated into the air or dust particles floating in the air, the warehouses are open and all flying in very large distances from the processing plant itself. I'm asking you, can 80,000 kuna a year get the city of Popovaca can make up for the health of these people? The petition was collected, 623 signatures by Moslavica Gracenica locals that I have in my hand are against it but the only owner of HDZ that is in town, in the county, in the state they don't see this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u66005	Thank you. Let's move on, it's time for a respected colleague Goran Aleksic, the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u66006	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must say a few words about the submission sent by Franak to the Constitutional Court on the three constitutional lawsuits brought by the debtors who sued the banks who did not agree with them on the parameters of the criminal courts for the final judgments of the High Court of Justice, have brought constitutional charges to the Constitutional Court. So the Franak association as an interested party, as amicus leake, a friend of the court, submitted a submission explaining further what it was about. In short, what it's all about. We all know that the collective court ruling ruled that banks had negotiated unfairly and therefore no contractual provisions on how to change the interest rate and it was also decided that banks should not behave in the future. But what did the banks do? In the beginning of 2014, when the amending and supplementing law on consumer lending was adopted, Article 11(5) was defined and found that banks had to agree for all contracts in which they did not contract a variable parameter and a fixed part of the interest rate, and define the parameters, comply with the debtors and finally negotiate. The banks did nothing but 1/3 of this, they only defined these parameters and then informed the debtors of the most ordinary postal memos afterwards. So they unilaterally and out of contract intervened at the interest rate again and did exactly what they were ordered to do at the High Commercial Court never to work again. Afterwards, on the initiative of Franak, the debtors went into the lawsuits, and these infringements against the banks, because the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act defined that a bank which did not contract with the debtor of the parameter could be punished by a penalty of between 80 000 and 200,000 kuna. Infringement courts were also first indicting those penalties, so that in October 2016, apparently, based on the lobbying of banks or their devils, the High Violent Court decided that banks were not to blame if, at the latest, on 31 December 2013, they notified the debtors of the parameters, therefore out of contract. That's terrible. It's a 2,000-year-old beating of Croatian and Roman law. Croatian law is not 2,000 years old but Roman law is 2,000 years old. The High Court of Infringement, crushed Croatian Roman law, and I have here a severe torment obtained by the High Court of Violence, where he says that banks that have defined outside the contractual parameters did not contract them with debtors are not criminally responsible. That's terrible. And because it is so terrible, the Franks did not give up seeking justice and therefore the Constitutional Court, there are now 3 constitutional lawsuits that must be discussed, which must be considered and must be decided by those three constitutional suits, it is required to abolish the acquittal for the banks which the High Court has brought on the basis of the violation of Croatian law and the ruthless prosecution of Croatian law. I often say that the judiciary is doing its job, however, when I say that the judiciary is doing its job well, I mean the citizens of the courts. Violent courts don't do their jobs, you'd even say that criminal courts, these lower courts, and they'd like to do their jobs, but that doesn't allow them a high court of law. Because of this, I appeal from this place to the Constitutional Court to react urgently and to bring my own words, I will not re-educate, but I believe that this right will benefit, in favour of the rule of law, and that word is necessary urgently, because the misdemeanors against the banks are getting old 1.4 this year. And based on these misdemeanor procedures, that all debtors have filed criminal charges, it could have been received in the Croatian budget in total about 10 billion kuna. Unfortunately, that's not going to happen, but at least we can determine that the banks are in illegal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u66007	Let's move on. Representatives' club Independent for Croatia. Dear colleague Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u66008	Dear colleagues, there is a taboo topic, a number of taboo topics that are constantly ignored in the media space, where our media are, in fact, under heavy impact, individual journalists, editorial policies. There will be talk of something that has never been mentioned in the Croatian Parliament, which is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u66009	Comrade Glasnović, just a second. Sir, with the camera, I beg you, do not enter the benches, please be on the side.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u66010	... This, this terrorist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nothing like this, then I'll keep going, like this. And there's a lot of things that are being prevented, like archives, archive openings that are archives in Belgrade, it's being ignored, we know what's down there, who's moving the money out of the '90s. Mr. and other things, I don't want to talk about them. But here's the editorial policy, it's not good in Croatia, and politicians don't say things, because if they were telling the truth, they'd lose half the electoral body. Now, no one's saying that we're still in transition and no one's talking, there's Mr. Petrov about the metal heritage of that one party system, which transgenicly inherited. Here, this metal assembly has a devastating social impact on us. He didn't just leave a corpse to the former system, the inefficient judiciary doesn't make a mess but... Brains, this is what one Russian, Zinoviev, wrote about it for our lumens, journalists today, is what Zinovievev wrote about this mental mind, homos and ethics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's how this man, as it seemed, in this man homos and ethics, homo jugoslavnicus, lack of initiative, avoiding taking individual responsibility for anything. This person is trapped, incapacitated, devoid of initiative, unable to think critically. She expects from the demands, to secure everything in the state. She can't and won't take her fate into her own hands. We watch it every day. You remember that, I love this regime, the pay comes, and I lie. Second point,... according to joint assets and job theft as personal use, and for profit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, a little bit of work, a lot of stealing, everything... Everything belongs to me, it could be for the HSS, here maybe this one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But our gesture was nobody's. Here, now we go to the media, strict censorship and information in the media, I've already mentioned that. Obedience or passive acceptance of everything the government imposes, total silence, indifference in the general population. Here, you also have, I put it, go to church and if God doesn't believe, in any case that it exists. We're fake Christians, it happens all the time here. You have a head up, who still thinks it's... Protector of Croatia, not this Holy Joseph. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm moving on here with that. What you're looking at, look around you, that mess in our country. Take a look at the City of Zagreb, the graphite, so you don't have a whole conversation, which isn't torn down in Zagreb. Phone caller. I've never heard the notion of illegal construction here. It's an unknown notion out there. You've got fake diplomas, wild dumps, we're talking about environmentals, no one's controlling it. This homos and ethics, homo Yugoslavs, he has a double, called homo-corruption, corruption. And what do I define corruption? The definition of corruption is in Latin, outcast, moral decadence, that's it. There are such heads here in our country. You have one down there, he's a professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences, Stevo Djoraskovic, who tells us he's giving lectures to us and tells us that Croatia is a failed social experiment, not the one he came out of, the country that left behind the former, economic collapse and totally ruined moral and ethical code. I wrote something today, at four addresses, it's an illustration frame, which I'm going to hand over to our... behind me, this went to the Presidents of the Republic, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a framework for future illustration. I expect a response from these institutions. Secondly, this translation of homos and ethics, interested in, from psychologists to further, is available to everyone, ask me and you will get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u66011	Thank you. It is now up to the respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u66012	In this House, we're talking about different topics, we're talking about different people, we're talking about different events. Unfortunately, I dare say more often we're corrective, and we're very rarely proactive. We often criticize, very rarely mention people with whom our country and our people should be very proud. It's a great pleasure to talk from this place about a man who's very much in charge of our people and our country. In fact, tomorrow we mark the day when our cardinal, Blessed Aloysius Stepinac, left us. Let me remind you who the Blessed Aloysius Stepinac was. He was born in 1898 in Bezharic near Krasic, and died on the tomorrow of 1960. He was the archbishop of Zagreb and the cardinal of Zagreb. He spent his childhood in his hometown, and during World War I he participated in fights on the Italian and Thessaloniki fronts. And he was even wounded and a prisoner of war. After his studies in Rome in 1930 he was appointed priest of the Zagreb Archdiocese and founded the Karitas of the Zagreb diocese, which he was always particularly proud of. In 1934, he was appointed bishop, and the bishop of Zagreb became archbishop in 1937. He was a bright and tireless preacher of God's word. He attended his vast diocese promoting Catholic action, Caritas, and godly devotion to the virgin Mary. We are particularly sensitive to his actions during World War II. Some critics resent him for working in World War II. However, he looked forward to the creation of the Croatian state, but in May 1941 he became the main critic of the Croatian state, that is, its policies. He was a real shepherd then, I'd say. He helped the persecuted and the suffering, taking care of the exiled, the hungry, the children, helped the numerous priests who were exiled during that wartime nightmare. He has protested many times against the persecution of Jews and other minorities, and the implementation of Nazi laws. In his 30st year speech, forty-third year in front of the Zagreb cathedral, he condemned any discrimination. Today, many critics Aloyzi Stepinco forgot that he was always on the trail to protect the weakest, the weakest, the ones in need. However, after coming to the authorities of communists who sought the separation of the Catholic Church in Croatia from the Vatican which he normally refused he was sentenced to 16 years in prison of which he spent 5 years in Lepoglav and the rest in house detention in his native Krasic. There he died in 1960 with the fact that in the meantime he was in '52. the year was declared Cardinal. In 1998, what is very important to us in Mary, Pope John Paul II, declared him blessed. We all know that today the process of his canonization is under way, that we all look forward to him becoming, or being declared sacred. What I would conclude if there were a man who, by his work, would owe his people, my homeland, then it was a blessed Alojsius Stepinac man who was a guideline to our people in the darkest periods of communism, and today when we face some new problems, I would dare say even more, much more. At the end of this place I can finish this speech about Aloysia Stepinc with a single recall santo subito!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u66013	We're going to the last debate. Dear colleague Bozo Petrov on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u66014	Who are the fellow MPs to say goodbye to these days? How many languages? You have three choices. You can say goodbye to the young, you can say goodbye to those responsible for the chaos in Agrokor, you can tell yourself because you've set you up. But I'll take my turn. Since you always put yourself first, I doubt you'll resign because of what you've done. Those who created chaos in Agrokor, and here I primarily think of Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. You depend on them; there would be none without them. Well, there's that possibility. Today you speak goodbye, good by, aufvidersen, adio, to Psvidanie to the young. You tell young people, even though you'd like me to keep my mouth shut, I won't keep my mouth shut. The silence is not an incendiary, it's an approval. And that's why I'm going to remind you, I'm going to remind you all the time. I'll remind the Croatian public what happened, that everyone knows and that they don't forget, and then I'll start in a row. You didn't want to hear about Agrokor. MOST forced you to open that topic in the government. You did not want to hear what Ivica Todorovic was doing, I was eventually forced to file a criminal report. We gave the possibility of a clean start for the Croatian economy by voting for the famous lex Agrokor to prevent economic collapse and that these companies could normally enter the market. What did you do after that? After that, the Most asked for three commissioners, you refused. Most wanted a different way of funding, you refused. MOST has sought a different model of restructuring in a way that there are a number of independent Croatian companies, you are creating a new Agrokor. What did you do after that? Breaking up with the Most. And what did you do after that in cooperation with the CNS? You've introduced a roll-up model and therefore created so many huge loans in Agrokor that you can't think of to replace Anta Ramljak, you've brought a scavenger fund for whose property you don't even know whose it is. You have abolished the Investigative Commission so that no one would happen to hear who he is, how he helped Ivica Todorovic create this kind of Agrokor. You're giving millions of dollars today to your advisors in Agrokor. And because you don't care today in chaos and verse is left to own and manage tens of thousands of agricultural acres of drinking water, while you talk about stability. Yes, I will quote you “we don’t know it. ” Well, I can accept that you don't know, you've been on the road for a year, you don't know that, but here you are now. What are you going to change? Who are you going to say goodbye to? Do you really think that people who sang in the square of the 1990s and then went to the front lines of the front line, fought for let's bear with it, just that money or money for a just Croatia that will be the measure of all, and not the measure of party elites. I don't know, you know that. And I will tell you that the Croats did not fight for this kind of Croatia, the Croats did not fight for some kind of Škegra, Linići, Dalići, Plenkovići, Cacici and similar say that the more millions of amounts of advisors are ok, that the scavine funds are ok, that the sale of Croatia is ok, while... children must go out of Croatia. The Croats didn't fight for it. That's why I'm curious when it's enough, when it's enough? When are you gonna start talking I know instead of not knowing? When will you stand by your words? And so I ask you, in the end, who are you going to say goodbye to these days to the young men responsible for the chaos in Agror or yourself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u66015	Let's get to the agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. The first item is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, first reading, P.Z. No. 267. And now there are four hands. I didn't see the exact order, so we'll let the lady go first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70375	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Good morning! Thank you for this opportunity to explain the amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. The Croatian Qualifications Framework is the most important tool, the most important instrument for harmonising labour market needs and future needs and the world of education. Furthermore, it is also the most important tool for harmonising qualifications obtained in the Republic of Croatia with those obtained in the European space. Before I present the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, allow me to further remind myself of the reasons why this law was adopted here in the Croatian Parliament in 2013 and after four years of working on starting ideas and conceptual grounds since 2009. So this is a very important law not only for Croatia but also for harmonising our qualifications with the Europeans. The initiative is, in fact, for the development of these National Qualifications Frameworks, a European initiative that first appeared in higher education through the Bologna Process and the creation of a qualification framework for the European Higher Education Area, which is then associated with the National Qualifications Framework for Higher Education. It was then accepted by EU member states as an idea for the creation of a European Qualifications Framework for Lifelong Learning in which the National Qualification Framework is linked and which includes qualifications at all levels of education and training, which is important to highlight, means at all levels. In fact, Member States have committed themselves to edit their qualification systems in such a way as to make qualifications clear, to be easy to understand, and so that, instead of complicated names of academic names that appear in different European qualifications systems, a level which is a numerical value related to the qualification itself. In this way, not only would understanding be simplified but mobility would be made possible for the purpose of working, learning, unloading and removing certain administrative obstacles. In addition, such an approach also allows the evaluation of previously acquired competences for which there is no formal evidence precisely with the application of these certain standards for the acquisition of a qualification. This is a vision that European countries had and, of course, like all these visions, it was one that was envisaged and thus a longer-term development process was achieved, but the truth is that now very mature stages of development are both national qualifications systems and integration with the European Qualifications Framework. The most important criteria for integration and the criteria for integration are described with measurable learning outcomes, and these learning outcomes are set at the appropriate level with the application of what we call study levels descriptions, which is that as a contribution to this Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework when it was adopted in 2013. At the time of such an approach becoming mature in the EU, countries that have estimated to have regulated qualification systems have placed their qualifications on certain levels and have made a link to the European Qualifications System. On the other hand, the country, including Croatia, which did not have a developed qualification system, recognized this opportunity as a reform for editing, improving the qualification system first in higher education and then throughout the vertical. The relevantness of qualifications in relation to the labour market is achieved by applying a methodology in the development of study and education programmes to analyse the competences needed to carry out certain occupations based on insight into the current and future projection of the necessary skills for new occupations. Such competences are then entered into standards of interest, on the basis of the standard of interest, standards of qualifications are developed and educational and study programmes are then associated with a certain standard of qualifications. Of course, all qualifications standards or all study programmes or all educational programmes associated with a certain qualification standard are not necessarily equal. This is, of course, the important thing to do because, in addition to covering a certain standard of qualifications, everything that is shown there, additional learning outcomes, or any educational study programme, want to be identified and thus enable students to choose an appropriate educational or study programme. So this instrument also represents an important demographic measure because it allows our students, our students, to be given qualifications that are relevant not only for the labour market in Croatia but also has this development component for future needs, projecting future needs or personal needs. With these arguments of the Croatian Qualifications Framework as a reform element, Croatia has also provided in EU funds hundreds of millions of kunas that have still been intended for some are intended to develop standards of interest and standards of qualifications, then also review study and educational programmes at all levels. And rightly when these European funds for the development of standards and revision of study programmes began to be used, HKO gained its higher, more important visibility in Croatian space. However, in the meantime, I would say that these discussions that have occurred and which have been particularly active in certain parts of the academic community and since then have also shown a certain lack of understanding of the basic ideas and objectives of the Croatian Qualifications Framework and have neglected its reform potential. What should be pointed out is that one of the important points of the dispute was the distinction between professional and university studies, but we must be aware that in Croatia we have built a binary system, we distinguish university and professional studies, and we are not talking about whether professional or university studies are more important or more valuable than we are developing this system in a way that, for all of these qualifications, for all of these studies, we also distinguish the type of these studies and also the level of competences that students have when completing a certain level of study, university or professional, they also have what their opportunities are, which are then their employment opportunities based on these competences. So in professional studies, there is a greater emphasis on skills development, which enables more direct, faster, simpler entry into the labour market, which does not ignore the potential for continuing study or certain elements of knowledge, but in university studies there is a greater emphasis on academic knowledge, knowledge skills while it is smaller on practical skills that enable direct entry of work processes. And that should be considered. Of course, the situation with us is that neither the study programmes have developed so that this visibility should be as theoretically, so it is important to draw attention to all those who are preparing study programmes, and in this context this instrument of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, or qualifications standards, plays an important role, means that these standards are defined and that education study programmes are actually linked to such standards. What is important to say is that the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision and on the basis of the proposal for the assessment of the consent of certain provisions of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted to the Constitutional Court of the University of Zagreb, was the need to revise this law in one part. In a public debate which lasted from 7 March to 7 April 2017, there were extremely many comments, 1,850 comments, 1,271 people came forward with comments and what is important to point out that a large number of people, weighing the number of those who came forward, supported the proposal that is now contained in this amendment and the addition of the law. So the proposed legislative solution was drawn up in accordance with the positions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia using a technique no longer prescribed from which levels can be accessed, for example, through postgraduate studies, but as a condition of accession, it explicitly states that qualifications acquired from a university graduate or an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university study constitute the basis for entry into a doctoral study. The attitudes established by the Constitutional Court are further respected by strengthening the clear and unambiguous distinction of qualifications by type, meaning the introduction of the concept of species, a study that is professional or university with an already existing distinction of qualifications by level. In particular, these proposals at level 6 accommodate 2 types of qualifications and these qualifications obtained through completion of pre-graduate and professional studies and B pre-graduate university studies. While the level of 7.1. accommodation of qualifications is obtained through the completion of specialist degree studies and B university graduate studies and integrated undergraduate and graduate university studies. At 7.2. accommodations are acquired through completion of postgraduate specialist studies. Both levels 7.1. and 7.2. are linked to the level 7 of the European qualification framework. Amendments to the law in the first row were made in a way to regulate localised qualifications at different levels of HKO, in a way that prescribed a clear distinction of qualifications, according to the different types of study and educational programmes to which they are acquired. This implies the possibility that certain qualifications are different by type, and are proposed, they are associated with the same level of the Croatian qualification framework. In this way we actually prevent discrimination from students of professional studies, because if students of professional studies, who have qualifications, possess qualifications, who have the same volume, as they have qualifications of university studies, means the same duration of studies, and, on the other hand, consistent with... for a certain level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if we put them on different levels, in which case, we're sure that we're going to harm the rights of students of professional studies. I will now sum up briefly, which in this proposal is an amendment and the amendment of the law has been amended. Thus, the first conditions for the accession of all qualifications, acquired in higher education, are complemented and fully aligned with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. So, complemented, in line with the Act on Scientific Activity, High Education, because we need to know that the area, meaning study programmes, is governed by the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, not the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. The question of quality in terms of approval, accreditation, reaccreditation of study programmes is also regulated by the law on meaning, quality, science, high education, and should be taken into account, and we are at the same time as the amendments and additions to this law, which are now before you and which I believe will be supported, we are working on amendments and additions to the Quality Act, in order to more clearly position quality, both professional and university studies and, in particular, from the point of view, applied scientific research, which belong to more professional study programmes, i.e. institutions, which carry out such professional study programmes. A change has also been made to Appendix A of the Law, which also lists the outcomes, the level of learning outcomes, to better comply with the scoresheets in the European Qualifications Framework. So knowledge at level 7, where both professional and university graduate studies can, but do not have to be the basis for scientific research, i.e., entry into postgraduate, doctoral studies, there is only from the level of university studies provided, as already prescribed by the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. The provisions of the laws governing the appointment and resolution of members of the National Council for the development of human potentials, which actually provides for the Croatian qualification framework, have also been amended. Until now, this has been possible only on a personal request or in case of unconscious performance. And since the word is, however, that the National Council is a representative body, intervention has been carried out, which allows institutions, which are represented by their representatives in the National Council, to propose the resolution of their representatives before the time to which they are appointed. Furthermore, in a consistent manner, the amended provisions, which relate to the recognition and evaluation of previous learning, are in a way that respects the possibility that competences are acquired by previous learning, thus acquired, informal or informative but formal means that such competences can be recognised, that they can be valued, of course already in accordance with all the rights and categories and, of course, those institutions, which are in charge of such forms of education, and thus also of evaluations, taking into account autonomy, universities where high education is concerned, i.e. qualifications acquired at the university. We would also like to achieve the proposal for this law a plant corroding with regulations governing regulated professions, in a way that, in the case where a standard is proposed, related to an appropriate regulated profession, other than the opinion of sectoral councils, the opinion and the central authority of the state administration in charge of a particular regulated profession. So this is a brief review of what we put into this law. I thank you in advance for all the useful suggestions and I believe that we will support this law, as I said, is the most important instrument of harmonising labour market needs and projected needs with the education system, identifying qualifications within the European educational space, of course, and labour markets. And what we wanted to achieve by this law, to settle the system without being discriminated against by anyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70376	Thank you, Minister. Before moving to replicas, he would welcome our guests, students and students of the Second Economic School in Zagreb and their professors and professors... We have 11 replicas, the first one's up, the esteemed colleague Lovrinovic. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70377	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister Divjak, I fully agree with you, when you claim that the Croatian qualification framework is the most important and the programme, i.e. the instrument of harmonising the education system with the needs as we say markets, means economies etc. You mentioned all segments in your presentation and it is a very complex segment and the most important for Croatia in the long term. However, I would like to ask you if it is possible to bring Croatia's qualification framework into line with the EU in a situation where curricula reform is waiting. That's the first one. For years already, the largest political parties have only been engaged in the formation of working groups that will formulate curricular reform and replace each other. In such an environment of violence policy over the education process when people in the education system no longer know what they're doing, when we have education instead of education that you, will you be able to finally set that deadline, cut and when you're going to bring in the final document that you said you were working for. And finally another question. When we let it all go, and we really look at the curricula reform, and I think about 88% of all reasonable people will agree. Why is it that about 2% of the years, they've been attacking each other? Why don't we sit around this 98% deal with it, and then we solve the two percent. Here's an answer to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70378	Minister's reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70379	Your Honor, Your Honor, I thank you for your question. Very simple curricula reform does not stand, does not stand. So what the plan is and what we're working on is that in the autumn we enter three to five percent of schools, primary and secondary schools in Croatia with experimental implementation. In the meantime, we are getting international reviews, we are promoting programmes and we are actually working on them in this very sense, as I also represented by the law, that our students who are now or will enter primary schools have opportunities to gain competence for life, have opportunities to be competitive with their colleagues within the EU. So there's nothing standing there and we're starting from the next school year with experimental implementation in first and fifth grade primary schools and I think that's what we're talking about, what we're working on. And as you have seen we also have the support of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, we have also received a review of the Croatian language in which it has long been discussed that it is controversial, so that the curricula itself is controversial. Clearly, it is not disputed in a way that those who are thinking about content could not sit down and agree on the necessary changes. So in this sense, I also call on Parliament's representatives to support it, to change the education system in Croatia, to concentrate on what is important, and this is our student and his position not only in school to be motivated, our teacher not only has good working conditions but also to work in a way that talks less about it from political trenches as little as possible, and as much as possible from professional and content discussions and that we are all building together this school for a life that will, of course, also have the possibility of having qualifications that you have acquired in Croatia, the qualification framework recognises.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70380	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70381	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Secretary, the Assistants. We are talking about the Croatian qualification framework. Nicely said it was a prerequisite for the curicula, so when we talk about the curicula here you yourself mentioned the review of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. But I'd like to ask a few specific questions here, so I'm looking for an answer. So you said the curicula score is an average three, I'm talking about the Croatian language curicula. But there were two two twos and three threes on that scale, so that's a score of 2.6. So we can't talk about the trinity. Furthermore, academics say the following. Dogmatic approach to incoherence, inconsistency, abundance of phrases, ambiguity, numerous repetitions according to the principle of copyright paste, fatigued didactic metalingualism, and scientifically unfounded concepts. These are the objections they find in Croatian curricula. And they even say they would give a positive assessment that these changes are necessary. They listed nine major grudges. I wouldn't count all nine, but I'd just concentrate on one and please answer. Instead of the term curricula consistently use the term curricula. Why are Ministers here and you and all the other representatives in the Croatian Parliament ignoring the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts? I will repeat, Croatian academics are asking for a term that is not acceptable to the curricula and that the term curricula is finally being used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70382	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70383	Thank you very much. Thanks for asking. So when we talk about grades, it's important to say what rock is. So it's up to four. Therefore, three out of four of them I think are good grades, but I would not hold back on the number grades either, but I would say it is important that we could come to an agreement on what should be the content of the Croatian language. Of course, every review includes a particular discussion and it is being conducted on the route, meaning the reviewer or the curriculum-making group. I use curricula because it says so in our Law on Education and Education, or national framework curricula. But I would go back to this topic. We are now not talking about curricula and curricular reform, but rather talking about the Croatian qualification framework. Of course you can find a link, one important link I ask you to notice is that the Croatian qualification framework and the European qualification framework are based on competences, i.e. learning outcomes. And all the recommendations of this species that we have not only national but also Europeans use a learning outcome-based approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70384	Thank you. The third replica of the esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70385	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Divjak. First of all, let me say that I agree primarily with some of the statements that you've been making in public. I'm going to say this vividly in my own words, so the university should really be an older brother or sister to universities and high schools and help them as it is in some advanced European countries. And so I agree with you and I commend this endeavor specifically to equalise the level of qualification because, apart from the level, we have both volume and competence, and the level exclusively goes to the protection of the rights that these persons have that end. So I commend you, even though you've changed me from being president of the University of Virovitica High School and you're the fifth minister and I've changed five ministers and you've replaced me, but let me not take that for evil, I forgive you there is a Christian. You're finally another hope that this government will do well, I don't know. And now let me say about the remark I have specifically on the law. You add Article 4a may be funny to someone, it is very important to me in 4a, and it is repeated in paragraphs 2 to 6 of this formulation, only to read that part "the ability to live and work in a changing socio-cultural context according to market economy requirements". It bothers me personally, the market and the work we can put into the same level of concepts and reality, but putting life in the level of these concepts and reality is not good. I think it is deeply inhumane especially in the context of such a human law which recognises the acquisition of skills and quality and ultimately of the educational process which is also an educational process. In that sense, I think that this formulation should be changed and removed from the law because this is how you reduce a man to a market-function worker, which is not good at all. If you don't do it by the second reading, I'll try to change it with my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70386	Would you like to respond to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70387	Thank you very much. The formulations are actually the same in this law and in the Law on Science and Higher Education, so obviously we should consider each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70388	4th in a row, respected colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70389	Thank you very much, President. Hello to the minister with the associates. My colleagues and colleagues, today is a great day, a great day for 50,000 students of professional studies and 150 thousand of all who have completed professional studies. Well, the minister said that this is one law that may have passed all those daily political bickerings that are tied up for example. Now with curricula reform, so this law began to be prepared far away in 2006, continued in 2009, the final text committee was formed in 2012 and adopted in the Croatian Parliament without any vote against. So the three governments have been working on this law and perhaps its name has also contributed to being independent and there is no political pressure. In 2013, we received a law that became a fundamental reform document for a better education system in Croatia that connects education with work and ensures everyone who finishes their colleges to get competences that will enable them to work, not to sit at the Employment Service. And then a small interest group led by the Rector and Rector of Zagreb University decided to degrade professional studies, 50,000 students of professional studies and 150 thousand of those who completed those studies from their narrow particular interests. They dragged the Constitutional Court into this, and fortunately today we received a law that said not to the interested group and showed that they did not understand what the Croatian Qualifications Framework was but did not want to understand how to please a small group of people and thus demoted 50,000 students and 150 thousand who completed professional studies. That's why this is a big day for all of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70390	There's no response to the replica. Before you move to the fifth replica, just one piece of information that you can plan your time. Since we're not gonna be able to discuss all the points we've been planning for this week, there's plenty left, we'll work on Tuesday when we discuss all the points we have left this week. On Wednesday, there will be a vote in the morning and Friday also at 12:00, so you plan on next week. There's no vote today. Here's that one, so let's move on. Dear colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70391	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Greetings to the minister and distinguished co-workers of the minister. In your presentation, you said that the intention of this law, or these amendments, was to regulate the system, so that no one would be discriminated against and to link the National and European Qualifications Framework. I agree extremely with these changes of yours, and it was seen from your public statements that you recognize the elements of discrimination, especially between students of professional studies and students who completed university studies. Fifty thousand as Mr. Jovanovic said, people study in professional studies and expect equal treatment when they complete and receive a degree degree, so a graduate professional study compared to that university degree study. Many of them wrote to me by email, and I even received letters from the Youth Forum of their associations saying they still feel discriminated against, especially about the possibility of enrolment in a doctoral study. Now they feel discriminated against in this segment of enrolment in doctoral studies when they compare not only with people who have graduated university studies in Croatia but those who have completed a professional degree study in EU countries, and EU directives... prohibit this kind of discrimination. In other words, our student who graduates from graduate studies can be enrolled in Slovenia, for example, in doctoral studies, but cannot be enrolled in Croatia. Similarly, a Slovenian graduate professional study would have to be enrolled in Croatia because this is what EU directives require, and we do not allow our student to do so. So a large number of people feel that they are discriminated against and demand that in these amendments of the law, their problem, i.e., to solve, be equalized to them, as well as those from the university... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70392	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70393	Thank you very much for asking. So, the conditions for enrolment in doctoral studies are completed here a university degree study, i.e., integrated, which is actually a provision from the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, equally, so that here is also responsible for the opinion, i.e., the Constitutional Court, relating to access, means postgraduate doctoral study.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70394	Next replica, dear colleague Glasnovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70395	Dear Minister, I wish you all the best. But when I hear this highly educated, I faint in Croatia, let's start with the crafts, Germany has an extraordinary system of crafts, because I was in Canada, I don't know, so that system worked. You have, people are separated from the 8th grade of the school of technical sciences, academics, colleges and crafts. The crafts are extinct in Croatia. Why are people going out? There are electricians, welders out there, you can't get a plumber in Croatia, no one will work with hands. Why? Because they're paid badly. In Croatia everyone is looking for good money, Monte Carlo lifestyle, but they have Balkan working habits. I don't insult anyone, but that's what I noticed. Turns, we can't coordinate, we can't coordinate, uh, reflect some kind of system, our particulars here. It's a specific case. Why can he do that? One problem in school is morality. You can't set standards with fake diplomas, people who teach those students, those teachers. You have an example. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, audit from outside,... For wages, they discovered 20 fake diplomas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They've been getting paid for years, you've been having an affair index, you've got 60 fake diplomas in Holding, I doubt our teachers, not everything, of course, is being terrorized. Look what I noticed, from these young people, come two classes here, every day. There are economists, I asked economists, economist classes if they ever read The Economist magazine, no one heard of it. We're... Guys. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We live in a society where they... Not just social sciences, but a total moral ethical code. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's gonna handle it? Who's gonna trust teachers in this country anymore?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70396	Would you like an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70397	Thank you very much. So, learning based on work is also something that is desirable and can be prescribed by the standard of interest, i.e., the standard of qualifications and the Croatian qualification framework is in this sense really flexible. And only vocational education was processed in the special Law on Professional Education, which was also on, the amendments and additions were discussed in this House. There's another reading waiting for us, so here's what I'm hoping, we'll have a chance to talk more professionally.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70398	Comrade Curaj, you're up next, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70399	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, just before one question, it would be brief, and perhaps to the public... This law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here we're talking about how according to that old model of ours, how everyone's talking about professional specialist studies, they get that condition, that is, the name of high professional training. And that's even with the degree. So this means this level of 7.1. or, as before was grade 7, or degree 6 and above. That's what's important, because, unfortunately, the labour market recognizes our students, or those who finish. What this introduces is this clear distinction, by type, which will later be regulated by law and that market should recognise certain different qualities, from certain students. What's my question, you mentioned now and just now in response to the replica, is that they are the basis for a doctoral study, which is a scientific legal study, which, let's say, somehow logically and implies, some scientific rather than professional education. I'd like to know what's going on with postgraduate specialist studies. Whether a professional, who has completed a specialist study, has the right to access the post-graduate, therefore, according to this new, as they would say, the unifier.spect. or something. That's what I have left in this law questionable whether, if I can't go to doctoral school, will I be able to attend this postgraduate specialist study? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70400	Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70401	Thank you very much. This is not prescribed by the law on the Croatian qualification framework, as a prerequisite in this respect, of course, the provisions relating to this are contained in the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70402	Let's move on, dear colleague Whitey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70403	Thank you very much, Your Honor. First of all, I must say, I had great expectations of you, when you came to the minister's post, because I heard nice words about you, from your acquaintances, those who know you, those who know what you've been doing in your life. However, I must express here after many months of what you've been doing and what your ministry is doing. We're talking about qualifications today, you have a day-to-day, new problems in your ministry, I'm going to mention only the removal of the loco ride, your electoral items are still unequal, so, they're taking place in a good part of the schools in the Republic, on the counter shift, so your students have to be in schools all day long, check yourself. You're talking about qualifications, and in the last 3 years 5,000 new state officials have been in love, the only qualifications they need to have, at this point is either the HDZ party card or the HNS. The last example for this is your colleague Mr. Bozikovic, who has been appointed to the General Consulate in New York, a qualification that you offer to these children, which you offer to young people. The only qualification, therefore, needed to work in Croatia, is a party card in state services. I'm going to ask you something else, if you're familiar, and the media is passing, that you're breaking the law, that your ministry is breaking the law, ignoring a textbook from Croatia for a 7th grade elementary school called "The Power of Words" by Anita Soljan, and you've been warned about that, Mr. Alavah who's here. I don't know how he can even sit here, because this isn't a place for advisors, it's a place for government representatives. And as far as I've been able to see, I've tried to fence myself, but I'm still asking you why you're breaking that law and why you're ignoring a textbook that has nothing to do with Croatian language.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70404	My fellow Whiteman, thank you. Please don't comment on the sitting of a co-worker and a co-worker from the minister because she has a right to do so. So don't put a new order in the assembly, I'll take care of it. You can't get a word in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70405	Thank you. It's hard to answer a question like this. That's all there was to it now. I can only refer to the textbook that was mentioned. The reference was made to the use of the above-mentioned textbook, which was sent to schools. Of course, in the middle of the year it would be totally inappropriate to withdraw any textbook, expose the extra cost of 10, 12000 parents especially because one simple way is to solve the use of this textbook, which is really such that it can be used as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70406	You apologized, we heard. You can't get a word from a fellow white man. There are certain rules here and no excuses. Excuse me. ... No, I didn't ask. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Let's move on, colleague Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70407	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the honourable ministers with their associates. The Croatian qualification framework is based on a European qualification framework and it dates back to something since 2004. Making quality education programmes that meet labour market needs leads to greater employability and quality of labour. Because of or based on the coherence of education programmes with European educational programmes on the labour market and labour force, professional and highly educated labour will leave and leave Croatia, and we will have to import labour that has no education on the basis of the European qualification framework. That's what I mean by the countries of the former Yugoslavia. What will they have to do, nostrate their diplomas, or will they be accepted without it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70408	Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70409	Just for a little while. So recognition of diploma is also a category that is governed by the rules and is subject to all those who do not comply with, so our frameworks are prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70410	Let's move on. Dear fellow Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70411	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor. The definition of the Croatian qualification framework is a framework in which every qualification acquired in Croatia has its place. I'm asking you now is that really true? Whether each acquired qualification in the Republic of Croatia has its place or today young after completing the study mostly go abroad. What is the feedback investment in the education system if young mass exodus go to other countries? You talked about qualifications. The question is how many of these qualifications that are being obtained today in the Croatian education system are really compatible with the Empirical knowledge, with practical knowledge where people can really do the jobs for which they were educated after completing their studies. So I think that's not the case. I believe that after young people graduate from college that they lack knowledge, that they lack empirical knowledge, and then the question arises why do they lack empirical knowledge? Empirical knowledge is lacking because the education system in the Republic of Croatia works in a way that teaches things only in mind and then reproduces that knowledge. And the better you learn that in your mind and the better you reproduce your knowledge, the more you advance in that system, and after all we have such assistants, we have those and teachers who have never worked in the real sector, but they've just learned things in their minds and then they've progressed in the education system. I just wanted to ask you a little bit more how you feel about home sculing that's been quite developed in developed countries like Great Britain, America, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70412	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70413	In fact, the very brief review of the creation of a standard of interest is about taking into account the needs of the labour market, then also projecting future needs in order to clearly formulate the standards of interest, and then the qualifications standards are actually linked to the standards of interest. When we do this, or when our standard register starts to be filled to a greater extent, and I am sure that when we accept these amendments and additions, that this will be and engage these European funds, then we will also be safer in this part of which you are talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70414	Now it's up to the committee's reporters. Do they want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first in line is on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, a respected colleague, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70415	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. So we have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. So, what has already been said, what preceded the adoption of this law is the decision of the Constitutional Court of 20 April 2016 concerning... specialist degree studies at the same level of the Croatian qualification framework as university graduates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is what follows us to respect their opinions. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework at level 7 is classified as a university degree study, a specialist degree professional study, and a postgraduate specialist study. The Constitutional Court’s decision, which stated the provision of Article 8 has been abolished in the section of the specialist degree study. Therefore, it was necessary to just pass this legislative solution, and the Constitutional Court stressed that the contested legislative solution could be in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, I repeat, because we have a dispute and correspondence related to certain higher educational institutions or universities that have different interpretations, which would lead to students who ended up with an equal number of points being clearly lower-rate students, if we are talking about professional specialist studies, this being equated because they, in their explanation, provided there was an excuse and allowed the legislator to serve specific legislative techniques that could achieve the objective of harmonising the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The justification for the placement of qualifications acquired through the completion of specialist degree studies and university graduate studies at the same level of 7.1 is within the binding law in the EU, and in the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications which requires recognition of qualifications acquired in other countries of articles as we have had the opportunity to hear in Slovenia where even a step further where students, or who have completed professional specialist studies, can continue at doctoral studies. Amendments and additions to the law in the first place were made in a way to regulate the setting of qualifications at different levels in such a way as to prescribe a clear distinction of qualifications according to different types. So the same level, but different species, and that's where we do that distinction that some might have wanted to make comments on them, so different types of study and education programs that they acquire. This implies that certain qualifications are different by type and associated with the same level of the framework. Types of higher education studies have already been defined by the Law on scientific activity and higher education, and this legislative proposal is in line with the basic education regulations governing the type of qualifications at all levels of education. Therefore, this law at the level of 6 accommodation of two types of qualifications and this qualification is obtained by completing pre-graduate vocational studies and undergraduate university studies, so what was once a higher professional prepares. If we're going to simplify that, it's those who ended up professional high school students and first-rate university students. Both B level and university graduate studies, as well as integrated undergraduate and 7.1 pardon level, acquire the qualifications of those of which we are talking about professional specialist studies, university graduate studies and integrated undergraduate and graduate university studies. At 7.2 accommodation level, qualifications are obtained through completion of postgraduate specialist studies, what I have just asked, is whether a person who has completed a professional specialist study can access a postgraduate specialist study and obtain the name in shorts what is the Union's special. So now something further, a specialist degree study, postgraduate and these are levels 7.1 and 7.2 which also relate to level 7 of the European Qualifications Framework. So according to this law, this is not impossible, so in this qualification framework depends on the autonomy of certain universities, do I have an example that the Faculty of Osijek had also written the same before this Constitutional Court decision a few years ago, with the difference of examinations being passed. Furthermore, the conditions of accession in all qualifications acquired in higher education have been complemented and fully aligned with the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. It is prescribed that the pre-conditions for access to a doctoral study complete a university degree study or an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university study in accordance with the conditions prescribed by the university or component by the General Act and with the conditions laid down in the university or its component study programme, so that is what we have already said that only those who have completed a university degree or similar can attend a doctoral study. The responsibility is also the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to allow citizens to exercise equal rights, above all the most proselytic example might be that they would lower it to a lower level, perhaps 4 so they would say no, high school students have different frameworks when they finish than students of some vocational schools. So that's where we can pull one parallel where we can't single out at the same levels we can kind of do, and that's exactly what this law says, but we can't say at the level that someone has a higher qualification because they've finished high school or someone else who's graduated doesn't know an economic or some vocational school that has a smaller qualification than that of the ESS as we all get used to saying it. Thus, the placement of qualifications acquired through the completion of specialist degree studies, university graduate studies and integrated undergraduate and graduate university studies at 7.1 is in line with binding EU law. By differentiating the level of qualifications for university and professional studies, Croatia would discriminate on the 45 thousand present students and all those already speaking 150 thousand who had already finished, thereby making a huge injustice. Given that, as I have already mentioned, the key comments on expert and public debate contain that the criteria of quality of professional and university studies are not the same, so it is obvious that what is taught at universities is much more difficult to say, let's say, to get certain points than at university universities at least so they go with that argument, and therefore they started working on a new law on ensuring the quality of science in higher education and this law, and on that basis, the criteria applied to the approval of study programmes are defined. But the people of my market are the ones who have to assess whether they want university or professionally, whether they're a specialist or the one who's finished. Everyone has their advantages and I'm not going to say my shortcomings, but we all know what a profession is, and what science is. And I think that market should be preferred, so not all colleges are the same, not the same diploma from the same universities everywhere. The students know that, somewhere easier, somewhere harder, somewhere more appreciated, somewhere less. I'm just going to say one example in the end, always unpopular with us saying that we're not good at colleges which is absolutely not true. Like in America, they're all good, so they're not. There's a college of minors you can finish where you won't see three books, but the market won't admit you to that college you won't be able to get a job anywhere because nobody's going to appreciate it. And that's the direction where we have to work that only the market recognizes when someone has finished a certain college that that competence he acquired at that university really has a greater value. Here's a thank you, of course the HNS club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70416	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70417	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague, one of the objectives of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, concerns exactly the quality you were talking about, so he not only connects education with the needs of society, the market, the economy, but also his goal and raises quality. So, just the elements of the standard of interest qualifications should ensure greater quality, and that is the biggest problem with us, the quality of individual professional studies, but we can't say that they have different levels, have the same level, different types and controversial quality. The aim of this instrument of the Croatian Qualifications Framework is to ensure greater quality and for the sake of the remaining question whether students who complete specialist studies should be absolutely deprived of the possibility of going to doctoral studies. I don't think that's good, it's not good, and we see from the example of Europe, so in Europe there's a German university, the sky is German universities and vice versa. The European University Association itself called on German universities to join the European University Association for the quality of their scientific production. So, these thoughts that there is no science in the universities are possible only in Croatia, while the European example shows us that this is not the case. For this reason, I would go to the Croatian Qualifications Framework, or the Law, not by saying who can enroll in doctoral studies, but by leaving the variant to be resolved by the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, which will change this year, so that when it changes the Croatian Qualifications Framework, it will have to follow up on all those changes that will go to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and I support that the university in the circle of its autonomy determines that these additional conditions will have to be met by the students of specialist studies so that the best students can also enroll doctoral studies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70418	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica, the esteemed representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70419	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, I can agree absolutely the same with you, and that is why he has also started working on the new Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, because it also defines criteria that apply to the approval of study programmes and recreditation. So with this, we are absolutely letting it know that the monopoly on high professional equipment can't have universities and that's what I think and that's the key point of their remark. Of course, just because it is written here that as a prerequisite for accessing doctoral studies must be a university degree study before that, however, there is no mention of what I asked afterwards, a graduate specialist. And there's left to accept the autonomy of every university. So let's say on some half way we are, I hope that in the future we will be able to accept this part, but that depends on the other law as well as the minister said so that it is certainly the most important, the quality of studies and what the labour market will recognize, there we can absolutely agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70420	The next replica is the respected representative Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70421	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, I support your presentation and you have also pointed out on behalf of the HNS Club this discrimination between students who have graduated from university studies and those who have completed a graduate professional study for the purposes of enrolment and in that sense I support and what Mr Jovanovic said in his replica. It is not only Slovenia that has equal criteria for enrolment in doctoral studies and those who are university students and those who are a professional study, it is a number of other European countries. You mentioned EU directives, they are very important because they provide the basis for students who feel discriminated may be going to Luxembourg court to seek protection of their rights and equality with those who have completed their university studies. And our Constitutional Court must bear in mind this thing that, above all, the constitutional category of equality of Croatian citizens must be secured. If students who have completed university studies and those who have completed professional studies have 300 ECTS points, then they are equally valuable, equally high-quality points for enrolment in doctoral studies. If, in the context of university autonomy, as counterpart Jovanovic said, an additional condition should be prescribed, let that condition be met, but let us not prevent them and prevent them from entering a doctoral study based on de facto discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70422	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70423	Thank you. Here's what to say? We have 4 Faculty of Law in Croatia that dispute this law, which adheres to decisions of the Constitutional Court which I may not think should have been. And we're now talking about equating professional specialist studies to have a high-level gear that's a box 7-1 with a university degree and that's the fight we're going to fight. Of course, the next step, perhaps it is a little illusory to expect that when we are challenged by the Constitutional Court and 4 Law Schools in the State, Osijek, Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, 4 universities, to go so far as to also prescribe a doctoral study which is in itself a scientific study, we can all agree. If someone has completed a professional study, you should find that model to be able to access science because it is a completely different way of working and the purpose of education. It must be clear to everyone at the beginning. Of course, when someone finishes certain competences and gets certain points to get him into a discriminating position with the other one, then there goes this story of the type of study, there goes the story of quality and when it's over, that law might then get the preconditions for what we're saying to be professional studies allowed access to doctoral studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70424	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70425	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Curaj, I agree with most of the testimony in your presentation on behalf of the HNS Club, and there is actually no more significant reason why I would be in any act against the proposed law. However, it seems to me that the solutions in this law have, in some ways, come as a settlement with the Constitutional Court, i.e. the Constitutional Court's ruling, in the part where we will ignore the Constitutional Court's decision on one hand, equalise the same level of graduate of university studies and graduates of specialist degrees. And on the other hand, in order not to be completely, which I think is fine, I think it's okay to approach non-discrimination, where it's actually equal value at the level, but again differentiation in kind of education. On the other hand, in order not to completely ignore the Constitutional Court's decision or to object or perhaps expose ourselves to the relaunch of the constitutional procedure, we have somehow caved in in this section and have disabled actually students of specialist and graduate, professional studies, access to doctoral studies. What I would like, therefore, is that I support this law, is supported by our SDP Club, but I would really like, until the second reading to review that decision again and to actually ask ourselves whether we are in favour of respecting European directives, which trigger any discrimination and allow equal access to students in Croatia, on the same terms as those who are EU citizens, where Croatia is today. Or we can deal with it in some way with the Constitutional Court. I'd love to if we've already decided on a non-discriminatory approach, then let's go to the end, because this provision won't protect us from re-launching the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70426	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70427	That's definitely something that needs to be resolved, in further steps, I think we'll all agree, but I repeat, first of all, the prerequisite for that is to see this law making, to ensure quality, science, high education, because then we would really have a basis, to make that decision. Of course we have to think about it, that it doesn't happen to us again, that for a year, that it's either a year or a year, that the Constitutional Court, once again, knocks us down and brings us back into inequality, I don't know, for what reason, it's really unclear for me and for the first time, but let's just say that maybe now there were some things that we've corrected. Of course only the opinion of all law schools, to make this discriminatory decision, that is, inequality, people who have finished, let's say, the same weight colleges only of different kinds. And that's actually where we go step by step, let's be sure, what we make good foundations, so we can upgrade. To me what's good here today and what the public needs to hear, that all the professional, those who have completed a professional specialist's degree study, can access this decision, of course and the discretionary decision of each university to postgraduate specialist studies, and that is already one step in which they certainly all exams that take, are recognised for a doctoral study, then remains dissertation. If that's the case, of course. So, we had an example, another economic college in Osijek that wrote it down, and if it's possible, if it's left to their... The decision, with the difference in exams, is then, let's say, some first step. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70428	Thank you, dear Vice President. I can agree with your exposure, but I was asked to report, what you said, about the end, when you said that not all colleges in America were of quality. That's the problem with us, too, that can even be said, inherited from that former state, where while we were part of Yugoslavia people used to go to some other republics, so to finish colleges where it's easier. Because the Zagreb Faculty was never very easy, any one, so we would even end up with some directions, which fall into technical colleges, so someone would put in a contest, that someone must have, for example, A high-end professional training, a technical college. And now it's a technical college, for example. and protection at work and construction college, and those two colleges simply can't be compared by anything. And that was done on purpose, because someone was allowed to do some work in a state-owned company, because state-owned companies, let's say, are monopolies in some way and it doesn't matter that they're profitable, and it should be important. Today, when we have, today we have one liberalisation of education, so a lot of new high schools are open, new high schools, and it's only important to make money. So people who pay 15, 16 thousand kuna, in one year, for two semesters, they finish those high schools, which may not be those levels of quality they're supposed to be. So, the same thing, because of political clientism, is being set up in a contest, that someone has some high school, any high school, and that's in a state-owned company, which is irrelevant, while the private sector must be demanding that top quality, which you're talking about. And it would be good if somehow we could find a way to prevent these manipulations from happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70429	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70430	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Alexic, yes. Unfortunately, as long as our country is the most interesting and state-owned companies, etc. And the institutions, the most interesting employer, we're going to have this problem, because it's looking for a high-tech cookout, some direction, no one's asking you where the college ended up, you can say it in another country. And that a diploma can be bought in America, very clearly, transparently, which would be legally possible. But there, you won't be very few people will want to hire you with that qualification from that university or the university that is. Unfortunately, as long as we have the country, the big one, who cannot do discrimination by one and cannot, the market is what needs to take over the role of estimating the quality of each. We need to build a framework and we need to do this Quality Act, so that it knows clearly which are wrapped and how it can be done. Of course, respecting the autonomy of every university. We had a situation where the students stopped studying at one university, went to another, passed the differences of exams there, and went back to this one, to get a degree in the university, it was a general phenomenon for me in Osijek and Zagreb, etc. Because some professors obviously don't have uniform criteria. Somewhere you need a certain level of knowledge to pass, somewhere, let's go, somewhere you don't even know. And where you don't know it, there's the biggest taster and that's what needs to be done slowly and that's what universities should do, when students recognize them, when the open market is, then students will go where they can get knowledge, and not where someone's harassing them, and of course the market is the main one, which they have to recognize. And that's where the big difference is and that's what we have to strive for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70431	Thank you very much. We will now move on to the next club of representatives, which is that of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives, on behalf of whom the Honored Representative, Rechim Varda, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70432	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I don't belong to the scientific community, so it's hard for me to talk about all the decisions of the law now, but I've returned to my profession because I've been asked on behalf of graduate students, professional schools to support this bill. So then, returning to my profession, I tried a little bit to analyze the bill's proposal in relation to the provisions of the EU directive. And I've come to the following conclusions. The EU Directive of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications aims to guarantee access to the same profession and equal rights for persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one Member State and for nationals of that Member State. That objective reflects efforts to ensure the mobility of workers without discrimination in relation to the citizenship of workers and respects the fact that Member States have different education systems and the nomenclature of professional qualifications. As a result, it was of particular importance to establish a general framework for the identification of qualifications, skills and different academic names acquired in different Member States' education systems as well as a procedure for recognising professional qualifications acquired outside the Member State in which the worker wants to be employed. The Directive sets out at the same level every three-year or four-year study whether these studies are carried out at a university or a higher university or another institution that provides for the same degree of education. This is important, same level of education. It is clear from this that certain ideas that have been extended through public debate on this law and that expert studies carried out by universities should be set to a lower level of qualifications than university studies, entirely contrary to European legislation. Although Member States are carrying out a procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications, the Union has nevertheless set a general framework for the comparability of professional qualifications through the adoption of the European Qualifications Framework. The European Qualifications Framework defines 8 levels of education or professional qualifications and the difference in levels is based on learning outcomes achieved after completed education at some level and which maintain what individuals do after completing a certain level of education, know, understand and be able to do. Again, the difference in levels within this framework is not based on the formal distinction between professional and university studies that Croatia knows. It is interesting to note that in the last public report of the European Qualifications Framework of December 2016, which gives an overview of the education system and professional qualifications across EU Member States, Croatia is not, and because it is said, late with the creation of a national qualification framework in line with the European Qualifications Framework. If an employer, for example. the EU wishes, on the basis of the data provided in the application of Croatian workers, to identify the identity of its qualification with that of its country, it is absolutely useless to try to identify this employer through specific search engines on the EU's website on the European Qualifications Framework, which is designed precisely to provide faster information to employers. Why is that? Because there is no information for Croatia on that page or on that search engine. With the proposal of this law, which will be supported by my club personally, I think we will be in a position to finally comply with the European Qualifications Framework and to facilitate the comparability and recognition of Croatian educational programmes and qualifications in the EU. Dear Ministers, the Labour and Solidarity Party club, Reformist and Independent MPs give full support to the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70433	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70434	Thank you very much. Buddy, you were also talking about quality. The Croatian Qualifications Framework has been tasked with correcting all the illogical and problems that have led to the application of Bologna in one non-selective, non-critical way in Croatia. We all know that Bologna came because it changed the percentage of children who went to college after high school, sometimes it was 20% of a generation, today it's 80% of a generation, so clearly that study should have been adjusted, so we got 3+2, so we got professional and university studies, but at no time should the quality of these studies have been bad. This is especially true for Croatia, which is not a socially mobile society, so if we watch statistics on how many of our children go to colleges from families who have completed primary school, then we will see that it is devastating. Socially mobile is society if generations that come after one generation achieve a higher degree of education. This is not the case with us, and therefore we should also encourage through improving the quality of our university so that all those who can't go to studies in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Osijek, get as high-quality education as possible and then don't degrade their opportunities that if they are really very high quality and why they are not good quality, the only reason they couldn't come to Zagreb is to ensure that they can go to PhDs as well. Otherwise this year, 3309 PhDs were enrolled at Croatian universities, which is 3% of the total number of students who completed colleges of about 110 thousand, which means that if we went through this analogy of 50,000 students of professional studies about 3%, and let's say that that's less than 2%, that's about a thousand people. Why would that thousand people who would be the best, the best quality, who had entered the university because they had no conditions to go to the university prevent them from completing their education and in doctoral studies?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70435	The answer... Here, before I move on to the next line, allow us to welcome the students of the Sisak High School who are at the gallery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we're going back to the replicas, next is the respected representative of Josko Klisovic. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70436	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Varda and you, in your presentation on behalf of the club, pointed out this inequality between graduates of university studies and graduates of professional studies for the purposes of enrolment in the doctorate, said fellow Jovanovic. You're already the third club to detect this problem and I'm actually wondering if you and the HNS and the SDP are going to ask the Ministry to coordinate or eliminate that inequality from our legislation and until the second reading we get a bill that we all support, but that won't contain such equality. Is your club like the third club in the Parliament looking for something like that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70437	The answer of the esteemed attorney, Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70438	Short, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70439	The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70440	Thank you, Mr. President. You said at first you weren't from this ambience of academics that you could talk about this, but you were listening to some of the problems of students and students going by professionally vertical. So I want to tell you everything here, I, for example, was a dean of the Faculty of Economics in 2002 to 2006 right at the time of this famous Bologna reform. I don't have enough time, but that's where everything was done. No one has ever audited this Bologna reform to see what's good and to improve and what's bad to get out, we do not have such practice in Croatia. Unfortunately, I don't have enough time and I'm startled by certain exposures here, I'm not going to replicate to others because you gentlemen are not something that's a binary system that's originally defined as a line of distinction between a professional and a university study, you're simply undoing it for you now is whatever it is, and you're putting it all down under constitutional decree that man that we all have to have the same rights. So please be serious. What exactly are you looking for on the other side? You are asking that children of our students who attend and study under university demanding programs so that those who study according to easier programs, less demanding, professional in the end that it is one and the same, that the point is equal to the point and that ultimately those from other professional verticals can enroll without a problem doctoral study. Are you aware of what you say? So if someone enrolled a professional study at first so he knows in advance that he specializes in going towards the profession, skills, I'm not going to say a lower level of education, but something that's applicable. Doctoral study is a doctoral study, it's for people who are turned to science, research and let's get serious in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70441	The answer of the esteemed attorney, Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70442	Dear colleague. As far as I understood the directive because I was actually talking about directives compared to this bill, the directive requires comparable professional qualifications to be based on essential criteria such as expertise and skills acquired in education, without discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70443	And the last replica is the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70444	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers and Associates, welcome. Comrade Ward, I only have one question for you because from your debate I have failed to understand your position and the position of your club on whether students or diplomats of professional studies should be able to enroll doctoral studies at the end or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70445	There's no answer. We are going to the next club of representatives, which is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70446	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have heard today on several occasions that the Croatian Qualifications Framework is a key reform instrument that regulates the entire qualification system at all educational levels in the Republic through the standard of qualifications based on learning outcomes and is in line with the needs of the Croatian society and society as a whole. I already said in the replica that this development started in 2006 and that this is a good example in which politicians did not interfere too much, so this work was very good and almost without delay until 2013 when it was adopted in the Croatian Parliament as one of the key reform documents important for Croatia's future. Therefore, every qualification acquired in Croatia has its place in the Croatian Qualifications Framework. What is new, which causes certain unknowns that are at the heart of the Croatian Qualifications Framework the outcomes of learning, so the competences that a person has acquired by learning and proved after learning process in which, which is new, the learning process itself is not crucial since the learning outcome is verified. Each qualification acquired in the Republic of Croatia is defined according to the levels that have learning outcomes, which belong to that qualification. Completing qualifications to a certain level allows them to compare and connect and be part of the European Qualifications Framework and the qualification framework of the European Higher Education Area. What is also completely new, which has not been resolved until the end, and these legal changes also create assumptions that it is being resolved, since the outcomes of learning are at the heart of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, and not the process of these outcomes, this framework provides a basis for developing the evaluation of so-called. previous learning, i.e. provides the basis for the recognition and evaluation of the outcome of informal and informational learning, with the mandatory introduction of a quality assurance system, which is particularly important and clear quality verification procedures. Today's changes also solve this in an additional way. HKO introduces qualifications standards, while the same qualification can be obtained at different educational institutions through different educational programmes. There are certain standards in terms of prescribed learning outcomes that all those qualifications must have. In addition to qualifications standards, a standard of profession is introduced. This is a very important document which clearly shows the competences needed for a particular profession. The qualification standard shall be developed on the basis of a clearly prescribed methodology and data collected. For this we have received significant European funds somewhere around 10 million kuna. And right now, this process, which is crucial for the development of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, is taking place through the work of the sectoral councils where the registers of the Croatian Qualifications Framework are established and in fact their quality and consistent establishment will be the cornerstone of the quality implementation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework. It should be said that the Croatian qualification framework creates an assumption that the terms of interest, knowledge, skills, competences are needed by the Croatian society for faster development. Only an integrated education, employment and regional development policy can develop a Croatian competitive economy. And while this debate is going on, I was called by some people, and even when we talked like this in an unrelated conversation, it still doesn't understand what a Croatian qualification framework is. I even said in a joke today that it might have helped to work on the Croatian qualification framework until this absurd constitutional lawsuit led by the Faculty of Economics, which is here today rebelled from such day-to-day political reasons. How would you explain to an ordinary man what a Croatian qualification framework is? So the simplest thing to say is to imagine one closet and that there are 11 drawers in that closet and that every qualification, every learning outcome can be placed in one of those drawers. Now every student, every parent can open one of these drawers and see what outcomes are needed to get him to get some qualifications. But the employer can also open the drawer and look at what that finished student brings him when he comes to work and what needs to be changed to allow you to be able to work at the workplace immediately after you finish your schooling. So that's exactly the Croatian qualification framework. What the Croatian qualification framework also represents is that it ceases to think that education is one process that ends. So it is precisely the Croatian qualification framework that promotes a lifelong process of education where we in Croatia are still not at the level at which we say the EU is. So the Croatian qualification framework is a tool that will focus our education on the challenges that await us in the next 10 years and thus ensure that we no longer have education from the Employment Service, but for work, for a quality job. I was already talking about this really unnecessary constitutional lawsuit of the Faculty of Economics, which then went through the Rector's Rector's Rector's Rector and Rectors, who asked for the assessment of the constitutionality only for their narrow particular interests because they obviously do not know how to solve the problem of professional and university studies that are completely equal, and then they decided to give them different levels and thus create the difference between professional and university studies at the Faculty of Economics. So, they themselves did not ensure that there was a difference between professional and university studies but then artificially determining different levels wanted to create discrimination against students ending up being more of a university. Fortunately after a heated and content debate with over 1850 comments today we received a proposal that did not accept this discriminatory segregation alternative. And therefore, as a SDP club, we support the proposed changes, by asking the ministry to see once again whether it is possible in the legislative proposal in the second reading to let go of the possibility in which the priority will not be disabled by the best, most capable students who complete specialist studies to satisfy the autonomy of the university, where each university will only prescribe which differences must be the best, best-quality students of specialist studies to join the doctoral study. A team before it is possible for them to set an example for neighbouring Slovenia. So why go to Slovenia, spend even more money there when they can do it in Croatia. Therefore, whether those who filed a constitutional suit, whether or not Col. Lovrinovic is considering the problems that our students may have with ERASMUS exchange over these specificities that have been sought through the opinion and seeking a decision of the Constitutional Court. Have you thought about how we will create joint studies with universities from countries where this difference does not exist? Therefore, these are issues that we must offer through a legal solution, so that in no way are our students in a subordinate position compared to their EU counterparts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70447	Thank you very much. Even before you started the exhibition, there was a replica, and then a larger number picked them up. Let's take it in a row. The first is Honorable Representative Tomislav Sokol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. Here is my colleague Jovanovic. I have a few questions for you, especially since you were the minister when the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework was passed. First, as far as learning outcomes are concerned, they are already largely elaborated in higher education. I know I've been involved in this, but here you have two problems, one dilemma. On the one hand, you can learn outcomes, or one subject, one content, one college describes through a number of generic learning outcomes that do not show much and can get through a lot. The alternative is that as some programs in secondary and primary schools you have for one subject several hundred learning outcomes. Now what you think is the best way to approach it is if there is some way between and what we're going to do about it with HAZU's remarks about how one core content should be sent, as far as I've at least realized that they want to say, which should be fixed and that they're then up to the outcomes of learning. Do you feel that this previous approach should be based on content and knowledge and on learning outcomes, should they be combined in some way? A second question about quality. So you were, like I said, the minister when the HKO Act was passed, and I'm very sorry that we didn't go towards raising the criteria, especially in that area of these professional studies. So now you have a case to become a university you have to have a certain number of people employed in scientific and teaching titles. At the high schools of that science section, there's no such thing as a condition. In fact, you could be in high school if you'd never written a scientific paper. So what do you think and do you see any vision and if you do, why you did not spend it in your mandate, how to raise those criteria to remove these remarks regarding the fact that professional studies are worse than university studies, etc.? And the third question, due to time, I won't be able to make it to the sector council. Do you think it's a good thing that we have a sectoral council of several hundred people on the labour market that will strictly put into the qualifications boxes, is that flexible given the constantly changing labour market? Is that the best way to fix ourselves like that or should it be a little more flexible the whole system?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70449	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70450	Thank you very much. Well, I don't know if I'll be able to answer all the questions, otherwise I would've done it all if I'd stayed in two terms, so in one term, that's impossible. As for our decision and the adoption of the HKO Act, I have already said that it was a process that started in 2006, when the final decision was made to go with the law and then not always be that when the minister came to say that nothing was right before him, we continued with this process and I can especially point out to you Professor. Djellija, who was one of the key people for HKO in Croatia and who today is one of the prominent lecturers across Europe who conveys Croatian experiences. Thus, the fact itself that Prof. Djellija holds the education of others by introducing a qualification framework, showing that we were on the right track. As far as quality is concerned, it is of course necessary to ensure quality where the Science Agency is key in higher education through initial accreditation procedures and all other ways to ensure quality and I believe that the Quality Act that is being prepared will be this additional step in making our universities more quality than they are now. Therefore, not only universities, there are a lot of individual components at universities that should improve their quality but I am convinced that consistent application of the law will make it possible. Here, the Faculty of Economics is a good example, so they were enrolling so many students that simply more teachers could not respect it, could not be monitored, and therefore they went into this initiative to secure additional revenues through professional studies. So they didn't care about the quality of teaching, they didn't care about students, they just cared about their salaries and college incomes. As for the outcome of learning, I think it's a good way to go, and the outcomes of learning as they are now designed, to guarantee that we will have education for work and not for the Employment Service and on this plan, sectoral councils are doing a quality job and I believe they will succeed in doing it eventually.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70451	Thank you. A colleague of Lovrinović has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, which article has been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70452	Mr. Vice President, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Jovanovic, is here very sharply. In 238, he was talking about something that was not the subject of a question or replica, an attack by the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, an attack by the University of Zagreb, using this assembly to deal with individual institutions, and I think it is inadmissible and rude. [[/Intruder Reiner: What article is injured?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70453	Okay. That's what you know. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It may be an injury to something else, but it's not the Rules of Procedure, absolutely certain. Let's move on, so here, now you have a chance to say in the form of a replica as you think, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70454	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jovanovic, I'm shocked with your presentations and I really can't believe what's going on in the SDP. And no wonder you're where you are. I apologize to the other individual colleagues, but I'm talking about you now because you are obviously in charge of this education. You're saying it's a shame that you weren't a second term minister so to settle things, I say it's a shame that you were the first. I remember as a university professor, I don't remember anything very much from your mandate. But it's your strength to crash into institutions because it's just astounding. But back to academic level, discussions and arguments, no one here is questioning the binary system of education, and we know exactly what it means for you and me. At first, a young man decides whether to enroll in a university, means a professional vertical or a university. We know what the outcomes of learning are. We know that if it moves from one institution to another that there is a recognition, then we, in order to recognize it, make certain differences precisely because of the recognition that we would not discriminate against one group or another. But it's not just for you here, it's not for someone else's cause. You want to make a mess in the system that exactly that binary system that's defined, that has points and that has conditions of recognition, to make a mess that can work on what you're saying as far as I understand, what who wants. So you're actually pushing for a business in education and not for education in business, and that's what can ruin Croatia as it has broken it in the financial system, in this, that, etc. So, very clearly, I'm not against this system, but we need to prevent the mess you're up against.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70455	Thank you. The answer of the honourable representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70456	I'm a very lucky colleague, Lovrinović, because you've come to me for a line, so let me remind you, for example. in the business of education at your university when the studies that have never been read and which have never experienced the light of day in application and practice in the Croatian economy were stationed. Let us remember the Index affair, the education fins and the earning of students on fake exams at your university, so please don't talk and don't insult others based on everything that's been done at your university and never the sanctions have come to an end. So if someone wants to introduce order... HKO, and your knowledge of the binary system is obviously very missing. I will take the example of Germany again, we want to look up to Germany, to the German economy. German university binary education, the European University Association invites them to be a member because their scientific production is bigger than in some universities. That's the meaning of the binary system. Therefore, your debate has only shown once more complete ignorance of HKO at the university where you work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70457	Representative Lovrinovic again raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm not going to abuse this point 238 here is an insult to me, as you can see. I can really see from my colleague Jovanovic that behind a form of yours is exactly the kind of hitting from all sides to the abdomen, the weakness. If you have any proof that the Faculty of Economics and anyone else is doing anything, go ahead and back up otherwise withdraw the words you said and the heavy accusations. Therefore, I do not allow you here to use the assembly to deal with me as a parliamentary representative and other institutions for your own reasons. I'm not going to open this topic any further that you're talking about, but I'm sorry that as a minister you didn't spend time reducing your education business, and now you have the nerve to speak and attack others and give lessons here. Where did you get that, not just the right one. Therefore, this really is a totally unbearable way of your discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70459	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Jovanovic, I ask you to refrain too, I ask that we do not abuse the institution of the Rules of Procedure for the sake of mutually speaking of bickering and disagreement. People have different attitudes, people have different opinions about certain things and for so long until it crosses the level of one communication, I ask you to refrain from it. All right, pal Jovanovic, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70460	Article 238 of the esteemed Vice President has been injured. You gave your colleague Lovrinovic a chance to hurt that Rules of Procedure twice and that he insults me. He started calling me here first and asking me for some evidence. Well, in court, at the BOOK, in a deal they signed, so they pleaded guilty to the Index affair, so I'm thinking what we're talking about is what's forgotten. ...corruption in education at the Faculty of Economics in the Index affair.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70461	He hasn't offended you enough. No, I won't anymore. I will knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure, and I will no longer give anyone any harm to the Rules of Procedure. ... I sit here and run the session the way I run it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please stop fighting with the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. There are ways, there's a replica, there's an individual debate where you can say whatever you want. Please don't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure because it didn't happen on either side. There have been various claims that someone can agree with, they can't agree, they can feel hit or not hit, but it happens every day unfortunately here. Therefore, please let us no longer abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please let's get this over with. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70462	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, I am very pleased that you have tried to paint the task of the qualification framework. I'm going to try to illustrate it with an example that allegedly and really happened with one thought experiment. Namely, the example says that the doctor was left alone in a nurseless office, had to give an injection, he gave the injection a complication, the patient sued the hospital, the hospital sued the doctor, the doctor sued the university because he didn't need knowledge and competence to give the injection. So what's the point of actually seeing the frames to write exactly what are the competences, knowledge and skills that a person must have. And in that sense, I also agree with you that when the Constitutional Court came to him this complaint, that the Constitutional Court should not have even interfered in my opinion because if we are looking at the constitutional principle then the county from which I come from, beware of Virovitica you have 150km on one side and on the other side until the first university, therefore it was Osijek or Zagreb. From my place the nearest highway is 80km, we say we're all equal, but we don't have equal opportunities and equal chances. People don't have the same opportunities to send people to college. And in that sense this provision to equalise the degree is the office, and what you're saying is to enable doctoral study to those who are excellent would be able to say by means of a thought experiment what if one man finishes two colleges, one professional, one university, one in the field of technical sciences, one in the field of social sciences, and then he decides to doctorate in the field of social sciences with which he completed only professionally or vice versa. I see there's actually an independence to that system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70463	The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70464	Thank you, Comrade Sagar. Well, that is exactly what HKO's goal is, and in general and the European Qualifications Framework, it is horizontal and vertical passing, and we in Croatia as a small country, a country that has not yet ensured that society be equal opportunities for all, we really cannot build obstacles to those who are the best. Here you were the president of the High School Board in Virovitica, there was Dr. Bedekovic, who was a dean, so an example of why these students who are the best, and there won't be many of them, they wouldn't stay after completing their specialist study in Croatia further at the doctoral study, but of course we don't say that they are equal and thus have an advantage over colleagues who have "studentized harder" university studies. The university will study with autonomy, and they will all study at a doctoral study at the university not in another high school, it should be determined which advances, pre-conditional students who have completed a specialist study, and the best ones, they have shown themselves, written papers, have to be completed to ensure that they are still enrolled in doctoral studies and that they are thus rounding up education in Croatia. Otherwise, another nebulosis I heard here today, so the university should be prepared only for scientific work. Well, here's the proof of our economic college. In America, 75% of science doctors work in the economy. In Europe 50%, we have 15%. So the doctorate is not a preparation for working in the scientific community, but should ensure that these people, with their doctoral knowledge, work in the economy and thus ensure that Croatia is a competitive society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70465	Comrade Lovrinović, what is he hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70466	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70467	Comrade Lovrinović, if you react this way next time, I will give you a warning. There people attack various institutions, you attack a number of institutions, parties and all together, and that's the freedom of parliamentaryism. If you or I agree with a colleague, Jovanovic, that's another thing. Well, I'm at that same university you're at. And what I think about it, it's a different story, but he has a right to say whatever we think about it. So, please, you can't react to that, because by that logic, anyone would react to anything he didn't like. And that's where people say things that people don't like, right? Let's move on, the next replica is Honored Representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the hope of further discussion, as he likes to say, our diameter will be dedramatic, he would like to refer to a part of the presentation of his colleague Jovanovic, and in fact, on the trail of one of the earlier replicas, a colleague of Lovrinovic, a colleague of Vardi. It kind of seems to me, in fact, that maybe one of the key things to understanding this law is, in fact, the fact that there is a kind of change in the paradigm, not at all, in terms of what learning looks like, and like you said, it's a process that's actually disappearing. I think that maybe the public, and also partly here, our colleagues, some and colleagues, that maybe they need to be helped to understand, that we are actually adapting this really Croatian education system to the times that are coming and that have already come elsewhere in the world. That the way education used to work, it's simply no longer appropriate for the world we live in. I mean, I'm going to go back a little bit and remember that I graduated before the bologna was introduced. And with that time, it seemed to me that this sicko, something of the worst that could possibly exist and that I was terribly happy, that I was studying in a system that I was preceding, but very quickly I realized that let's say from the simplest things, that I couldn't spend the semester out there, that I could admit it, as part of education, formally here. I think it would really be worth hearing a little bit more about how we're actually looking at this kind of change in the pardigma in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70469	The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70470	Thank you very much, colleague, so what the Croatian qualification framework points out above all is the importance of lifelong learning. So we in Croatia are quite well and on a high scale, when we watch how many of our primary school students finish primary school, enroll in high school, and here we are for example, everyone has in Europe and they ask us how we do it. After high school, about 60-80% enrolls in colleges, and those who finish colleges have 3% doctorate. And that's this kind of line of lifelong learning, which disappears with it, when this doctoral study is finished, but just the Croatian qualification framework, ensures everyone, that in other different ways, they can perfect themselves all their lives, and that's actually crucial, because knowledge is getting old. Therefore, new knowledge, skills, and competences should be constantly adopted for all the challenges of development and new technologies in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70471	The next replica is the respected representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70472	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear colleague Jovanovic, you have made a very nice and picturesque SDP position. Likewise, if you are talking about your ministerial internship, then you will first of all be remembered for having the courage, will and strength to face the swamp, both in sports and academic circles. It would be nice for all ministers to have that power and to do the job, because none of us are satisfied with the way these segments of Croatian society function. When you were also accused of promoting business and education, alluded to private schools, universities, universities, so, as if they were a second-rate form of education to students, which is a kind of insult, you'll agree. If we were to do a poll here, among all of us parents, do we want to enroll our children in Harvard, Stanford, Princeton, Jale, I believe we'd all round that we wanted to. So much for business, for education. But what else would I like to ask you, do you think that education policy must also fit into wider national interests? If the interest of this country is to do everything to ensure that young people do not, especially highly educated, emigrate from our country, is not it not a minimum of what we have to do, to ensure that they have the same conditions of enrolment in doctoral studies, following a graduate study, as do other EU countries, Germany, Austria, Slovenia and others. Because if we don't, we're going to encourage them to move out of our country, at first because of the need for education, the doctoral study, and tomorrow it's going to be, we're going to stay there, we're going to look for a job, we're going to have a degree, I don't know German or French college. So, in your opinion, and in my opinion, education policy must somehow fit into wider national goals, and do you think that private universities and schools are second-rate forms of providing education to our students or should we give them a chance to prove that they are... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70473	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70474	Thank you, colleague Klisovic, to say that in our term, this Parliament has brought in 2 key reform documents that determine the future of Croatian education, and thus the entire Croatian society is the Law on HKO and that is the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology, so these are key documents without which there would be no curricular reform and this is something that this assembly, regardless of political membership, can be proud of. Of course, we cannot share educational institutions in Croatia and thus value them in private and public but in good and bad. Therefore, it does not matter whether any educational institution in Croatia is a private or state-owned institution but whether the conditions of education in Croatia are of quality and whether students and students who finish education in either private or state-owned institutions acquire competences that guarantee that they will be able to meet all the work obligations that the employer expects from them upon arrival at work. And of course that in Croatia we need to ensure everything possible for our students, graduates to stay in Croatia and get the most education but not only that, we need to ensure that we also attract foreigners to come to Croatia, end education and stay with us working in our economy, in our academic community.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70475	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70476	Thank you very much. My colleague Jovanovic, I will refer to that part of your debate in which you spoke about HKO among other things and as a quality assurance instrument when it comes to the higher education system. And right at the beginning I will say that I absolutely support raising the level of quality, clear and highly raised quality criteria both at the level of professional, both at the level of university studies, doctoral studies if it comes to higher education, institutions, therefore also at the level of higher schools and universities and private institutions, quality above and above all. And in that sense, I'm just going to try to illustrate it with a few figures to read. Namely, the institution in Croatia responsible for taking care of quality of the Higher Education Quality Insurance Act and the Science and Higher Education Agency, which showed the cycle of last re-accreditation, of 130 re-accreditation recommendations issued, 51 higher school received a letter of expectations within a certain deadline. Three short passes and 20 study programs mostly dislocated, mostly university, complete adversaries. So much for quality at the level of undergraduate and graduate studies. Reaccreditation of doctoral studies, 2013 after thematic evaluation, the Agency's report tells us the following, some of the things to be taken into account, insufficient number of teachers in doctoral studies of their own, insufficient number of mentors, insufficient number of teachers from abroad, inadequate means of attracting and selecting the best and talented students, almost no reception exam as selections at the entrance, no follow-up or poor development of doctoral monitoring, poor completion, high self-printing rate. Here, it's just fact and in figures a reasoned state in the system and so much about the exclusive of our... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70477	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70478	Thank you. So, colleagues Bedeković, you come from a high school which is a good example of how you can do quality work and by all segments that are valued in some accreditation and accreditation procedures and that is the most important, therefore, that this law also ensures through the laws that we will pass, that quality is as high as possible, this is the first thing that must be provided and second, it must be ensured that all these competences that are acquired at our all levels of education ensure employment. We have also heard from the minister today that through these changes, she is trying to have a greater impact on regulated professions where today we have an example especially in health care, that generations of students are finishing their studies, specifically medical-laborant diagnosticists, very fast dental hygienists, clinical nutritionists who are currently not recognized by the Ministry of Health. So this must no longer happen in the future, so the Ministry of Health in this case, together with the Ministry of Science and Education, must negotiate all competences and all study groups that will be educated in biomedical studies in the future. But also, the Ministry of Health must now have an obligation to generations who have completed their studies in order to ensure that they can do the internship and get a job, not that all the money they and the state have thrown at their schooling is actually in vain.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70479	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the next club of MPs, and that's the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Sokol will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70480	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, fellow MPs. So today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the HKO Act. As has already been said, this law has received a lot of media attention, a lot of attention and in a public debate, we had 550 pages if I'm not mistaken, complaints in the public debate about the law itself, and when we look at very polarised ones. So actually these objections are placed in one category or another, absolutely for equating professional and university studies or against. Now what I'm going to try to stick to, reduce labels and less accusations, which are facts. In that sense, I think it is necessary first to say a few words about HKO, which he actually means especially in the European context. The European Qualifications Framework was set out by the European Parliament and the Council's recommendation of 23 April 2008. a common reference framework of 8 levels of qualifications has been established in the form of learning with relevant levels reflecting complexity. The purpose of the European Qualifications Framework for Lifelong Learning is to improve transparency, comparability and transferability of qualifications of persons. So one of the fundamental purposes of the European Qualifications Framework is to facilitate mobility. Among other things, that our highly educated and not only highly educated but primarily they can go to work in other EU Member States, live and work. This recommendation is replaced by the Council's recommendation of 22 May 2017 on the European Qualifications Framework for Lifelong Learning. It's important to point out here, now I'm going to talk a little bit as a lawyer, that the recommendations by definition are something non-binding, non-binding instrument. This is also explicitly stated in the 29th paragraph of that Recommendation of 2017. It states: “In view of its non-binding nature, this recommendation respects the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, support and complementarity,” this is important, “the activity of Member States by facilitating further cooperation between them in order to increase transparency, comparability and portability of qualifications of persons. It should be implemented in accordance with national law and practice. What is important, therefore, is that the whole system is based on supporting the activities of EU member states. Article 45 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, which states, inter alia, that the Union fully respects the responsibility of Member States for teaching content and the establishment of education systems, that any harmonisation of the laws and regulations of the Member States is excluded. So, the EU is there to support Member States, but Member States themselves decide what their priorities are in their education system, how they will organise it, how and how this will have consequences, especially when we talk about the content of education itself. I particularly stress this in the light of all debates on the curricula of Croatia, history, etc. But what is important is that, therefore, it was the political government's political decision by the government of Mr Milanovic, or Minister Jovanovic, to pass the law and that law in this form. It means that it is thus confirmed by the European Centre for the Development of Professional Training Cedefop. So their 2018 report states that out of the 28 EU Member States, 11 have passed a new law, and one country has made changes. So, Member States have really different ways in which this qualification framework is implemented in their legal system and in their education system. So some of them are based on regulations, sublaws, some on stakeholders' agreements, etc. So different ways are different, different methods depending on what the state considers important in this regard. Now, as far as the famous decision of the Constitutional Court is concerned. Therefore, on 20 April 2016, the Constitutional Court, to clarify this, abolished part of Article 8(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on HKO in the section which puts specialist graduate studies at level 7. together with university graduate studies. In the light of the decision, it is stated among other things, I think it is important to state exactly what is important, as stated by the Constitutional Court, that there is not too much room for different interpretations. The legislative approach may be constitutionally-legislative if there is an objective reasonable justification for it. The Constitutional Court, however, does not see that such justification exists, because in a specific case it is about different types of education that cannot be approached equally by nature. The Constitutional Court first stresses that it is wrong and socially harmful to discuss expert studies as those who do not have the same value, i.e. the importance as a university. I think it's also important that we avoid this level of debate especially in public discourse. This unfoundedly encourages an unacceptable public opinion that general professional qualifications are not equally valuable. So you need to do it again. It is generally wrong to view the existing binary system of higher education through comparison of their values for the social community, because both systems are equally valuable, equally necessary. Furthermore, university professional studies are two different higher education systems that educate and train students for different purposes. The Constitutional Court is obliged to protect the existing constitutional framework and guarantees which are recognised by the Constitution only by the university, and thus the differences that must exist between the university system and the professional through which higher education is also carried out, but on other grounds, with other objectives, and then it is necessary with different effects of qualification. What the Constitutional Court specifically said, and I would point that out, because I think the law here even goes beyond what the Constitutional Court has asked, is that it is not possible to enroll a doctoral study for someone who has completed a professional, graduate study without laying down a different programme and that this different programme should be subject to legal conditions. As long as we're here in the HKO Act we have, we don't even predict a different programme, but a commitment to enrolling a university degree study. So the law here seems to have gone even further than the court actually has, the Constitutional Court has sought in that segment, which we say is so interesting. In most cases, the judgment can be interpreted in two ways. The first interpretation is that professional university studies cannot be at the same level. Another interpretation is that they can be at an equivalent level as they had in the bill, means 7a, b with different descriptions, i.e. learning outcomes. In this regard, I would give some of the things and principles that we should be guided by, but this time taking a binding EU legal framework that is not directly related to the qualification framework, but is strongly referred to and influenced by it. Therefore, what is important are the binding provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU in particular Articles 20 to 21 of the Union and Articles 45 to 62 on freedom of movement of persons, services and business creation, and of Directive 2006/123 on services in the internal market and 2005/36 on the recognition of professional qualifications. What is a fundamental taste and what stems from these regulations is that making a difference between whether they are performed at a university or a university, or a higher school, is certainly a restriction on the freedom to provide services on the common market. It makes it difficult for legal persons from other Member States to provide higher education services in Croatia, since they must establish a university to be able to issue diplomas of an appropriate level. The counterargument is that the restriction can be justified in the public interest. However, this public interest should be demonstrated, it should be established that the restriction is proportionate to the objective to be achieved. It means that such a restriction is necessary and that the objective of public interest cannot be achieved in any other way. What is important and what is stated here in the debate is to make the difference between university and professional studies must prove a material, i.e. a material difference. So purely formally, this university expert study and, in practice, the Court of Justice of the European Union and other bodies of the European Union, the European Commission is not enough to make a distinction. On that side, however, I would point out there are certain shortcomings in the very reasoning of the law, which I believe will be corrected until the second reading, concerning issues of reverse discrimination. It is therefore stated that the European legal framework prohibits discrimination against persons who have completed professional studies in Croatia, to go to a doctorate in Croatia unlike those who have completed a professional study in Belgium, for example, Hogeschool and then want to come to Croatia for a doctorate. So what is important is that it is discrimination, but such discrimination is not prohibited by European law, because European law does not prohibit reverse discrimination. So in the EU, you can discriminate on your own, but you can't discriminate on other people's. What we can talk about then discrimination in terms of Croatian constitutional law. So can you, from the perspective of the Croatian Constitution, treat the persons who completed their study in Croatia differently compared to those who ended up abroad? But that's not an argument passing from European law, just to be clear. Furthermore, we are also aware of the counterarguments, meaning the key argument that I would point out, which is being passed through the Constitutional Court ruling and through the obviouss of some universities lately, it is a fact that different conditions apply to accreditation of university and professional studies in the Republic of Croatia. So that's what the taste of argument is and what one side is actually saying, it's a fact. So the important difference between professional studies, higher schools on the one hand and universities on the other is that the conditions for the establishment of a university are much larger, much sharper, much stricter. Not only that, but in order for you to have a university, you have to have certain persons in the scientific calling until at the university or high school you don't have to have a person with a teaching profession, so you just have to have a teaching call, and no scientific work is required for teaching, so you can only have professional papers to be in the teaching class. And that's that key argument that one side points out there. What I would point out is that we absolutely need to raise the criteria to prevent the existing inflation of a degree that unfortunately started with a bologna, here I will publicly say that the Croatian implementation of the Bologna has led to inflation of diplomas and in many segments to lower quality levels and that this is something that we should certainly work on further. So what is important, however, is that these problems are not solved by this law or by its dispute. So if we consider the level of professional studies insufficiently high, then it should be resolved through other regulations, the Quality Insurance Act and ultimately through the basic law itself. And this way, I also call on the Minister to establish a working group as soon as possible to draft a new roof law on scientific activity, as I know that there are normative activities for this year, and it is a serious job where it will certainly take time to bring about adequate solutions to pass public debate, etc. What we need through this comprehensive change of legal framework in our higher education is that, and that is what we lack public debate and dialogue. So we also see in this assembly that very often we have great bipolarization both on the ideological line and, unfortunately, on some interesting lines, interest groups etc. What's important is that I appeal that this assembly is not also used for some personal accounts. Let's just say that today, in the process, by the end of the month, the selection process of Zagreb University's Rectors is also not good, and it's also not good for some people to be called in person, some members of the university, and it can be concluded that they are trying to influence the choice of rectors because the ideologically maybe the current rector is not responding to a group, and someone else is responding. I think unfortunately such cases we've already had at some universities have some politicians from some parties trying to use student protests for self-promotion and I don't think that's really good, and I think that's something we should avoid. Finally, as far as the HKO system itself is concerned, it would have little reference to the sector council itself. The sectoral councils under the law should be 25 in the term of the government of Mr Milanovic formed 7 of them if I am not mistaken, in the term of office of this government, I think 24 of them have been formed so far, but they have brought only one standard of qualifications so far. And then the question is, what's the reason for that, and why doesn't it approach it in a faster and more up-to-date way, and I hope that's going to go that way in the future. What I would point out, however, and what is one of the complaints I have heard from various people, it is not clear to people why we must have sector councils with not 300 and some people plus some of their expert groups etc. Some people told me it reminds them of Shuwara. So we're going to have some drawers again, like you mentioned, some commission that's going to determine what a mechanic should do, what a metal carbine should do. So there are also such objections in our people, it's not clear enough to people, and that's why I think this story about the qualification framework is reduced to this practical level, that we are less ideological and less concerned with particular interests, and we are more concerned with matter itself. Therefore, taking into account all arguments both sides conditionally, the HDZ Club considers this law to be useful and will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70481	Thank you very much. We have a long line of replicas again, starting from the beginning is the first respected representative of Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Falcon, I have listened carefully to your discussion and you say specifically on the legal side that you have observed our qualification framework according to that European and I am glad that you have resonated well, positively, rationally with regard to distinction, recognition. Like what? You have, my daughter has finished Meinzu Johannes Gutenberg, it doesn't matter he's not in the bologna. People don't know they think that everyone in the EU is going on in the bologna... it doesn't matter my people, you have this and this. Some universities have accepted some haven't, Americans aren't, etc., but let's let it go now. I want to say something else. We forget when we talk about high school education the word master, skills, master, are full of our mouths about harmonising education with practice, with the needs of the economy. Where did this vocational education get lost? This German segment of education where they paid great attention to that fachochschule. When we say bravo master, you did it masterly, we're all ready, we're satisfied, and it sounds good. We don't have a master today. The masters are gone. Why? Because the previous ruling structures they devalued the system of values, that criminal robbery and privatisation she brought a new picture of wealth overnight, no effort, no trouble. So whoever could not do something quickly became incompetent, and during that time, who were born and had skills and abilities, they did not write it down out of shame. I invite you all here in the Parliament, regardless of the party's belongings, ideologically to encourage us, to re-prove this notion of knowledge-quisition of masters, and to encourage those children because we need them for the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70483	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, you would refer to two things you said, and first of all, if we were very often more Catholic than the Pope. That's true. We very often call on the EU, when we want to bring something for some of our reasons. That's why I think it's important for us to be as precise as possible. As far as vocational education is concerned, I agree, so 70% of our students go to high school and that's actually a key part of our education, which has been neglected quite often. That's why I'm glad we already had the Law on Professional Education in our first reading. It's a shame you weren't here to contribute a little bit to the debate and now let's wait for another reading. What I think is particularly important about this law, to ensure the part that we lacked, which is cooperation between the education system and the labour market, i.e. the company. I know that HGK had an initiative, that companies get as much involved in the very process of vocational education, through mentoring, etc. and I hope and believe that the ministry will also resonate and coordinate the legal framework on this trail, so that we can create a modern system of vocational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70485	The next replica is the respected representatives of Sanja Putice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70486	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Sokol, you have instructed here that hundreds and thousands of objections to this bill have arrived in the public debate. However, what needs to be pointed out and I would like to hear your opinion. Sometimes it seems to me that we view certain legal regulations as islands. There's a whole series of legal regulations and a bill of law coming from the ministry. However, they must all be in co-ordination and with laws concerning competent agencies and institutions belonging to this ministry. The target group of course of this law are young people, we don't need to stress it much, we are all aware of it and I wonder if this bill will finally adopt standards of interest, which will primarily meet the Croatian market, and only then to the European market. We also said that we had already made a proposal for a law on vocational education in the first reading, but we have made it, if you remember the decision on new members of the Council for Human Resources, which should be managed by the work of sectoral councils, so I am sorry that this council has so far not said anything about the proposal of the Law on Professionals and neither the proposal on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70487	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70488	Thank you very much. Well, actually, one thing you've pointed out well, and that's the question of the market, for which we educate people, we're doing this whole big system. Let's just say the fact is, and I've been reading some studies that show that most of the professions they're going to be doing, people who are now enrolling in elementary school, and actually who they're going to be doing when they finish education, they don't actually exist yet. And then the question is, how much do these drawers, as a colleague Jovanovic called them, need to be strict. How much we need to administratively describe some things now, when these things change, when it's very fluid in fact. And here I think we need to be flexible, we don't need to fall into a trap to overlegate, to complicate the whole thing, to create a bunch of commissions, etc., etc. and there's no result. Because what's the problem with our education, if I may say from that famous bologna in the Croatian way it was introduced, is that red tape has accumulated, enormous. So we have a regulation on quality assurance, quality assurance commissions, etc. I'm afraid I'm not going to say anything smaller, but I don't see it getting very high in the last 10, 15 years. And what's so, so that's what this is about, and as far as it's concerned, markets, of course, without a strong Croatian economy, our education system doesn't make sense. Because if there is, the only thing we're going to achieve is that this framework will make it easier for our people to go outside. I don't think that's the way, but it's part of a broader story, broader measures, which need to be coordinated by several ministries. And I believe that both the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Economy and the rest of the ministries will clearly define a new national development strategy and everything we need in order for this country to really prosper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70489	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70490	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Sokol, here you have also pointed out, that when this one, these amendments of the law have brought more than 500 pages of objection and that, this testifies to a deep division of our society, both institutions and universities, and that. However, in the debate you pointed out that a quality system should be adopted and that the Croatian qualification framework does not determine the quality system. I would disagree here, I think that the quality system is an essential element of this law, but we have the fact that the rules that concern the quality system are currently being passed, and I think it would be a lot less division and a lot less debate, if this one, and this one, right here, were passed in some package and with the rules of the quality system, because I think people are chasing, three terms, and that's the level, kind and quality of these things. Well, here, if you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70491	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70492	Thank you very much. A colleague, just to be clear, means that rules are not passed, but specific laws, or amendments to the existing quality assurance law, which is then the legal basis for the whole procedure, accreditation, etc. And it's a very detailed process and I agree. I agree, in principle, that it is better to do such things in a package, because one law is complemented by another. But what's even more important than I said in the debate is the roof law. Because without roof law, which determines what kind of calling there are, which are universities, which are high schools, etc. you can not then move on to this second part, which are conditions and so on and then to this last part, which is the Croatian qualification framework. And there seems a little bit sometimes, at least to some on the side that maybe we're going the other way, that we should have taken off from the basic law, and ended up here. What is, however, the reason why this law went first, as far as I understand it is a matter of the Constitutional Court's decision and of the legal uncertainty that exists and needs to be solved. As far as division is concerned, I agree, I'm afraid that for the past few years, our very system of higher education, which has not been so divided, at least somehow it's been a little bit more jagged, has become some standards of good relations, of collegiate, which has completely broken down. And then you have a situation where at some colleges, people get retired, just because they don't respond ideologically or at the moment they don't form a college council. Now that's what's not good and that's where we are and unfortunately that policy had a very big impact they took our system. And he thinks it's not good, and I think we should all try to rise above it and have as many argumentative discussions in this House as possible, as little personal attacks on anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70493	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70494	Thank you. My colleague, I will refer to that part of your debate in which you stressed the need to really rise above any kind of debate concerning any personal or any politicization of any part of the problem related to the education system in general. And I agree with that when you say that this is exactly the kind of approach that we should take to the point where we have another contribution to the entire beauty of all possible polarisation in our society, which in this case is the polarisation of the academic community, which, with the fundamental theme of discussion on the value of professional and university studies for society, we have come to agree that they are equally valuable and that we distinguish them by the type of qualifications needed for the workplace or for the labour market, and I certainly agree with that we should rise from that level of pausal debate that the studies are more or less demanding, I believe that this is a flat-rate approach and I hold that this is something that is simply not good. And also when you talked about quality, at some point you mentioned the liberalisation of the education system, and that's a trend that we can't deny, we can't avoid it. And a very good society can recognize the quality of only one example of practice, and we will come to that, the market will show. When you want a good electrical engineer, what do you think first? The Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing in Zagreb, and when you want a good nurse, think about the University of Health in Zagreb or when you need a good financier, the School of Finance and Management of the RIF in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70495	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70496	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bedekovic, I agree that competition is good and we need the competition as much as possible. So we have a lot of sectors where we've had some kind of monopoly, we know what the prices were, what the services were, and we see what happened, and how many improvements have been since it was liberalized, I think I absolutely agree. However, as far as quality itself is concerned, the fact is that this market will, to a large extent, decide who is employable and who is not, but I would point out another problem here and that is that very often the state itself follows what it has prescribed, here's an example. We started with Bologna with the goal that people who finish three years of Baccalaureus can get a job. And what happened? Today, you in the state administration can't hire these people on jobs that you once asked for a high-level expert prepares. So we have a complete paradox, so someone who was then in some institutions might say here I've increased the number of highly educated, a percentage from 6.7% to 15, 16%, right? And it's not good, it's just this story that we need this combination of different laws and different sectors to make sense of everything together, not that the state here prescribes one thing and at the other level it blocks it. So what's the point of these baccalaureus? And it's precisely because of such national legal legislation now that all studies are slowly becoming integrated, here's the legal study is integrated, the economic study is integrated, eventually everyone will become integrated, that's what it looks like. And then the real question is what we as Croatia want from this higher education system in the first place, and that is where we need to determine ourselves, means to set a few clear priorities and then work on them, and I believe that this will also be part of the story of when a new national development strategy will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70497	The next replica is the respected representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70498	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Sokol, I agree with you in this work when you were talking about Bologna, that unfortunately here many years later we see that perhaps we haven't applied the whole reform process as we were supposed to and in the replica I'll look back at what you said, yes, the intensity of Bologna, now I'm going to simplify completely, with all the other intensities that she had, in fact after 3 years of investment the state in a young person we have something that the labour market recognizes, for a lot less money, but that we have something that has been trained for the labour market in that kind of way and 5 years has actually needed to be some added value. Unfortunately after that, people who had completed their pre-graduate studies, so-called "Students". “Bakalers”, the market absolutely does not recognise, does not recognize, and we actually instead of producing persons for the labour market who, after 3 years, could also step into the labour market, we are now actually persons in most cases have to end 5, in most cases 5 years to recognize the market. On the other hand, I can agree with the great part of your debate and what you said about the Constitutional Court's verdict, you have unnecessarily politicized in your second part of the debate, involving Mr. Rector of the Zagreb University as usual in your debate. As parliamentary representatives, we have the right to open all issues concerning social problems in the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, what Croatian citizens pay, they set out of their budget, which is financing universities, higher universities. The autonomy of the university means autonomy in development, in perspective, cooperation between other students, leadership and no autocracy, law violations, repression, etc., etc. And you can't forbid, no one here mentioned today the Zagreb Rector but the fact is that even in Croatian studies some things happen, not only there, some things that we can also cover are harmful to Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70499	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70500	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague, Glasovac, I'm glad that we, as always, agree on almost everything, I think that's a good way to deal with different political options, but we don't agree on the important one, and that's a question of who's politicizing and who's not politicizing. I think the story of politicisation began long before this, started at another university in Zagreb when the street tried to take over in some way when some politicians supported it. As for the need to highlight the problems, yes, but there are competent bodies. So, please no intrusion, I let you speak, indeed. Please don't break in. I let you talk. I mean really, really Mostly means certainly to warn about problems, but not to interfere in the jurisdiction of other bodies of the type and question who hired whom, who got the contract of work, who didn't get the contract of work, etc. [[Intruder Reiner: Please do not throw.]] I don't think it's the work of this House, but of some other institutions, of the ministry in one part of the administration, although that's the question, because it's in front of the Constitutional Court now, up to the question of the Labour Inspectorate, etc. What's wrong with using this pay phone, this booth to put pressure on some people and to get someone's favorites hired, someone's other favorites wouldn't, etc. So I don't think I'm the one who's politicizing. I think politicization started a few years ago from some people on the other side of this assembly, so I hope it doesn't move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70501	The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70502	Thank you very much. Colon Sokol, one of the topics you pointed out on several occasions is the work of the sectoral councils. Here's what might be good is that on our Education Committee we have one session to see what the sector councils have done and whether this job is going in the direction it's imagined. Someone said the National Council for Human Resources Development didn't make a statement, it's not true. At the time, the current minister was also a member and they had just supported a variant that is now going into the parliamentary procedure. What I would ask you, in the end, is not completely clear to me whether you as a club, you spoke on behalf of the club and you support our thinking that there must be no discrimination and that even students of specialist studies with respect to university autonomy and the conditions that the university will determine should nevertheless allow access to doctoral studies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70503	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70504	Okay. Thank you very much. I'll start at the end. I mean, I was very clear in the end that the HDZ club supports this law, so I think there are no dilemmas, I just pointed out that the thing is not simple, that it's not black-and-white, that there are arguments of both sides but that have some weight and that we should consider, rather than automatically dividing left, right, professional university etc. And we say this is all bad, this is all good and vice versa. So that was the point. So things are a little more complex in real life than any of our divisions. As far as the bodies you mentioned are concerned, the National Council is often mentioned for the development of human potentials. However, I would mention another body that is important in our system, which is actually the most important body, which is not a ministry, which is the National Council for Science and Technological Development. So this is a council which also plays an extremely important role and which plays a fundamental role in the basis of this very basic law, the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Its composition is so defined that key stakeholders inside are represented and I certainly hope and believe that through all these legal changes and a new package of laws including the Quality Insurance Act will remain that roof body in our system of science and higher education, so that it is also mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70505	The next replica is the respected representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70506	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Sokol, you have pointed out the importance of quality education several times, and here I agree absolutely with you. She's something she can't go under, she just needs to be promoted whether it's public or private universities. But at one point you mentioned allowed discrimination among citizens. I didn't catch exactly what you were thinking, because discrimination as discrimination was not allowed, and you said there is no discrimination against those others, and according to their own. Well, if you can explain that to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70507	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70508	Thank you very much. So I was talking about EU competences. So the EU doesn't deal with how you organize so-called. ... means a situation that has no cross-border element. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] So it's not the EU's job. The other thing is discrimination, but under our constitutional law. You understand? So two are different legal bases. So the EU can only influence, prohibit discrimination between different countries where there is this cross-border element, but it is not concerned and is not competent to regulate internal situations that have no connection with this international element with other countries. That's what this is about. So it is clear that we do not always call on the EU uncritically because it simply needs to be very precise in both this area and other areas. And education is particularly important, because then of those fundamental competences where Member States are still primary and where they themselves have autonomy of decision-making on the organisation of systems, financing etc. Because I've noticed very often, I'm not talking about this law right now, but in general, we often call on the EU when we want to push through, so we say they imposed it. Things aren't that simple. And in the EU, you have the space to define for yourself the part that matters to you if you know how. The other thing is we don't know how very often.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70509	The next replica is the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70510	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sokol, somewhat on the trail of what my colleague Jovanovic said and listening to your presentation, I realized that in fact only the last sentence from your presentation was actually the position of the club when you said that the HDZ club supports this law. Because in fact, the first part of your exposure that was related to the subject wouldn't actually come out of it that you would support this law. What was in the middle of your exposure was some kind of deal with people you didn't list. That kind of reminded me of what you know when at a committee meeting someone tells their comrades to be completely specific some comrades do that and so on. So, name and last name, don't force the population. It's eloquent here. If you have someone to charge for something then do it, we can do it here. On the other hand, the rector Boras didn't mention anyone here until you did. But really no one. And I think in a situation where we have a consensus, at least among the biggest parties in this House about this bill, it was unnecessary. So that's what I'm interpreting and I'm not the only one who interprets it here in a way that actually your part of the presentation except for the last sentence was about the fact that you worked at the Ministry of Science, or you were an official at the time of Minister Barisic. It is clear that there is a conflict between Minister Barisic, at least there was then, that is, the way he did things and the way Minister Divjak does, the way my party and I personally view education policy. I mean, it's totally okay. But your presentation, apart from the last sentence, was actually your personal attitude, not your club's position. We can also see this by the way your colleagues and colleagues have replicated to you from the Club of Representatives. Let's just be aware of that, it's a framework in which you should interpret your exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70511	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70512	Thank you very much. Here, I can give you in writing my presentation, so you will see, where I have made it clear, that the inability, i.e. to put at different levels, between professional and university studies, is an unauthorized restriction on the freedom to provide services in the EU. So I think it's very clear, I can do it again, for those who didn't understand. As far as the conflict is concerned, it means some conflict, as far as I know, I think the attitude of the former furniture, this particular set was the same question, how familiar it is to me and how much I remember. So I think that's where you missed, actually, what you'd say, the whole ball. And as for the university, i.e. ad homo attacks, means, okay, no individual mentions, neither did I mention them, but an explicitly executed colleague of Jovanovic as a university. The university, the vice president and the proctor. So fellow Jovanovic specifically mentioned it, you can look at the transcript. So it's not true that I was the first to mention a university, a particular person, etc. And for not talking about names, I don't think it's right, that there are some people in the House who are ad-hominem who can't defend themselves, who aren't here by name. I think that practice has other parties, because I don't think we should go down to that level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70513	And the last replica is the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70514	Thank you very much, dear fellow Falcone, says she didn't like him, a beautiful book and a beautiful movie. However, in your presentation, this very light motive of the book sounded a little bit, when you spoke about the Croatian qualification framework, in the sense that this very Croatian qualification framework, as it is set and as we predict it to be, is not exactly what you would like and what you would like. No matter what you swear, the former set meant the same thing. But to lay things on what they really are, that the Croatian qualification framework is part of what the EU wanted to achieve. This means that no matter where you have education, that your outcome, competence and knowledge must meet the standards, other countries where you want to get a job. And the closure of our market, that is, our education system only on our labour markets, not allowing these young people to have skills in competence and knowledge, that they can run for jobs and in other countries, is to limit the freedoms we signed when we joined the EU. Therefore, looking at your exposure, it absolutely does not result in you agreeing that there should be no discrimination, it exists between studies in Croatia. The most important example is nurses, who have problems with employment in EU countries due to these problems. And that's what we need to talk about, so the Croatian qualification framework is a law for young people, for the price of Croatia, so that they can have knowledge and skills for our labour market and for the EU labour market, and we need to look at it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70515	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70516	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad my colleagues in the SDP are reading to me, I mean, you're very insightful about that, I congratulate you on that. But if we were to focus on the facts right now, I mean, I don't really like to talk about a personal example at the end, but it would be really funny if I were speaking, against, let's say, professional studies for discrimination, because I teach myself and I taught professional studies, so I think it's a completely missed story. However, what... There are nuances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not stuff, like I said black white. And that's why you need to listen a little more carefully and more thoroughly to what's being said. So, first of all, as far as closing goes, I'm absolutely against closure, but the HKO Act, whatever it is, won't stop someone of ours from going out to the doctorate. So outside, the university, no matter what we write in our law, will evaluate, means someone who's graduated from the university, whether they can get a doctorate or not. So no one out there is bound by our law, you see. So if someone in Leven estimates that someone who's finished doesn't know, Vern or some other high school meets the requirements for a doctorate, they'll sign it up, whatever we write in the HKO Act. So he thinks that part is necessary to understand. There's no way we can limit our people from going out here. We can limit them in Croatia, that's what this law is about. Do we restrict our students more in Croatia than we would have the right to go out. But it's different things. As for that, whether I support the law again or not, I mean, of course, I don't have to justify myself to you. What I think is, in this situation where we are, where we have the law, where we have the system, we have the Constitutional Court's decision, this is the best solution. I was just talking about those springs that were five years ago that there might have been something different or not. But in this situation where we are now, of course, this is the best solution and I support it and I don't think there's any dilemma, it just needs to be a little more concentrated when there's a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70517	Thank you very much. We will now go to the next Club of Representatives and this is that of GLAS and HSU-A in the name of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70518	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, this discussion has revealed a lot more than the subject of this law itself. And as usual when talking about education, and especially about higher education, I think it would really be good to have a debate about it, and perhaps especially for those representatives, who are particularly interested, to join such a debate in the committee. Because he obviously has different opinions and great interest. Two things or two pairs of things I want to mention about this law. One applies to the two important things he deals with and regulates, both in our opinion the good and club GLAS and HSU will support it. And the other couple refer to the question of righteousness, injustice, equality, not equalising people who study different types of studies. Well, first of all, it's more about the debate that's been conducted here than the law itself or the amendments and the additions of this law, so first of all, as far as the two things I think this law clearly defines and thus answers the whole problem of constitutional lawsuits, certainly caused by a whole series of interests that were spinning around in public, but such facts were and were to be answered. I think the law doesn't determine two important things, one thing is that in the distinction between university and professional studies, university studies or integrated studies are a prerequisite for doctoral studies. On the other hand, it says that at a variety of 6 accommodations of two types of qualifications, this qualification is obtained by completing undergraduate vocational studies and undergraduate university studies, and that at the level of 7.1 the accommodation of qualifications is obtained through the completion of specialist vocational studies and university studies, as well as integrated undergraduate and graduate university studies. In other words, by saying at these two levels lower than the doctorate to put it simplisticly, it equals these two types of diplomas or studies. And I think it's a positive shift, so there's no further dilemma about it. And on the other hand, the doctorate defines it as a prerequisite for a doctorate university study. It seems acceptable to me and we will support it, but the whole debate we are having is less encouraged by what is defined in this law, and more encouraged by the whole problem that is rarely discussed in this assembly, which is a question of the quality of studies at and at universities honestly and at different professional higher universities in the Republic. We're a country that seems to be now 4 million people, so no more 4,2, 2.4 than 4 million people, in these conditions generating so many quality studies would really be a great success, so it's impossible. And something we have to insist on, at the same time I would say, while understanding education is changing, so in many ways undergraduate studies and completing undergraduate studies today, there is this status that, perhaps 40, 50 years ago, had a high school graduation. And in order for a person to do something at all very often, he must complete an equivalent of something that is a post-school education, and whatever he is doing, he will definitely have to, if he has only secondary education, he will definitely have to be educated for a lifetime, so he will have to learn more regardless of what form. But you remember it was in the 1990s and early two thousand horrible inflation of different higher schools, all possible institutions, and at the universities organisations of different studies, enrolling a bunch of students for whom there was not enough space, let alone enough teachers. I remember this one argument from my own university, that they'll be out by the second year, and now let them push in the first year, not everyone will come to class, and then they'll fall out and we'll have plenty of room and teachers for them. So from this quality dimension, in one reverse process, it passed on to the emphasis on quantity, so as many students and as many different studies as possible without many criteria. I remember studies organized all over Croatia that had me thinking 4 or 6 all sets of permanent teachers, and they were organized into one 5.6 Croatian cities that would by no means qualify for a high school level. Bologna has been properly criticised and there are many shortcomings, but there is one in particular for countries such as us as an unusually important and potentially very positive dimension, which is the mobility of students and teachers. So it introduces the possibility that students also go to other universities during their studies simply to raise their criteria. Because as we do, we need to raise the criteria relatively quickly for teachers and students at our higher universities of different profiles and different names. The only way to do that is to kind of network them with well-established higher education institutions, therefore to European universities, which will then impose these criteria and where our students will either go there and see simply what a good lecture or well-organized seminar means, and at the same time teachers from those universities, first and our teachers, professors, but it is almost important because good teachers always get offers and go somewhere outside to teach, but let's say assistants, professors, so younger teachers will have the opportunity to go to such universities and of course teachers from those universities come to lecture with us. It's in my opinion the only way to speed up real imposing higher standards and real quality control. We have all these institutions, agencies that need to be dealt with, in a small academic community like ours, that's where everyone knows each other. Everyone knows who's who and I won't insult my colleague right now, and my colleague won't insult me. As soon as you have an external evaluation, which is introduced into the National Science Foundation by people who have no idea exactly who it is or if it's someone who knows something, then they have a clue, but they see it as not based on some collegiate relationship but on the basis of real content, it's going to change. And that is why this whole debate is about the rights arising from the completion of a professional study and the rights arising from the completion of a university study and I repeat in this qualification framework it refers exclusively to going to a doctorate that hands to the heart, is not such a massive phenomenon in Croatia at the moment. So, this whole debate, in my opinion, has its roots in this inflation of higher education and post-school institutions posting secondary education and a lack of implementation of what may have been the most significant and most valuable in the whole idea of Bologna reforms, which is international mobility. International standards, when someone comes to you to teach from Oxford or from Sorbonne or Sapientia, somewhere from some strong university, you immediately see the difference between domestic standards and some serious standards. And if she's big, the students recognize and look for something different. So if we were to solve this part more successfully, control of quality, impose quality both at universities and in professional studies, it would probably be a lot of what is said today in this debate, but while we have this problem, so far we are dealing with it. We will certainly uphold this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70519	I thank Mrs. Pusic for this debate. We have several replicas, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pusic, I listened carefully to your presentation and one of your words stuck to my ear, which is quality. I fully agree with you if our system protects, promotes quality, then a lot of things will disappear from our discussions and especially ideologies and use of such discussions for cheap purposes. What I particularly want to point out, and you said, if we encourage quality and work on it persistently, and you said one example that certain sub-capitated institutions open, perform classes etc., and I'm glad that you confirmed that there are such cases, at the Ministry, at the Science Agency, etc., so the task is responsible for taking care of it. But I'd like to ask you something else. It is constantly about the coherence of education with the needs of the economy and the market. Now, colleague Pusic, look at our economy in recent years, what's been going on with it. If we lose the INA and it goes down, how's our college gonna end up mining-geological-naphtha? If we have a problem with shipyards, so it doesn't work out, what's our engineering and shipbuilding colleges going to do? To be more specific, do you have the impression that we are all increasingly training our children, students and high school students, regardless of which, everyone agrees and I have no doubt that all profiles are equally valuable, without which we cannot live, for the purposes of other countries, multinational companies, and how do you think we can keep young people who are very promising with the development of education when we see that we do not have a clearly developed economic strategy to stay in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70521	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic. Answer, colleague Pusic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70522	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague Lovrinović. So, I think that we first of all have to watch that we train these people for them, that we want the best and the best people to produce through our education system. If we have quality people, these people will push those industries, these people will have the strength to support you, support you, add additional values inside, establish maybe not concrete these shipyards, but establish some new shipyards or IT companies or anything like that. My opinion, that when you have quality she will find her way. Is someone gonna go outside? Ma will go out, but if they have good conditions here education is one thing, but if they have good conditions for entrepreneurship here, everyone will eventually love to be at home if they can work just as well as anywhere else. So my opinion is that we don't have to give up pushing quality and some of those studies because we have problems in certain industries. We have, I don't know if we're still in effect, but we had an industrial strategy that's like key branches, as far as I can remember the instructions of IT technology now, the instructions of meditrerading, machine production, energy, I think there were 6 industries then were later I think added agriculture. But I mean, if we have good people and it seems to me the starting point they'll find their way a lot easier and help the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70523	I thank my esteemed colleague Pusic for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70524	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Professor Pusic. In the part of your presentation where you spoke of mobility as one of the great value of the bologna for Croatia, I completely agree, but I think there is another element. Regardless of the negative effects we perceive and the objections we may have, I think there is another change that has happened, and that is generally in the system of funding science, and therefore in these research networks that I think allow our scientists to really in a way that may not have been possible before are involved in the latest research to get good funding for projects, to actually move away from the state budget that has its significant limitations. And moreover, not only that, but there is still this moment that from the earliest days since you start some kind of career research, so when you get a PhD in science, the possibility of a double doctorate or a cotote allows you to get a PhD in science with really got schools, and then in some European context, it has a weight. Well, here's my comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70525	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. Reply from colleague Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70526	Thank you very much. Two things both very important, so the system of funding science, we really have to, I'd say it's our investment in life in survival. As abstract as it often seems to people, what lets you deal with a small number of people, it's not true, it's actually if somewhere there's that trickle down effect that I don't admit in the economy, but here there's when you invest in science, it goes to the turn to anything else because it causes that effect, and there's really a need to get serious as soon as possible. And as for the possibility of a double doctorate, in my opinion, it's the only fast way to increase quality. Because as long as they're done for me for the next generation and the colleges get better, as soon as you have close cooperation with a strong academic institution, she'll impose her standards. And let's say it was my wish to make it with our universities, to connect with some strong ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70527	I thank my esteemed colleague Pusic for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70528	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pusic, I will only take a short time to allow me to connect to your one key, one of the sentences I really agree with, and it was really impossible to generate such a number of quality studies and absolutely agree. So this is something that we have today as a result of inflation really, let's be honest and put our hands on the heart of the university, higher schools, private higher schools, and universities of new ames everywhere, so at some point Croatia was in line with the policy approach to developing higher education had one good intention of making it more accessible to study in smaller environments. And so for two thousand years, the number of public and higher schools in smaller communities increased, and that was one good intention and good desire. But sometimes, not to sound rude, but I will say, the road to hell may be filled with good intentions. Why? I agree with giving the chance for small environments to educate their young, but it must be in controlled conditions. At that time we did not clearly establish, we did not take into account quality criteria both of the input material and of the method of design, etc. I would say that somehow, in a slow way, and in the awareness of certain leaders of these institutions, that they take care of quality, and at the same time, after that whole story, I have to say universities and then, in the above mentioned competition, we have a whole series of dislocated university studies in different smaller environments as competition. So there you, among other things, are the results of the re-accreditation that denied the credentials for 20 study programs mostly dislocated. So I think that all of this that you've been saying about the importance of caring and quality we absolutely need to take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70529	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic. Reply from colleague Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70530	Thank you very much. So, we're in the squawks between that, that actually a man, naturally, would want and love, anyone who wants and has a minimum of abilities, would make it possible to post a high school education. And on the other hand, a guarantee of quality in actually small material has, a small country has, a small society, it is most important, there are few people. We are not yet able to attract in larger numbers foreign professors and people who could teach there. Also, the inflation of higher education programmes, i.e. different institutions of post-medium education, was partly out of good intentions, and frankly, it was partly out of bad intentions. I mean, there were people in there, who caught different fees in the mud, and built 500 places, teaching something that was currently in '52. and stuff like this. I mean, there's a lot going on here, I've forgotten what a famous man who in the meantime doesn't do that anymore, notorious, more than famous was a great example of it. But that's why the question of quality is so important to us. So today's undergraduate study, I'd say, something almost everyone should have a chance to finish. But not anything, not anything. To ensure that this international cooperation is, I mean more important than it is, it's always more important, and it's more important than usual.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70531	I thank my esteemed colleague Pusic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDSS representative club, respected counterpart Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70532	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we have listened to a rich debate so far about this one small short bill, when I look at its text, however, this short text has caused great debates, when we look only at the comments in the public debate, so how many remarks are made, how many are they explained, how much opinions are conflicting there in both the academic community and the public, and here we are among the parliamentary representatives in the assembly. I think it's a good thing it's forcing the Proposer to essentially propose those solutions that are of quality and that they explain their solutions as best as possible and stand behind them. We could conclude that we are actually in the main problems, which we are now talking about about this law, that they actually came out of some good, some bad intentions, but probably from good intentions, policy development, our system of education, when we didn't really care about quality, and the goal is for all of us to have quality education. I'm not going to go very broadly to explain the views of the SDSS clubs and the analysis of this law, but I'd like to highlight two things. So, certainly from EU law, and this stems from the basis of this law, it follows that it is not a favourable treatment, which we would prescribe for the students of professional studies, compared to those who will complete university studies, we cannot apply to those who have completed their professional studies in the EU and have acquired certain rights in the EU labour market. When we look at it, therefore, and draw the line, and it is clear that once we have prescribed adverse treatment, for those who have completed a professional study in the Republic of Croatia compared to professional ones, those who have completed a professional study in a European country or EU country, in order for the members of professional studies in the Republic to actually be discriminated against. Of course, EU rights, not as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia protects university autonomy, and this law allows the continuation of education to be regulated in accordance with the right of universities themselves to develop the conditions of accession to further study, and this is what we hear and hear today, major public objections and today in the assembly. And I think the Ministry today decides to propose one approach, I think that until the second reading, the arguments of the other party should be considered, whether to allow access to graduates, specialist studies, that under certain conditions they may still be able to access the doctoral study, because the fact is that they can do so in EU Member States. In any case, these draft laws seek to level and correct what has not been done so far, and therefore this law, or the draft law, should be supported. But when we look at the wider picture, a little wider on what this law is about, then we see that we have this lot of absurdity and discrimination in the mazes of our regulations. What I would like to draw attention to is what my colleague Furio Radin was asking the Minister on the current morning, when he mentioned, so the people who ended up in Trieste conservatory to whom many Croatian citizens are going, and who are being scholarshipd by the Italian Republic, so they finish their studies there, they go back to the Republic and have problems, they can't get a job. I can't get solved about a regulated profession, I can't teach in schools, they're driven to the stock market, without paper, they're actually nobody, they're finished with an international admission study. I think we should definitely approach a solution to such a question because it's really absurd. Is the solution, therefore, to use the instruments of the European Qualifications Framework through the qualification framework to approach harmonisation on various qualifications rather than comparing study programmes and thus to recognise these people's right to work and professions that are regulated. I think it might be a good approach and that it should settle not yesterday, not wait tomorrow. So, it doesn't wait tomorrow, but I simply find it inadmissible that someone who, therefore, finished international recognition of study, went back to the Republic of Croatia, so came back, we have brain drains, we're leaving people with diplomats, we're draining young people, and here we have people who want to go back, who ended up out there, and we're actually making it impossible for them to access the labour market. Someone mentioned nurses. I'll just mention them briefly, because that's where the problems just multiply. We have a situation where we have nurses who have recognised the diploma, they've passed professional training, and they can't take a state expert exam in the Republic of Croatia, they can't be recognized anymore. They must pass the procedure in accordance with the Law on regulated professions, the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. And they are actually going through this process through one goal in a way that actually makes it more impossible for them to get to the labour market than is possible. I think that these and such problems should be warned because we have a very large number of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who ended up with nurses, for example in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro. So here they have been given a certificate, or diploma, but they have, so the problem of how to come to a solution to a regulated profession, how to submit proof of the additional measure that has been carried out precisely because of the forest regulations that are unarranged, vague and could actually be said discriminatory. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70533	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boris Milosevic. We have one replica. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70534	Thank you very much. Comrade Milosevic, this is the big problem you pointed to. This means the recognition of foreign professional qualifications resulting from the foundation and in some way from the Law on regulated professions, where, of course, the regulated professions and those in the education system, means from pre-school and beyond. However, it is not actually regulated by this law, but as a state, we have a problem in the implementing acts that we were obliged to adopt, in fact until the moment of Croatia's accession to the EU. We worked on it, we didn't solve it. So this is where we need to see how we compare foreign professional qualifications, if we are to prescribe additional conditions, for example knowledge of Croatian language if a person wants to work at a Croatian school, EU citizens do not know the language etc. etc. It means something, a matter that isn't regulated by this law. It's very complex. I hope that this government and the composition of the ministry will be able to find a solution to all these problems. Secondly, when we talk about nurses there are actually all the assumptions that the story is going smoothly. We were under pressure from the EU a long time ago while Mr. Fuchs was a minister, all of our four-year programmes for nurses and technicians had to be translated overnight into five-year curricula for nurses general care and general care technicians without being able to, then we implemented a procedure of conditions that schools had to meet spatial, material, we had problems in the protests, but we provided it. So today they're learning by the curricula of five-year-olds who are consistent with European curiculas and they can actually cross the border tomorrow without taking anything. However, the answer to this question cannot be given either by the minister or by this law. The chamber is the one that constantly, here I will very clearly say obstructs the application of positive regulations which European, which is Croatian and there is actually a chamber for some reason, I don't know if anything has changed, obviously it's not the thing that's the problem and things are pretty clear there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70535	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina the Voice. Answer from fellow Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70536	Dear fellow Glasovac, I will not fully agree with you that this law is absolutely not touching that matter, but that it is not touching or touching, I certainly think it is necessary to warn this problem that I have raised and which you have now commented in your replica. I can accept that the problems of recognition, especially of foreign professional qualifications, existed when entering the EU, that there may have been a year, two, three. Now here we are EU members for five years. We can analyze what these were difficulties in implementing these sublaws, who are obstructing. So, if someone is obstructing the implementation of the rules, we have bodies that therefore oversee the implementation of such regulations and then bodies that monitor the implementation of the regulations should respond. If the regulations are not good thank God if it comes to laws, we will change them here in the Croatian Parliament. If this is about implementing regulations, the competent resolution ministers can change it for me without problems, of course, with an expert analysis which is actually a real problem. Because I'm saying, after five years of EU membership, I don't think we can justify ourselves by having no experience and no practice in applying the rules, and we have live people who want to live here, who want to work here, and they're actually disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70537	I thank my fellow Milosevic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. In the name of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70538	Dear ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the Education Strategy. The education strategy actually defines the future of our country because it is the education system that raises young people. Unfortunately, our society is in bad shape. The extent to which the education system is responsible for this is for us to evaluate each of us. However, what is missing from our education system for me is the most critical thinking. Children are taught reflex obedience to authority. School programs don't teach children critical truths. Here I mean not only primary and secondary schools, but even economic colleges. Basic knowledge of the monetary system, the role of the central bank, that knowledge is not taught in schools. The question that's being asked is, why isn't learning? Which is why our people, or our society, don't know, forgive Mr. Shucker, is it normal for you to during your speech... Someone comes and... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's just you guys keep talking. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70539	Mr. Pernar, this manner of behavior and expression is inappropriate in this House of Highs. A colleague is Shuker, like all MPs in the Parliament, and you have come among them at the chair of the table and asked for certain technical information while others spoke. So please don't react that way. It's not appropriate. It's not correct, and let's not take away from other colleagues what you are. I'm asking you if you want to continue the debate, continue. But don't be mad at something you've done. And he didn't disturb you in anything, and I'm really asking you not to react that way in this High House.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70540	Excuse me. I've experienced his behavior not as a deliberate distraction, but simply think he could have said more briefly what he wanted you to say to him. But good. I want to say that the truth about the monetary system is not known in Croatian society. So, society doesn't know that the entire system is based financially on a loan and a loan that can't be returned. One of you will say, "John, why are you talking about it?" It may not matter now for this debate. However, it is because as long as the knowledge and awareness of the monetary system is not put into the education system for generations that come as well as those who have already arrived it will not be clear why the state of Croatia cannot repay loans, why units of local self-government cannot repay loans, why state-owned enterprises such as Autoroad, shipyards, railways cannot repay loans, why Agrokor could not repay loans, why Petrochemy Kutina cannot repay its loans. I could go all the way and talk to the firm about a company that's failed because credits can't come back. And not just that. Our course, as such, does not reflect the real value or the power of our currency. And that's why import products are cheaper than they should be. When these two factors connect, it means an unrealistic course plus the default of the loan, we get a break in the first production economy, and then every other one. After all, our people, or our country, are in a state of permanence and to make things worse, there is an escape of people from our country. This escape by continuing the current policy cannot be stopped because the current policy has led to it. Someone will say, or blame HDZ and SDP for that. I won't because I know those parties were just implementing a policy that was externally defined. The awareness is that they served unfortunately other people's interests, not the interests of the voters who chose them. The debt management system, and the external one that flows into the internal one, experienced a breakdown in Croatia. We are now at the heart of a single policy and I would dare say in the dawn of creating a new policy, a policy of resistance to this system that destroys and enslaves our society. However, the keys to freedom are not in my hands, but in the hands of our citizens who can but absolutely only get Croatia out of this situation by going out to elections and supporting those parties, or those policies that oppose the enslavement of their own country. Whether our citizens in the elections will continue to support this system, I don't know. But I see that every day citizens wake up. I see that every day new people open their eyes and grow like an organization from month to month. It's my greatest joy I can experience. And I want to tell all the MPs here, I am not your enemy and I do not view you as enemies for the reason we live in the same country and more or less all of us belong to the same people and we all care about the survival of our country. It is logical, therefore, that if we want good for our country, we should stick together and run that policy that is in her interest. However, since most MPs in the Assembly do not want to lead the policy of the sovereignty of their country and the rights of our country to its own policy, not the policy imposed on it, we have found ourselves on the opposite sides. It is my wish and hope that one day we meet on the same side, but not in a way that I find myself on yours, but that you stand up for resistance. It is my desire for HDZ to become a state-run party again, that everything they fought for by the 1990s, in 91s, means our country's independence to continue to fight for it. Unfortunately, they stopped fighting. The same thing that I want is for the SDPs, that the SDPs are starting to fight for social society, a society where people don't have to dig through garbage to survive, in which executions and actions are not our daily lives. The question arises, will the education system be asked whether the education system, or the changes in the law on higher education and one pedal, will one centimetre shift our society from this apathy in which it is located? Or would it be better to ask my colleague, Voter, if some young person who plans to leave our country after the law has been passed or if the amendment to that law decides to stay here and not leave? My fear is that the amendments to this law will not keep young people in our country. The only thing that can hold them back is a better life and a better perspective, for them to see that this country has a future. But unfortunately with this policy being led, none of us have a future. My role in this House is, unfortunately, like an old-fashioned prophet who has to keep saying the same things and pointing to the same things. And people ask themselves questions all the time, and why do you Pernar keep saying that? And I remember when I was talking to the Serbs and then one of them told me, you know, there's a story about an Orthodox priest who used to say the same thing every Sunday to the believers at the service. The believers asked him one day, so why do you keep telling us? And he asked them, and did you apply what I said to you? They said we didn't. He said that's why I'm telling you. And if we reformed the monetary system in our country, if the central bank finally took over the role it was meant to play, which is to finance the state and the business banks, not just to serve as a currency exchange. Then I could say, OK, colleagues, so I won't strangle you anymore with that story that the CNB is a currency exchanger, I won't strangle you anymore with the story that money is a debt if you make a mission of money by the Central Bank to a state that isn't based on debt doctrine or the idea of endless borrowing. Until then, my role is to warn you, and reality says that what I tell you is true. That credits can't really be returned to the total sum. That a woman who is a woman who takes a swing, that people flee the country, and that their debts grow faster and faster. The effect of interest is a catastrophic effect. And society can't stop him because there's no place to settle his debts. And unfortunately, in our schools, we don't talk about it, we simply create a generation by generation of students, students who all tap into the dark and all fight for themselves, and we realize that they're all in the same pot that they cook and they don't have a future and there's no life for them, there's no hope in this system. And there won't be any. Last week I went when I found out maybe on Monday I don't remember exactly, when I found out about the SDP verdict that they had to pay 10 million kuna, their debt doubled in a few years. And they don't have that money to pay him now. And what are they waiting for? If the believer sits on the SDP's account, the verdict is a powerful one, the account is blocked, and the SDP's own employees will end up out of work, and the party in the blockade. And I went to the SDP and I told them, ladies and gentlemen, I talked to a woman there, I don't remember her name. And I told her, you see that this policy that you've been running all this time and interest and court costs and justice that is what it is, who has been broken on the head? It collapsed on your head. And now you're going through what our citizens are going through. But what happens when our citizens end up in a blockade, then you tell them ladies and gentlemen that's your problem. You should have thought better, you should have been wise. Now that you're in a situation where you're in front of a roadblock, don't give God and action from the premises in Iblero's Square, now you're just realizing what injustice means, which means when he sits on your neck and you weren't guilty. And that means actually unfair justice. I remember, and on the one hand you invite people to trust this judiciary, to do their job. And then what happens? Then a verdict like that comes to you, and then you're surprised to see that judgment? And I personally think that verdict is terrible because not the responsible persons in the legal person signed a cell for that debt that has now fallen on your head. But you see the court doesn't care. The solution is a powerful one, and there's really not much you can do. It's a Croatian reality, ladies and gentlemen. It's only a matter of time before HDZ can find itself in a situation like this. But, you know, see for yourself, you remember all the media, how much money was drawn from state-owned companies. That verdict to become a power of attorney if you had to return that amount of interest you would find yourself in the skin of the SDP, would be a blocked account, etc. etc. Ladies and gentlemen, the biggest crime of the current system is that it makes it impossible for people to succeed in a fair way. It is my desire to live in a normal society where all of us, in which we are all doing the most normal by law, can succeed. In this system, unfortunately, we are all doomed either to failure or to crime. And that's how it's gonna be until the monetary system changes. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70541	Cheers, fellow Pernar. I would ask you at least in response to the replica and in future your discussions try to stick to the topic because you have said so much. Thank God it's democracy, so you can speak in this High House because you've been chosen. But the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament on which we should all work has been regulated by the basis of Article 238 that we need to be in the topic and talk about the subject, and the current subject is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. Here, I'm just reminding you. We have one replica. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70542	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I probably wouldn't have replicated it if my colleague Pernar hadn't actually challenged me or asked me a question through his debate on behalf of the club, which is not common, but it's not illegal. Comrade Pernar, I think this message of yours I will say love and peace, community, brotherhood and unity has actually been quite missed in the subject itself. But it is this symbolic, because here is the law today in this Croatian Parliament there is a great agreement, so I would dare say to all political parties that the proposal for this law is good. And something that guarantees a better education system, especially when we speak in the quality assurance segment, quality improvements, student mobility, teachers, professors, but also in this part of correcting so far injustices, correcting some discriminatory elements of the law. And in some ways you asked me if this law would improve or prevent a young man from leaving Croatia. I think they will because the proposal of this law, somewhere around 50,000 young people who have completed specialized degrees, will no longer be discriminated against by their colleagues who have completed university studies and I think they will seek their happiness for work or for further education in Croatia instead of going to some other countries that would give them the right because they have slightly different regulated laws. I hope that until the second reading, too, the possibility will be considered once again that persons who have completed these specialized degrees will be allowed a doctorate, access to a doctorate so that they do not have to go to Slovenia, Germany, Austria where the right to do so will be allowed without a problem, and here our law will prohibit them from doing so. So yes. Here, this law will have a direct implications for both young people in Croatia and for improving the quality of education in the Republic of Croatia. Excuse me, Mr. Vice President... [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70543	Thank you. Sir, if you'd be... I mentioned, who would survive? [[You don't understand.]] Here's my colleague Pernar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70544	Dear Representative Voter, you say you might continue your education here, you won't go out. You're right. Maybe some of them will continue their education here. But ask yourself the next thought. If they continue their education here and finish it, will they stay here? We in Croatia now have a situation that the mass of doctor medicine is leaving our country. It's a reality Croatian. Croatia educates people, but for whom? For developing yourself, your country? Yourself? For whose development? Unfortunately, those who finish large schools as well as those who have modest education all leave the country. And this debate reminds me of the situation on Titanic when the orchestra was playing and the boat went down. So that's how we're discussing here today, we're saying that this law will make it possible for students of professional studies to continue their doctoral studies. Let's just say the HDZ colleagues think they wouldn't. But at the end of the day, whether or not he finishes those doctoral studies and both will leave the country, or if they stay there, he will work for poor wages and will not see his future and perspective. That's your reality. It's a reality that we face as soon as possible for everyone, especially generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70545	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. He's not present. Dear colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70546	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My respects to the minister and her associates. Here, I will try somehow to sum up everything we have said about this topic and, of course, try to return the debate after my colleague Pernar on the right subject we are talking about, which is the Croatian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Croatian Qualifications Framework. So, what we have all agreed with so far if we try to recapture that the Croatian qualification framework is actually seen as an instrument that we are harmonising the entire qualification system at all educated levels in the Republic of Croatia through qualifications standards based on learning outcomes, and yet which are in line with the needs of the labour market and thus actually the standards of interest represent a link between the education system and the labour market. And, of course, by placing qualifications on a certain level of HKO, we are able to link the levels of qualifications acquired in Croatia to the levels of the European qualification framework and, of course, to the levels of the qualification framework of the European higher education area. And in this context, HKO can and should also be seen as a reform instrument that thus regulates the entire qualification system in Croatia in a way that ensures both clarity of accession, acquisition, and reliable acquisition and passivity, and then quality of qualifications as well as their integration with all levels of the European qualification framework. And of course, it has already been said when it comes to the European qualification framework. I need to reiterate here that it is not in principle binding on the Member States of the European Union, however, in the context of the pre-accession negotiations, Croatia has made a voluntary commitment to bring its national framework into line with the European framework, and in this respect we have here and we have the commitment to comply with the European Parliament and the Council of Europe's 2005 Directive, and then with its late additions from 2012 and 2013, following which we have assumed the obligation to continue education in the context of a higher level of education, a qualification level for all citizens of the European Union who have completed the previous programme of lower education levels. So, whether it's our citizens in Croatia or Croatian, our citizens who go outside or European citizens who come to Croatia. And in that sense, it is important for me to point out, someone mentioned that sentence that this instrument and this law can actually be observed in light of demographic measures for young people. So it seems to me that this problem needs to be enlightened from that perspective as well. About the chronology of HKO's development we talked about I won't repeat, here in 2016 was somehow our year of dispute over a constitutional lawsuit concerning the housing of graduate and pre-graduate professional and university studies at the same level. We have said all of this, we understand what level they are going to and that it is really only a difference in the type of qualification, and not by its content, and in this sense I believe that this legal solution will maintain the stability of the binary system of higher education in Croatia, that it is in line with the European practice and practice of successful and more comparable educational systems of the countries that are in our environment. And also that what is very important, and our students need to be at the centre of attention, this solution does not endanger legitimate student expectations. They are among the 50 grand who have completed studies, professional studies, or are still studying them. As for continuing their studies at the doctoral level, there were many words about this, and through this legal solution, the possibility of opening doors to one or that way of continuing further study in this leading consideration of the autonomy of universities which can prescribe a follow-up to their regulations. I understand the University here, I understand their desire and efforts to maintain their own positions and in some way to keep the monopoly over studying in Croatia but here, I hold and I believe and I want to believe that through one quality debate there will be a common solution and all in order to strengthen the binary model in the way that the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself has chosen to support and empower and continue to strengthen the binary model of higher education. Especially because I say I stress again at the centre of attention we need to be our students, our young ones. Because when we think a little about what the future is like before us and what the labour market is telling us now and what messages the labour market is sending us, I would say that the time is coming or even it's already come when it's less important where you've studied and what your path has been, how you've climbed up those ladders, whether you've completed a professional and university study, which level, and more than that, will be important what you know, what you can do, what your competences are, and what your qualifications are that strengthens your competent and efficient doing work in your workplace. And in that sense, I think that we should rise above these bickerings about where we're going to put what we're going to do so that we don't fall into a trap of one, I'm looking at it as a cage where, in our own narrowness, we gather ourselves together by being less or more valuable, to be placed on a certain level, and not to look around ourselves, we don't see what countries are doing in the environment that we have here educational systems that we can compare ourselves with, that we don't think about the liberalisation of education throughout the European Union, because of what they're doing. These are trends that we can hide, but we cannot bypass them, and it is important that if we want to profile Croatia, and we also declare it as a society of knowledge and society of lifelong learning, it is important that we talk about these topics in a sound way and explain it. And as an example, we can only take Slovenia, which is a few miles away, which is already about 17 years old, and it seems to me that we have experienced the design of their national qualification framework, so in the context of the question of how many of us in our register have been enrolled? I got the answer one. He's still got them on hold, so this year he'll expect more. I found the data, you know how many Slovenias are registered in the register? Sixth, sixth standard of occupation. That's the information I found. And that would actually be the point of my debate today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70547	Thank you, dear colleague Vesni Bedekovic. Next debate, respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's not present. Dear colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70548	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. First of all, I'd like to express my satisfaction that you're here with us again. You're one of the few ministers who comes to every legislative proposal, and I think it's important, and it sends a certain message. I'm not going to be long, it's already said, I'm going to look back at some things that I would have problems with in my personal name and as an individual debate, it's about 4, 5 things that I have here in a kind of troublesome way. And that, therefore, is the fact that students of a postgraduate specialist study cannot enroll a doctorate in a university study is one of my own anti-demographic measures. I think that this government has repeatedly pointed out that demographics are the key problem of this country, so I think all laws, including this law that has certain demographic measures and improvements and in that part would think. It's about 55,000 students. It is likely that the 55 thousand students will want to enter a doctoral study and I think that every man in which the Croatian state invests in knowledge, education that it goes to European countries, and in European countries it will be possible for it, a loss for Croatia. The second thing that would be problematic is that the Croatian qualification framework should be brought into line with the European competence framework. And we have those recommendations in the Education Strategy, and I think that's one of the things that needs to be done. The third thing is that this law has really caused a big debate and pointed out some fact that our society is academically divided and that it would be better for me to pass with this law a quality law where it would clearly distinguish what quality is, which is a quality system, and I don't think we would have such discussions that it was passed in the package. I also believe that the system of quality and accreditation should be better organised and so organised that it is truly enforceable. For example, in the current system of quality and accreditation there is an evaluation of professors by students, so-called students. polls and the question is whether these surveys are really measuring instruments for measuring the quality of professors, whether they are valid, significant as a measuring instrument. I think one question that a student in that polling list, so the question is, does a professor teach well, I think is whether it's an appropriate question to measure the quality of a certain teacher. Perhaps we should ask the question of how understandable the teacher’s teaching is, or so on.? So here's another fact that I think we should consider. And the last thing I'm going to mention, so this law should be, in a way, allowing the system to pass, and the question is how. Is this another step towards a compromise process, rather than systematically approach problem solving? So I think this law is a step forward but with some amendments and suggestions I think it'll be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70549	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Sladolev. We have a final word on behalf of the proposer. Dear Minister, Mrs Blazena Divjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70550	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I thank you all for taking the floor, who felt the need to discuss this law. This law is extremely important and I have initially said, and I will now repeat that this is the most important instrument for harmonising the needs of the labour market in Croatia and the education system, as well as the recognition of qualifications acquired in the Republic of Croatia, in the European area of education and labour market. In this regard, it is important to recognise it, it is important to improve it because it is the direct reason for these amendments and additions to the Constitutional Court's decision-making law, in which the same level of university graduate studies and professional specialist graduate studies have been completed. However, in fact that reason was used not only to discuss this point means the Constitutional Decision now, but also today's debate has shown that this law represents a continuity of work not only for a few ministers in the last 10 years, but that there is clearly a high level of support for these legal solutions and recognition of this law as an instrument, as well as a demographic policy of retaining young people in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, there are many other topics on which I thank you for pointing out, for example, the topic of filling the register of the Croatian Qualifications Framework. The truth is, we have to work harder on it. But the truth is also that at this point we have a hundred standards of interest that are before the end of these projects means the funds that we received from the European Social Fund and about 200 qualifications standards. Of course, this particular legal uncertainty created by the Constitutional Court's decision certainly did not contribute to the fact that such standards were so spiritually worked on as if such a decision had not existed, that such a decision did not exist. However, we used that time to work on these projects to make standards. On the other hand, the sectoral councils are really full of work now to improve these standards and standards of occupation and standards of qualifications. And what we have also initiated together with the Ministry of Labour is that, for example, procedures for making standards for professions are simplified, because they have to be simpler, more flexible, and they have to enable us not only to enter with a certain standard of interest in the register once, but also to change those standards to be flexible. And in that sense, I thank all those who have noticed that this is something that we need to do much more intensively, faster and better. Also, I will say that it means recognising that a legal solution where a professional study is not discriminated against in relation to university studies with a level-of-level position is a good solution. It is also important to note that regardless of the level, means the study, i.e. qualifications have other characteristics to take into account, above all I point out the characteristic of the species which clearly distinguishes professional and university studies. And in that sense, using this law and harmonising with the standards of qualifications, and using two other laws of importance, a sectoral law, which refers to higher education and science, means the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, that is, the Quality Insurance Act really needs to make an important step in raising the quality of these studies in different ways. One of the important ways of raising quality is precisely the Quality Insurance Act because it gives such studies or qualifications relevance. And relevance actually means that they are recognised on the labour market and that not only on the one hand is to ensure the competences that are now needed on the labour market but also that development component or anti-cryping future needs. So young people need to be employable through the end of education, and in this sense this law is in the Croatian qualification framework of importance. What is also suggested in these amendments and additions is that as an approach for doctoral studies only graduate and university studies, i.e. integrated undergraduate and graduate studies, means university studies. Here we have heard in the Chamber of Different Thinkings, our opinion is that, in this way, we have satisfied what the Constitutional Court has decided, therefore, and asked for the opinion of the Constitutional Court, but we will also consider all this debate that was here to discuss those other possibilities that you have presented in this Chamber and to which I thank you. Also, some parts of the law that may not have come across such an echo in the assembly I will mention meaning, the National Council for Human Resources Development, where this proposal will significantly improve the process of amending members of the National Council in order to ensure the continuity of work. And the National Council for Human Resources Development is extremely active, giving useful input documents to both the Ministry of Our Resort Ministry and other ministries. I will only mention the contributions to the entry policy has also been actively involved in discussions and solutions for these amendments and amendments to the law so that I and the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials in this regard thank you. In this, I will especially highlight the recognition and evaluation of previous learning, this is something that we still have to work on and by the basis of these amendments and the addition of the laws we have set up a rule that would allow us to then recognize and value and recognize, and this previous learning that does not necessarily have to be something that was created in the formal process and ended in qualification, and that is one of the elements that this law specifically provides. And finally, regulated professions have been mentioned several times, this is a special part that has been added to this law that, apart from the sectoral councils being determined according to a certain standard for regulated professions, the opinion of the Central Authority of the State Administration, which is very competent for a particular regulated profession, is also required to avoid the situation which has been presented in this assembly and which has been respected by MPs and MPs. I thank you all once again for your very helpful comments, suggestions. I thank you for your support, because there have been very few dissonant tones, I hope and believe that the other laws that are from the field of education and science will come from such an interest in the Parliament for discussion and, on the other hand, the possibility that these laws will really be of crucial importance, of strategic importance for the development of the Republic of Croatia, we also reach agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70551	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister of Science and Education Mrs Blaženko Divjak for this final word. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank Minister Blaženko Divjak for the reasons and her associates Anita Cizic Gorsic, the head of the sector and Mr Maru Alavanja adviser to the minister. With this, we've exhausted all the agenda points for today. We continue work Tuesday at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the patent law, first reading of P.Z. No. 271. Have a nice rest of the day. Cheers. The seat was interrupted at 14.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-09-0.u70552	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, first reading, P.Z. No. 267. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, the first adoption of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Croatian Qualifications Framework and secondly, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 104 for, 13 abstentions, 3 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
