ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, according to the ruling we have adopted, we are continuing our plenary session today on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in terms of the state of war. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the Supreme Council's decree, all of you have been admitted to the plenary. All in attendance should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to abide by the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. In the event of air anxiety, as we already know, we will announce a break and head to safe places according to the cloaking pattern that is placed in the workplace of each of us. Dear colleagues, according to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin work on the execution of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] There is a 624th era of heroic opposition by the Ukrainian people to criminal Russian aggression. The defense forces courageously reflect the enemy’s constant attacks and continue the offensive operation in the south of our country, causing tangible loss to the invaders of living power and military technology. I propose a moment of silence to the memory of our soldiers who died fighting for free, democratic, European Ukraine, and all the innocent victims of the crimes of the Russian terrorist state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the European Commission presented its annual report, Enlargement Package 2023. For Ukraine, the European Commission's recommendation to start negotiations with Ukraine on the accession to the European Union was a key element of this document. [[Applause]] This is a decision that we've been waiting for for, no doubt, for the last year and a half since Ukraine became a candidate country. I believe that this was the objective achievement of Ukraine yesterday and the recognition of the achievements of our Supreme Council. So I thank all of you in this room for your productive work. It wasn't easy. We have had to make difficult decisions with you, but we have finally made significant progress in implementing the recommendations of the European Commission, as we were told yesterday. We need to understand that the reforms that we are implementing for European integration are primarily reforms that we are implementing for Ukraine, which we need for ourselves, which are expected by Ukrainian society. Our goal is to become a member of the European Union. Let us once again thank our defenders for the opportunity we have to gather and work on European laws. Thank the defense forces. They are one of the main actors and guarantors of Ukraine’s European integration. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, soon in December, the leaders of the member states will adopt a political decision on the opening of the negotiations. We are confident that yesterday’s recommendation will be decisive in adopting a political decision. The next few weeks, all of our diplomatic and other efforts should be directed towards this positive decision. There's a lot of work ahead. The start of negotiations will require further efforts from Ukraine, including the Supreme Council. We're already studying the recommendations that were made yesterday, and we're preparing further steps, especially those bills that we're going to discuss with you here. We have proved to you that we can work quickly and effectively, even in the face of extraordinary challenges, to work as a team of thinkers. Once again, I welcome all of us with yesterday's important event, and I call for work together to achieve our common goal of membership in the European Union. Dear colleagues, also today a very important date, 28 years ago, on November 9, 1995, there was a ceremony for Ukraine’s accession to the Council of Europe. This remarkable event marked the vector of the democratic choice of our state. On that day, Ukraine committed itself to upholding the rule of law, ensuring the fundamental rights and freedoms of all those under the jurisdiction of the Council of Europe. It was then that the State Flag of Ukraine was erected in Strasbourg Square. And today, Ukraine is courageously demonstrating loyalty to these principles, protecting the democracy of the world. Let us welcome Ukraine and the Council of Europe with the fact that we have been together for 28 years. [[Applause]] Also today is the Day of Culture Workers and Masters of National Art, respected colleagues. The sense of national dignity and the sense of identity, the preservation of cultural traditions, these things are very important to any nation. In their activities, cultural workers ensure the continuity of Ukrainian culture and its spread outside Ukraine. Today, in wartime, their mission to inspire and support our soldiers in the service took on special importance. On behalf of the Supreme Council, we welcome people of culture and folk art with a professional holiday. Let us love their creative success, their inexhaustible strength, and, like all Ukrainians, their best victory. Thank you to the cultural workers. And now, to everyday affairs, colleagues, a signal vote. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose that a signal vote be held prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. Please take part in the signal vote. [[10:22:37]] For 214 Green – 214, red – 1 Red – 4, yellow – 2. Data signal. Dear colleagues, we didn't start yesterday, so I want us to go into Bill 10016-d, a bill amending the Code of Taxation and other laws of Ukraine to abolish the moratorium on tax checks. We're going to have about half an hour of speech and right-wing discussions, and we're going to continue to vote. So please schedule your time. And then we start the discussion. We have Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov, first order of business, please. 15 minutes? 15 minutes, Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u2	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. I'm not tired of repeating it, thanks to your work and the work of Elena Kostawny, we finally see people in the hall. I hope they will, too, in the vote, and voting for this shameful law will still be legitimate, but certainly not in the interests of the state. What does Law 10016 say to Ukrainian society? That, unfortunately, you can't trust the authorities. And this lesson will teach both the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian business. Everyone remembers the beginning of a war. At the beginning of the war, authorities, realizing that it is difficult for the State to understand what will happen tomorrow, have united the political elites in this room to support, not politics, but to support, to support the army, to provide the army, and to do so, to ensure that the economy works. At that time, the President, Kabmin, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all officials promised new rules of relations -- honest, transparent, constructive, predictable. This was promised the next time, but the next time they failed, the Ukrainian business was abandoned again. Because they promised to impose small taxes and no checks until the end of the war, plus at least one year after our victory. Perhaps we have already won for someone or have different visions of what a Ukrainian victory is? However, they initially cancelled 8401, with taxes and minimum taxes for the Ukrainian business, and returned part of the checks. I remember how the officials of the Office, the majority, as Vice President of the Office, Mr. Shurma, told us that this would include the IMF, and you voted in favour of the law that violates your promises. You lied to a business that started paying more to the government budget than you did by February 24. How do you plan to rebuild this state and restore it during the war, and restore it after our victory? I think the question is rhetorical, and the lack of strategy is exactly what we're going to get with you today. You and I have actually become from the Parliament of Unity, which was February 24, 2022, to the Parliament of the Fools and the Wise. But the last one, unfortunately, is much less in this room. Because what's happening today is the destruction of our nation's economy. It's the destruction of a small, medium-sized business, it's the destruction of a business that's barely surviving. You didn't do anything to provide it with loans, with the kind of credits that could have been given last year, when you were paid at the premium rate by our international partners. You're thinking of one cell, one step at a time, you don't realize that tomorrow, after the victory, you're going to have to pay back the loans that the state is collecting today. You don't realize that if there's no business, there will be no wages for our army tomorrow, there will be no shells to destroy the invader, there will be no resource to help the country fight and win the war. You're actually doing everything you can to desecrate the Ukrainian economy and, as a result, desecrate the Ukrainian army. I understand that many of you don't care, everyone does their job. It's not about roads and careers, it's not about 200,000, it's not about a lot of other things that bother the authorities. It's not about the 42 million who stole from the Ministry of Defense, and everyone in the room is silent. It's not about the billions. I'm sorry. It's not about the billions that our journalists took out with you yesterday, and they painted a perfectly transparent primitive scheme of how the state budget for defense purchases is being stolen. You'd be more interested. I think so, but still. In direct text, the Court of Auditors accuses the ministries of spending shamefully inexplicably on what. And you're taking money from local authorities. You're taking money from the Ukrainian business. You don't have enough of the billions you've ripped off of 17 bracelets in one egg? Have you had enough money to go past the Ukrainian army? Have you not had enough of those jackets that have been purchased at cloudy prices, and today our protectors are unable to get a normal winter form? And many other examples. You don't have what you've allocated, but you don't have the resources to secure the substations before winter. You don't have enough, you want more. Do you realize that you're drinking the bitch you're sitting on today? Tomorrow people will come to you for pensions, for there was heat in the apartments, there was light, there was water, there was sewage, because shit, sorry for slang, in our country today too much. This is not about the significant consequences of our activity. We're in a great hurry with you today. We're in a hurry because we're being told again that this law will provide some additional resources for our economy. Law 10016, I've talked about this before and in the last reading, in the first reading of this law, gives the Ukrainian economy zero. He gives the taxpayers and the deputies involved. He gives money to the pockets of those who break corruption; he gives it to those who earn it. But he gives nothing to the Ukrainian economy. I'm in this room from the same rostrum telling you 8401: honourable colleagues, don't vote for it, it won't put money into the economy. You pushed the green without listening to it. But I wanted to remind you all that this law, as we said, as the "Smart Politics" team put it, brought it to the budget, more faithfully, perhaps to the budget, this is Minfin's information, 4.7 billion dollars. And in the budget, the trillion budget that we have is 2.5 trillion -- it's nothing, it's just nothing. If you figure out how much business has gone down, how many people have been released from their jobs, how many enterprises have closed down, you're actually going to get a minus, not a plus to finance our economy. You wanted to take the salaries of the military, we didn't let you do it either, and we returned 30,000. Unfortunately, they're still blocked. There's no Ruslan Stefanchuk today, and I'd like to ask him, and the author of the decision has no reason why it's still not on the wall of the Supreme Council. They were in such a hurry with the oligarchs ’ law, so it had to be quickly voted against in violation of all possible laws. Two years later, where's the oligarch law? Where's the register? Maybe enough to work on the picture and the videos, maybe work for the state? Did you take it solely to block this process and not really fight the oligarchs? Are you going to say that I'm telling a lie when I'm talking about introducing antitrust legislation, the law on lobbying, increasing responsibility for corruption, and that's what's going to lead to a real fight against oligarhat. No, you voted a piece of paper that didn't give the state or the economy or the people anything, but they got into it pretty good. Now we've got from our international European partners actually all of that as a requirement that I and my colleagues in "Smart Politics." But you don't listen to it, you need it to work exclusively in the mode: put it in the face -- we work, we don't give it -- we sit, we don't do anything. You can't do that. You've been sent here to work for the state. It's not normal, so many people wrote during the review of the rights on Saturdays and on other days -- and why 20 people's deputies in the hall? Why doesn't anyone work? Why is this attitude toward laws that are adopted? You don't have to hurry, you have to have quality, you have to have a strategy that you accept, how you work, and who you work for. Stop working on yourself. We can also tell you a lot about the principle of many national deputies, in the paws of principle, in this room. Colleagues, yesterday I put a bill to the vote: to pay for the financing of the parties in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. That's how you want to fill your budget! This is how you do things to take over the local government, destroy the Ukrainian business. Well, let's stretch the belts a little bit for the Ukrainian parties. This year, more than 800 million dollars are spent on the party, and the next year, more than 800 million. For the record, the People's Party, which didn't vote for it yesterday, will get 400 million. Guys, don't you think you're going to have a little too much time? Maybe you'd better give it to the army. Eighty-nine national deputies voted in the hall. I ask everyone to take a look at yesterday's vote, who voted for it, and for whom, instead of an army, the much more important party boards, because they were very prepared for the election. I'm not going back to the election issue. Fortunately, there is a point to the fact that elections during war cannot be held. They heard again what I was talking about, and my colleagues in "Smart Politics." It's absolute propaganda, it's an attempt to usurp power, it's an attempt to turn a democratic state into a treasury. Today we see a position that this will not happen. I would very much like this position to match reality, and tomorrow no one comes out and says we're back in the history of elections. Dear colleagues, I understand that you will not vote for the amendments. I'm not going to insist on bringing people back to the hall today. They are, I hope you don't have enough votes for this law. I just really hope that your common sense and conscience in front of your constituents will win. In parallel, I'd like to put two adjustments on the table. I understand that you don't even listen to me, but still. These are allowances for an increase of 1 million dollars to one and a half million dollars per income limit, at which it is necessary to register a VAT payer. This law was passed, 1 million dollars, before the course in the Ukrainian bracelet was 25 dollars. Today we have 37 with you. Let's sort of go with logic. That's not what the IMF was talking about. Let's do something to help the Ukrainian business. This is going to be a 224. And the second amendment that I would ask you to support in the hall, that you be consistent, that you answer for your words, although for Ukrainian politics it is an exception, rather than a reality, that you should do what you said at the end of February 24, when there was an enemy under the walls of Kiev, when this room was not easy from a moral point of view, but then it was at least fair. No one knew what would happen tomorrow: neither in the hall nor in the businesses, nor in Irpen, nor in Butchi, nor in Gostomel, nor in Izuma, nor in many other cities. And then we worked, we worked for the state, and for that state we promised not to do them any harm, we would not destroy the Ukrainians. Because when you're destroying business, you're destroying jobs, you're making them go abroad looking for a better fate. Sometimes, it's not a big deal to say, it seems like it's done on purpose that there are no people left in the country who can rebuild it, rebuild it and make it work so that they can all go to Germany, to France, to Poland, to other countries of the world, not stay here. So I very much ask you to vote in favour of 531, it delays the introduction of total destruction tests for Ukrainian business until the end of the war, plus at least one year after our victory. That is what the President has promised, the leader of your political power. That's what the government promised, that's what you promised. I really hope that the mind, the common sense, the conscience in this room will win. I wanted to believe it, I think it's not just me, but the results of the vote will show that. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u3	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. We're gonna set up some adjustments then, aren't we? Two revisions: 224 and 531. Colleagues, prepare for the vote, take into account. 224, People's Deputy of Razumkov. I would like to take into account his issue of 224; the authorship of Razumkov, Babia, Saladuhi, and colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[10:39:24]] For-81 The decision is not taken. The edit remains rejected. And 531 revisions of Dmitry Alexanderovich's authorship and colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[10:39:51]] For-82 The decision is not taken. The edit remains rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u4	You'll be ashamed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u5	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. The next one is Dmitri Sergiyovich Mikisha. Where are you? You're there, aren't you? Do you want to come from the rostrum too? Please, Dmitri Sergiyovich. Five minutes, Mikisha. If you're going to make any changes, tell her the number. Okay, let's do the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u6	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Colleagues, you know, it's already another bill, which. I feel like we're taking some rematch and revenge on all those who tried to help Ukraine, Ukraine and Ukraine in the first days of full-scale invasion. Last week and last week, we saw 10038 and 10037 bills, where we took everything, almost everything, everything in the local self-government: free leftovers, extra money. Yesterday they took away military PFCs, and they also recovered funds from a road fund, most of which goes to local budgets. It is so grateful to the State for local self - government that it has not abandoned citizens in difficult times. Today we are looking at the next 10016 bill. What's in it? And it's where we get our tax checks back. For whom? For Ukrainian entrepreneurs, for Ukrainian producers, for our domestic business. These are the kind of people that in the early days of the full - scale invasion, we were able to contain this terrible invasion of Orcs. These are the people who have made the most of their involvement and assistance to ordinary citizens, and primarily the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and the territorial defenses of all that they have in order for us to reflect this invasion. Next. These people continue to work for the state, pay taxes, support the Armed Forces, support citizens, very many social projects, very many social beginnings that they continue, over 600 days goes by the heroic defense of our country from the fascist, racist invasion, and they continue to help. What does the State do? And the state says, look, tomorrow we'll come to you with tests, because you're having an easy time living, you're doing very well, then we'll come and check on you tomorrow. Let's be honest and fair, and let's say the next thing that many entrepreneurs have already said is how much should be given to some checking, certain controlling, already called these amounts. We are, of course, an interfractional MP union, "Smart Policy," all of these facts that our domestic entrepreneurs, our industrialists, our Ukrainian business, will certainly be referring to law enforcement. But, you know, it's just the position: just a registered bill, and they've already been named who, what, what, what? Is this the help of the state? Is that how we support our business? I'll remind you that in addition to paying taxes, they support the Armed Forces, they support our citizens, but most importantly, that the entire budget that is formed and invested in the army, in the security and defence sectors, is from our taxes. I'll remind you, colleagues, that most of our budget, most of our budget, is a budget for the security and defence sector, it's formed exclusively from our taxes, from taxes on our domestic business. And so, this bill, these tax checks, this control, we thank our business for their conscientiously carrying out their duties as a business, as a people as citizens of our state. I believe that this bill, as well as 10038 and 10037 and 10016 are shameful bills, should not be supported by us parliamentarians, and should be rejected in general and forgotten. We will return, yes, the tax checks will be returned, but after the war in the country is over, not before. So, colleagues, please, don't forget the people we can be here for, work for, and work for, this is where we work. And thank the U.S.S.A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u7	Thank you, Dmitri Sergiyovich. Mrs. Shpak, five minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we didn't. Alexander's Love, please. 5 minutes – Pack, then Soboljev – 10 minutes. Five, yeah. And then we go to the vote. Start inviting MPs into the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u8	Thank you. I think everyone's visiting their districts, interacting with business, and understanding the problems that exist today. We returned all the taxes, even more in terms of how they were before the war. We've got the RRO back. What are we doing now? We're returning the tests. You know, if we're talking about our tax legislation, I'd say we have to look at it completely, because the word tax one comes to mind is nightmares, nightmares, business. And by returning these tests, we're talking about tax starting to blow the business during the war, when our business is not living today anyway. When it comes to areas near the frontline, imagine how entrepreneurs survive there. If we're talking about the back we're holding, if we're talking about basic budget filling, if we're talking about developing our country's economy, this is primarily about supporting business. Without business support, the economy cannot exist. Accordingly, we must support and develop our business, direct investment to our country, give tax benefits. Rather, we do not do so. We're just killing businesses by putting them in the shadows, making them move to other countries. Because you know that there are so many proposals from neighbouring countries, please move, develop, work, raise the economy of another country. It turns out that other neighbouring countries will support our business, take money into their own budget, and at the same time we're just killing them here. First of all, we're thinking about filling out the budget, what costs are needed, but we understand, yes, today, that half of the budget is already borrowed. And what happens next year, someone's been thinking? Without business support, there will be no budget, that's clear. Every time I address you, I point out that Ukrainian business today needs support from the state, not control over its activities. Today, business is in a condition of economic turbulence and survival. The state does not even try to help. Instead, we received a return to prewar taxes. So society doesn't argue why this is happening, we all point out that these are IMF requirements. But let's be honest with each other. There is no such item, and this item has not been counted. Today, the state wants to control business by carrying out planned and non-planned checks, arguing that these are necessary revenue for the budget. But in doing so, we will only reduce the budget. By doing so, the state is only destroying our business, creating conditions for business to close, moving to another country, and turning into a shadow. We've done it over and over and over and over and over and over again. But, of course, nobody cares about the development of Ukrainian business, and it's not supported or considered. Today, many business representatives are addressing me and complaining that fiscal authorities are simply not calming down. What happens after we adopt this bill? I want to remind you that many businesses have been forced to change their location today because of the war, to move and move their manufacturing assets to other regions, in many of the disrupted logistics chains. People are forced to look for ways to buy raw materials, how to survive, where to dispose of goods. Instead, we are introducing additional tests today, as if to fill the budget. Yes, you may fill the budget once, but that's the first thing we're going to do is destroy our Ukrainian business. Tax checks by entrepreneurs should be banned today. And let's remind ourselves that at the beginning of the war, the President promised all businesses that there would be no checks, no taxes that we made. Let's do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u9	Thank you. Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please. Then the Gethmans will answer and we will continue to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I think all their decisions have already been approved by the factions as well as for themselves, and that's more for history. In my opinion, any bill that is being tabled should have financial justification and not only financial justification, but also the prospect of why it is being put forward and that it will continue to give the economy perhaps additional revenue to the budget, perhaps the closure of those working in the shadows, and that is the purpose of this bill. Sadly, that is not the case. It's already another bill that only follows one -- it's actually a roll of nuts. And if that's absolutely clear, if this were to be done in those shadowy business activities that are flourishing thanks to the people's servants, I mean, first of all, the gaming business. Where you took Russian owners with Cypriot passports, where you came up with a commission to regulate the placement of Russian citizens. So if you were to control it, but better shut it down, stop it, and make the toughest demands on strong structures to control the non-admission of it, that would be understandable. Unfortunately, today one of the biggest advertisers in Ukraine is a gaming business. And I think that's the answer to the question: where do we really have the ability to stop this, this shadow circle that allows us to go officially out of Ukraine's citizens' pockets today, billions and billions. All the time, paradoxically enough, there's one single tax that's most simply collected, simply administered and best perceived by all of our citizens, is the military assembly. If anyone has a desire in any way to understand what is most important to our army today, in my opinion, as it was in its own time adopted, is seemingly unpopular, and it was the only right decision, to introduce a military assembly and then to increase it by 1 percent, which allowed absolutely clear administration of this tax. Now what you're doing is actually trying to continue to put the administrative resource over the business resource that makes it possible for everyone to survive today. If you add a whole series of novelties that have been copied from the American tax code, namely, the minimum tax liability that has been in place in the United States since 1969, somehow our minimum tax obligations are being hit primarily in agriculture, in the small sector, not in the way that this was introduced in the United States of America and confirmed when this tax was directed against big business and middle business. If we add to this a whole set of rules that are, to some extent, a direct violation when we try to make tax changes, when business can't adapt to them, we understand where this bill leads. So if, for example, a bill, when it was taken from the military, from the police, from the local councils, it was just a translation from one pocket to another. We have forecasted how this will end, and in a year we will see if our projections have come true. Here, unfortunately, we see that, in fact, the country is being brought to a dead end by increasing taxation, the maximum pressure on small businesses and at the same time the maximum prosperity of shadow business. Therefore, in our view, this bill cannot be voted on. What was given in the first reading with badge 1, unfortunately, did not go through in this sessional room. Any changes that you make.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u11	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. And the Gethmans, the committee's response. Let's have four minutes, four people, four answers. And we'll vote, invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, we've heard a lot of accusations from the authorities about the situation today, and there's no strategy among them. I think our strategy is very clear, very clear and very transparent. By the way, those who accused her of lack of strategy somehow supported her in both the 19th and the 20th years when she was elsewhere. This strategy is Euro-Integration, in every sense of the word, and above all, it is the rule of law and the law for all. This is what we have been doing in public finances, bringing order to the outside since 2019. It's infrastructure, it's improving, improving and simplifying public services, it's an anticorre and anti-corruption reform that we're doing, not in words, but in action, it's finally opening up a negotiation procedure that was recommended yesterday by the European Commission. The mission of the European Commission. But in addition, we need to stand firm because we are in an unprecedentedly difficult situation today. And what the Minister of Finance is saying is that we have $29 billion unconfirmed next year in the budget. 29 billion dollars is what we have to get from our partners and without which it will be very and very difficult for us to go through next year, very and very difficult to meet our social obligations, commitment to teachers, to doctors, commitment to a business that. And the 5-7-9 program, which, despite the war, gives business cheap credit today. And within the limits of meeting these requirements, within the limits of getting these funds, we are subject to certain requirements, one of which is re-testing. Restoring the business checks that we stopped with you, and I was the author of this bill in March 2022, but recovery is not in its entirety, but only for those payers who have less than 50 percent and more tax burdens than the average in the field. Please tell me, Your Honor, who are you protecting? Are you protecting the underpaid? Who are you protecting them from, the army? You don't allow money to be collected from those who don't pay. You don't even give the state the opportunity to ask questions: Why do you pay less than your competitor in co-op? It's not just nonsense, it's also harmful to our mutual victory. This is what we have with you no moral right, to which we have no moral right before the army, before our society and before our children, before our future. So the bill is very simple, a bill that is really designed to meet the requirements of the International Monetary Fund, which is fully agreed with the International Monetary Fund, which is subject to the IMF programme that we are to receive with you in December of this year -- plus 5 billion for the following year -- and on which our other funding depends. I ask all those responsible, with the state's position in the Chamber, to support this bill with a green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u13	Let's go to the vote, colleagues. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill under registration number 10016-d, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other laws on the abolition of the moratorium on tax checks. Please vote. [[11:01:55]] For 231 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Show the factions, please. Next question of the agenda. Bill number 9627, draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to include investments for the rapid reconstruction of Ukraine. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[11:02:37]] For 240 Decision taken. Please, Kisilevski from the authors, right? The National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitry Davidovich, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u14	Guys, good afternoon. Dmitry Kisilevski, "Serial of the People" faction, Dnipro. Your view is on the draft Law 9627 on amending some Ukrainian legislation for the purpose of involving investments and for the purpose of speedy reconstruction of Ukraine. The aim of the bill is to simplify and accelerate the change in the purpose of the land for reconstruction, particularly for industrial and energy needs. At present, the process of changing the target earth is complex, corrupt, and extremely long - term. It takes from one to three years. When it's time to rebuild the country, we won't have time to wait three years for bureaucrats to eat. The bill proposes to use the existing simplified procedure for changing the target destination of land that you and I approved by Parliament in 2022 for remote enterprises, ports and modular towns. It is suggested that this working, good procedure be extended to a list of industrial and energy objects. The simplified procedure will work until the end of the war plus five years. This is a conditional period of restoration. And it will only be applied outside the population and only where there is no approved urban documentation and for a clearly defined list of industrial and energy objects. The reason for the change in the purpose of the land will be the conclusion of the authorized construction body, the architecture of the local council, of the possibility of placing a specific object on a specific land area. This, on the one hand, gives local self - government authorities the understanding and influence of what is to be built in this community and, on the other hand, does not give the official discretion, for this is the conclusion that the object’s requirements are in line with the specific requirements of the existing legislation. At the same time, this conclusion is a special form of building conditions and restrictions that will allow the construction project to be designed and will significantly simplify the investor’s life. Applying this approach, my friends, will clear the way for corruption to change the purpose of the earth. We're going to overcome this terrible corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u15	Thank you. From the committee. Don't you want to report it? Ah, Hayda's running. Please. From the committee head of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Hayda Alexander Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, you have before you Bill 9627, which is designed to understand the rapid construction of industrial infrastructure and energy. The bill proposes to simplify the mechanism for changing the target destination of land for the construction of industrial and energy objects, allowing this to be developed, urban documentation, for a period of war and for five years from the date of completion, as my colleague said. The National Deputies of Ukraine have noted that the proposed changes may allow short-term construction of industrial and war-damaged infrastructures, as well as an incentive to involve domestic and foreign investment in economic development. The Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, at its meeting on September 13, 23rd, supported Bill No. 9627 and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis for the drafting of regulations in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules. Colleagues, please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u17	Please sign two in, two in, and no. Saurasov, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u19	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. A year?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u20	Dear colleagues and honourable Ukrainians, the draft of Law 9627 aims to create favourable conditions for the implementation of investment projects aimed at restoring Ukraine's economy during the state of war and during the reconstruction period after the end of the war, by simplifying the process of changing the destination of land. The goal is noble, but I always say that good intentions are sometimes paved the way to hell. The way this bill has now been drafted, we cannot support it. And "European Solidarity" will be maintained during the vote. If these errors are corrected for second reading, then we will consider the issue of support. What are some of the aspects that we want to focus on right now? First, the unwarranted actions of the marked changes over five years after the end of the war. Well, why? The basis that is now is not enough. The other one. The substance of the changes to the Ukraine Code of Land, which may cause the uncontrolled construction of the lands listed above, as well as the bill may increase corruption risks in the land area, since the project does not provide a basis for changing the target of land. In addition, what further observation there is. The inadequacy of changing the target destination of land outside populated areas in the absence of urban documentation effectively deprives the inhabitants of the territorial communities of the right to determine the development of part of their territory. And this, for a moment, is a violation of the Constitution. We also need to consider the environmental risks that may arise and intensify with the adoption of this law, which may undermine our already Euro-Integrated Commitments. So today the faction of the political party "European Solidarity" will not support this bill. We'll wait for him to rework for his second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u21	"Serve of the people," Stepa.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Igor Marchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u23	Please, Igor Marchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u24	Congratulations. Dear colleagues, for our cadence, we have worked on and passed several important laws aimed at improving the investment climate in Ukraine, which is the Industrial Parks Act, which is about State support for significant investments. So Bill 9627 is another bill aimed at making the most comfortable climate for investment in Ukrainian and foreign investments. What are we talking about? This is about solving one of the key issues in the implementation of investment projects: simplifying the process of changing the target assignment, which now takes almost two years. So I ask you to support this bill, and all the questions that are still open today, we will work together and make the necessary changes to the second reading. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u25	Fatherland, please, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction has begun to hesitate. "Investment Watchers" works, we just don't have a fight from them. Give me one example of an investment nanny. One! I'm not talking about hundreds. Call that "investment nanny" she took and spent through what you say is your corrupt bureaucracy, your corrupt bureaucracy and led the project to its realization. Now we hear, it turns out, again corrupt bureaucrats are obstructing everything. Well, what else do you need!? All your strong structures, most of yours, all of yours! What happened? What about these bureaucrats who are corrupt? Maybe it's not where we're looking for an answer. Maybe that's why corrupt bureaucrats thrive that we create so-called special investment conditions that we create so-called special "investment babysitters." Perhaps the answer is much simpler. Please tell me why today, building a military facility in Ukraine is three or four months, and getting all the permits from your corrupt bureaucrats is like at least six months? Is that where you're looking for answers to questions? That's why it's a great name. In order to allow energy under these conditions, for God's sake, other burnouts have an opportunity on the land of agriculture, in fact without the consent of local councils to set up such objects, everything sounds great. It is only unfortunately that the bill leads back to the same corruption inferno. We will not vote for him in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u27	Yes, Voice. Engine, please. Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I will come perhaps from a distance. Recently, there are books published by Ukrainians, and there are people with automatic machines who come for one of the Lviv companies, which feeds people, and is active in modern Ukrainian art. Yeah, well, this company doesn't have paramilitary protection, it didn't resist, but people came with machine guns. The arrival of people with vending machines to the Ukrainian business is nothing more than an official statement from the state: entrepreneurs, you're not happy here. And it's all growing in us since the Ukrainian Socialist Republic, modernized, we can say that we have all of our relationships with entrepreneurship built on the basis of hatred for this tiny bourgeois, who doesn't know what he's doing in this country. So I'd like to tell you that this law, at least a little bit, makes the assumption that an entrepreneur's innocence into a real action where it's not worth coming to an entrepreneur with a vending machine. For the last time, people came to the Ziga Art Association with machine guns, which is currently running -- Kozak, Medvedczuk and so on. We cannot speak that language with the business of Ukraine. And this bill allows an investor to come and make a quick investment, and then we can prove it's illegal, because he's not going anywhere. You don't have to drive him out of the country with a machine gun. I urge you, Your Honor, to vote in favour of this bill in order to reduce at least the military status of the transfer of land for execution.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u29	Thank you. Mother is one minute. Please, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the importance of returning checks. But have checks been lost for the time being and during the war? No, we didn't. We have a different form, and that business is confusing, which is being tested in criminal investigations. I have also pointed out to members of the Conciliation Board that if we allow checks, it is necessary to create an authority or still commit the Attorney-General to take a closer look at exceeding the powers of those law enforcement agencies that are investigating criminal conduct, because in Ukraine we have a simplified system of reporting to the ERDF. Ladies and gentlemen, if we support this bill, it is necessary to determine with control that there are no other checks.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u31	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I am betting on the vote to adopt the proposal on the basis of the drafting of provisions in accordance with article 116, part one, of the bill on registration number 9627, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to include investments for the rapid reconstruction of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:17:31]] For 239. Decision taken. The law was passed on as a basis. Show the factions, please. Motovlover's out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u32	I'm asking you a lot of questions before we go into personnel matters, to go over two laws: 10064 on debt resolution to the Russians of our enterprise, the Star, and 9451 on extradition. I ask you to put this question to a vote, change the order of the proceedings, and move on to the consideration of two laws: 10064 and 9451. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, the Motovlover now proposes to consider two questions: 10064 and 9451. If there's no objection, I'll put the motion to the vote. Please vote. [[11:18:42]] For 299 Decision taken. Offer accepted. It's 10064 first, isn't it? Dear colleagues, let's move on to question number 10064. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of Forced Removal in Ukraine of Real Estate Objects of the Russian Federation and its Residents on clarifying the issue of payment by state enterprises of part of net profit. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. [[11:19:26]] For 283 Decision taken. The bill is included in the agenda of the day session. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[11:19:50]] For 246 Decision taken. Shall we listen to the author of Arahami? Please, David Georgiyovich Arahami of the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u34	Colleagues, this law is about correcting the mistakes we made at the beginning of the war. We then allowed the state-owned enterprises that we had obtained as a result of the confiscation of goods, directly a state-owned enterprise, or its debts, then not to pay taxes on profits from transactions that were actually forced to do. But somehow we didn't add the Star-Mashproject enterprise, which is in Nicholas, everyone knows that's where 7,000 people work. Then we confiscated the assets of the Russian Sberg Bank, and the mortgage was there, it seems, 7 or 8 turbines that they have now, if the Star can't implement them, but it has to pay some of that income tax. And then we just missed that rule, now we're adding a separate bill to fix this situation. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u35	Thank you. From the committee of Kisilevski, please represent the head of the Committee on Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Economic Development, meeting on October 5, 2023 in video conference mode, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of Forced Removal in Ukraine of Property Rights Objects of the Russian Federation and its Residents, on clarifying the issue of payment by state enterprises of the net profit (registration No. 10064), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies to the Arahamaia and other national MPs. This bill is aimed at clarifying the provisions of the Ukrainian Law, according to which the characteristics of the payment of dividends by state-owned economic sector economic associations are established, and does not cover the payment of part of the net profit by state-owned enterprises whose debt claims have been forcibly removed. In particular, a rule is proposed on how to determine a portion of net profit for the purposes of calculating dividends as part of net profit to be extended to state-owned enterprises, which in turn should prevent and prevent additional financial burdens and risks for the stable functioning of state-owned enterprises, including industries of the defence and industrial complex, while implementing the legal mechanism for the forced removal of property rights of the Russian Federation and its residents. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt Bill No. 10064 as a basis and as a whole with technical and legal rights and to consider such a proposal to the committee. Put the name of the project in the following format: "To amend Chapter II of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on the Basic Principles of Forced Exclusion in Ukraine of Property Rights Objects of the Russian Federation and its Residents" on clarifying issues of payment by state-owned enterprises of part of the net profit." Thank you for your attention. Please support this important technical bill, but it solves the important issue that we have with you. We have to fix this mistake and we have a chance to do it today. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u37	Thank you. Please write two in a row, two in a row, from factions and groups. Please, European Solidarity, Hotcharyenko. Kubi Stepan Ivanovich. Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u38	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! First of all, when such important bills are being prepared, we should have, as a matter of fact, the conclusion of the government. The other one. This draft Act provides for amendments to section 3, paragraph 3, of the Final Positions Act on Basic Principles of Forced Removal in Ukraine of Property Rights Objects of the Russian Federation and its Residents. It is proposed to amend the corresponding regulation on the net profit of state enterprises, households, statutory capital where more than 50 percent of the shares belong to the State from which dividends are calculated, or part of the net profit, decreases in income or increases in the amount of expenses incurred during the reporting period in connection with the acquisition of property items of the Russian Federation. What I'm saying is that the Ministry of Finance has made it clear that the adoption of this law has both strong and weak sides, because it was adopted in a timely manner with regard to three enterprises, the Science and Production Complex of the Star-Mashproject. The assessment of adoption activities should accordingly change the complex approach to those enterprises that move into the military state, the state of war, and the corresponding change in their activities – the strengthening of our security. And I also want to point out that the timely change in leadership that has been made, which has saved businesses, where more than 10,000 people worked, and now there are 2,000 people working, is not being used rationally. It seems to me that the human resources policy to ensure the effectiveness of activities during times of war and war should be more principled and more effective. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u39	Thank you. "Serve of the people," please, Screamer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Kisilevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u41	Please, Kisilevsky Dmitry Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, what is this bill about? There is an important industry in the south of our country in the Mikolai region that produces strategic production. It's called "Star"- "Mashproject," and it's already been talked about by both the author of the bill and other reporters. When we introduced the Russian asset confiscation mechanism, you and I, when we passed the bill, made a technical mistake that created some problems for this company. This bill deals with this problem so that this enterprise can work in the conditions in which it now works, and you can imagine how Santa's strategic enterprises work now, and what risks they are at, at least so that we don't create certain financial problems for such enterprises, which are due to the fact that technical errors have been made in the laws. So today we need to correct this mistake. So there's a proposal: on the basis of this bill as a whole, to support and enable this company to work properly at least as conditions allow. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u43	Sowsun, Voice. Rušin, please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u44	Please pass the word to the Engineer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u45	Rušin, so I said: Jaroslav Ivanovich Ruššin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u46	Thank you. Jaroslav Ruššišin, Voice. I would like to urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill. And unfortunately, for reasons of failure, we have to vote for it so that one enterprise can continue to work in Ukraine. And I was just about to talk about this. I remember, two years ago, we probably passed a bill to eliminate excise stamps on laser disks. So technological progress is moving forward, and we are simply not catching up with our legislation. But in this case, it is especially the only business. We also had Bills on Anton, a separate enterprise, and so on. So my statement is that. Let's go with our bills, the legislative regulation of economic relations, because we have problems for the future. We will soon talk about the guillotines, probably in order to correct our mistakes in regulating economic social relations. There's nothing good about this case that a democracy can do to settle these relationships. Experts, professionals, are supposed to be in charge here. So I would like to encourage us, Parliament, to gradually clean up specific economic relations, and to regulate only the most important social, economic, relations in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u47	"Paternity." Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u48	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Well, in fact, several colleagues have quite frankly admitted that this law is the result of mistakes made by Parliament during the war, and it is the result of a short, unprofessional drafting of bills. It's a technical error. Of course, I am convinced that almost a constitutional majority of parliament will correct it today and vote in favour of this law. Fatherland will vote for him. But the problem is different. In fact, we're talking about a huge business of a military-industrial complex, which has been, in fact, recently a flagman of the Ukrainian industry, and today it's actually collapsing. And in fact, today, unfortunately, there is no strategy in Ukraine for the transfer of the economy to military rails, there is no real strategy in Ukraine to do with the state-owned military-industrial complex, which, 15 years ago, Ukraine was just famous, and today it's a huge area with the breast of a metallurgy, as usual. That's why we're in Fatherland for having a strategy to build a state Ukrainian GDP. No privatization, it has to be a state monopoly. We need to be very careful with foreign investment, as is the case in the United States. Investments in the military-industrial complex are very carefully involved. So in Ukraine, we have to approve the programme, the strategy of transforming the existing state-owned Ukrainian GDP in a way that will restore the positions that we have lost since 2010, and that we will restore the positions of Ukraine that we held in the years 2005-2009 after weapons production and arms exports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u49	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Okay. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on registration number 10064 amending the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of Forced Removal in Ukraine of Property Rights Objects of the Russian Federation and its Residents on clarifying issues of payment by state-owned enterprises of a part of net profit. Please vote. [[11:32:10]] For 293 Decision taken. And there's an offer to accept it as a whole. I am voting to accept the proposal to accept, in general, with regard to the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the bill for registration number 10064, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of Forced Removal in Ukraine of Property Rights Objects of the Russian Federation and its Residents on clarifying the issue of payment by state-owned enterprises of part of the net profit. Please vote. [[11:32:56]] For-300 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The factions. David Georgievich, out of procedure or out of motive?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u50	Out of procedure, please. [[Unheard]] I propose a commission to the Committee on Legal Protection to prepare for the consideration of arms laws (5708, 5709, and 9539). 38). Prepare a commission, vote for the committee to work, and we could already vote on it in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u51	Do you want to put this to the vote? I'm betting on the vote for David Georgiyovitch of Arahamaia, as he sounded it. Please vote. It's for the stenographer. [[11:34:02]] For 273 Decision taken. The offer of Arahama is accepted. Dear colleagues, let's go to Bill 9451. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to ensure respect for the rights and freedoms of convicted Ukrainian citizens transferred to Ukraine for punishment, as well as for which the competent authority of a foreign State has decided to extradite them to Ukraine (extradition) for the purpose of bringing them to justice or execution of a sentence. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. [[11:34:50]] For 287 Decision taken. Questions are included in the agenda of the day session. Do you want to talk about it? I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[11:35:15.]] For 243 Decision taken. Two-for-two-again, let's do it then. Authors? Maslov. Please, from the committee and from the authors of Dennis Maslov. Please, three minutes. Christmas? Please, Christmas is four minutes from the authors, from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u52	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Your attention is drawn to the bill amending certain legislative acts to ensure the observance of the rights and freedoms of convicted Ukrainian citizens who have been handed over to Ukraine for punishment and for whom an extradition decision has been taken by the competent authority of a foreign State. Dear colleagues, why this bill is being initiated. It is initiated in response to the need to remedy the situation arising from the refusal by the competent authorities of other States to satisfy requests for extradition of persons to Ukraine in view of the lack of compliance with article 3 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, specifically with regard to the prohibition of torture, and the inability to guarantee security while persons are in detention facilities under military conditions. Accordingly, the bill proposes that the Ministry of Justice be empowered to approve a list of pretrial detention facilities, correctional or correctional colonies that will be kept under guard and penalized in the form of deprivation of the will of persons who will be handed over for extradition. Branches of such institutions will fully meet both the requirements of national legislation and Ukraine’s international human rights obligations. Their creation and functioning will take into account all the results of the European Committee’s visits to prevent torture or to a person or to a person who demeans dignity, conduct, or punishment. The Committee on Legal Policy considered the bill at its meeting and members of the committee understood the need to address the issue of refusal to satisfy the request for extradition to Ukraine. That's why our committee has worked out all the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, Minsk, Human Rights Commissioner. And according to members of the committee, the implementation of the bill would contribute to the requirements of national legislation and Ukraine’s international commitment to human rights for individuals who are transferred to Ukraine under extradition procedures. Therefore, taking this into account, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of a first reading, that the bill should be adopted on the basis of a reduction in the deadline for amendments and proposals. I ask my colleagues to support the committee's conclusion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u53	Mikhailuk, please, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Dennis Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u55	Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u56	Thank you, colleagues. This is really a necessary bill, because the people who are involved in the responsibility and the decision to extradite are supposed to be in Ukraine, and here our law enforcement agencies have to work with them, or they have to be punished here in Ukraine. Unfortunately, it is because of military action that some try to avoid extradition and court in Ukraine, saying what is dangerous here. Yeah, it's dangerous. But in order to do that, we empower the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to identify specific penitentiary institutions where such persons should be located. In doing so, the Ministry of Justice should verify that such conditions are safe for these persons. That is, persons are to be extradited to Ukraine and brought here to responsibility where necessary. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u57	Fatherland, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u58	Thank you, Mr. Head. Indeed, there is such a technical basis for refusing extradition — improper conditions of possession and risks associated with war. But, colleagues, that's an absolutely extra condition. Well, we all understand why they don't issue extradition. Unfortunately, Ukraine’s law enforcement authorities are unable to prepare for extradition. Of the many applications for extradition, the political motives for persecuting people are clear. It is quite obvious that they cannot properly gather the evidence to be presented in addition to the problem of extradition. That's the key problem. This problem needs to be solved: the incompetence of a law enforcement system that is unable to prepare documents for extradition in a normal manner. Of course, it's a technical story. On the other hand, if Minniest determines that certain enforcement agencies are safe, it means that everyone else is dangerous. And we thus confirm that we are unable as a nation to carry out international obligations. But again, there's something you can do to help Minniest. How can you help Minust in his extradition? And once again, people, if you don't know, I got my answer from, let's say, Interpol's Ukrainian Bureau: how many times did you go to Interpol about Yanukovic? First of all, they've spoken to each other once. Janukovich was approached once. At the same time, Interpol has clearly written that the documents you have filed bear witness to the political motives of persecution. So, unfortunately, the system works. We don't need to make technical decisions, we need to adopt legislation that will actually reform the law enforcement system, that will bring in professional people who will be able in a professional way to file extradition papers and extradite criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u59	Thank you. "European Solidarity." Hončarenko Alexyyyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u60	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. A very important bill. I invite everyone to vote because this is a very special bill for some special people. Tolik Shari, how do you feel in Barcelona? We're already preparing a law for you that you'll have a separate camera, everything will be fine, don't be afraid! Go back to Ukraine, boy! Come back! Don’t worry, your lawyers don’t have to tell you how scary you will be in Ukraine, because bombs fall there and something terrible happens in prisons. You won't be afraid, Tolik, come! It won't look like this, it won't look like Barcelona, it'll look like Barcelona, it'll look like the sea, but it'll look like it'll look like it'll look like it'll look like it'll look like it'll look like it'll look like it's in the sea, but it'll look like it'll look like it'll look like it's at home. It's important. Muraev, come where you're hiding! There's a special law for you, everything's fine. Kiwa, come! Of course, it's not the Supreme Council Hall, but you can take your hands, you can. Please come and stay in prison, and we are now adopting a special law for you. The idea that we had is diamonds, diamonds. It was a leader, one of the leaders of the Ukrainian U.S. Come here! You'll finally have an eye-to-eye meeting with Bakanov, talk to him about who took the diamonds from the mosquitoes to sell the Motherland and then run away to Serbia or anywhere. We'll prepare everything for you here. Guys, we're waiting for you all here in Ukraine. This is your home, this is your home land, you'll do something useful for society. We've all passed the laws, so please come as soon as possible. We have not forgotten you and we will find you!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u61	Can we get to the vote? Then let's go to the vote, dear fellows. Take your seats, please. "Economic" colleagues, take your seats, please. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal for an introduction. adopt a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that the rights and freedoms of convicted Ukrainian citizens transferred to Ukraine are respected for punishment, as well as for which the competent authority of the foreign State has decided to extradite them to Ukraine (extradition) for the purpose of bringing responsibility or execution of the sentence (registration number 9451). Please vote. [[11:45:31]] For 299 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. I propose to cut in half the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading. Please vote. [[11:45:56]] For 261 Decision taken. Next up, colleagues, we have personnel questions. We begin with the appointment of a member and deputy of the Advisory Group of Experts. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 208-5 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, article 10-2 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, the Supreme Council appoints one person to be part of the Consultative Group of Experts and elects its deputy. According to part of article 208-5 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering the election of an alternate member of the Advisory Group of Experts on the same procedure as a member of the Advisory Group of Experts. In accordance with part four of article 208-5 of the Supreme Council Rules, Ukraine's parliamentary factions and groups make proposals for candidates for vacancies as a member of the Advisory Group of Experts and its deputy. The parliamentary faction of the political party "Slut of the People" made a proposal regarding Kuznietsovna's nomination for the post of member of the Advisory Group of Experts and Shakun Vasil Ivanovic's candidacy as deputy member of the Advisory Group of Experts. The Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting (Protocol No. 143) considered the relevant candidates. According to part nine of article 208-5 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, you have been provided with all the necessary documents regarding candidates through SEDO. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. In accordance with part one, paragraph 2, of article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is proposed that the deliberations on the appointment and election of a member of the Consultative Group of Experts be consolidated and considered under the next procedure agreed upon by the Conciliation Council. A report from the Main Committee on Legal Policy - up to 3 minutes; statements from MPs and groups - up to 16 minutes (up to 2 minutes per speech); decision to appoint a member of the Advisory Group of Experts, decision to elect a deputy member of the Advisory Group of Experts. Colleagues, we need to approve this procedure as proposed by the Conciliation Council. So I'm putting to the vote the proposed procedure for dealing with this issue by the Conciliation Council, we need 226. Please vote for the procedure. [[11:48:16]] For 256 Thank you. Decision taken. We're going to move in the right direction. Before he starts, a colleague of Paulis asks for a word to convey the conflict of interest. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, with respect to the candidates for the Advisory Group of Experts, it's a really important question, and the Supreme Council has to have representatives there, to delegate there, because all the other bodies that were supposed to delegate have already identified their representatives. But in view of the potential conflict of interest over the fact that I have filed documents for the Constitutional Court’s competition, I will not take part in the discussion and vote on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u63	Thank you. And a bastard named Alexander Ljubovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u64	I would also like to say that, given the potential conflict of interest, I will not participate in either discussion or vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u65	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. The chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy, Maslov Denis Vejacheslavovich, is invited to speak for the report. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u66	Thank you, colleagues. You know, it wasn't in vain that the first recommendation of the European Commission was exactly a recommendation to change the procedure for election to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court. I will not place another emphasis on the importance of such an institution as the Constitutional Court. I want to thank, on the contrary, each of you, each of the national MPs. In fact, thanks to all of you, we carried out this first recommendation and changed the election procedure for the Constitutional Court judge, which was certified yesterday by a report and a decision of the European Commission, which recognized this requirement fully, and even more, they said that Ukraine had set truly transparent conditions for a competitive election to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court. All subjects have already delegated their representatives to the Advisory Group of Experts. The last subject remained, and this is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's take this step today and finally appoint both a member of the Advisory Group of Experts and his deputy, all the more so that we didn't even have any alternatives. So, in view of the discussion at our Legal Policy Committee, as noted by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, the committee was presented for consideration by Kuznietsovna Natalia Seminevna as a member of the Consultative Group of Experts. The Committee concludes that Kuznietsova Natalia Seminevna fully meets the requirements of the member of the Consultative Group of Experts. She is now a doctor of law, a professor of civil law at the National University of Kiev, Taras Shevchenk, a member of the National Academy of Law. The same procedure provides for the appointment of an alternate member of the Advisory Group of Experts. According to a decision of the Supreme Council committee, Shakun Vasil Ivanovich was nominated as a doctor of legal sciences, associate professor, professor of the National Academy of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, a member of the National Academy of Legal Sciences. We have indeed presented worthy candidates today, so I ask them to support and vote, and finally to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u67	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u68	I'd like to give Irina Heratchenko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u69	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, it is really important that the European Commission recommended the launch of formal negotiations on Ukraine's accession to the EU. And creating an independent non-party Constitutional Court is one of the seven prerequisites for this. I would like to remind you that three times the "ministers" and their groups have voted on the Constitutional Court Act to create an expert advisory group, trying to push it into their sphere of influence of the Bank. And it was "European Solidarity" that insisted that the group be composed of eight people, counsellor, and formed according to the principle of a group that elects the judges of the Anti-Corruption Court to have international independent experts present. Unfortunately, three times you blocked those votes, and only under the influence and pressure of our European partners did Brussels make the right decision. But what do we have today regarding the Constitutional Court? The "minister of the people" has been elected to the Constitutional Court, despite the requirement of its non-disclosure, apolitical nature, your representatives, Mrs. Sougiru, in violation of legislation. And now we're glad we're finally getting into the Advisory Group of Experts. But we insist on the implementation of the mandatory norm on the involvement of international, independent, professional experts who do not have these interconnected relationships, the influence of Banking's daily phone law, you know, reports in Banking's offices about what judges are supposed to be represented in the Constitutional Court, who has no right to be there. So it is very important that we meet the Copenhagen criteria, build independent, strong institutions, democracy, freedom of speech and the main court of the country -- the Constitutional Court -- was professional.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u71	Thank you. "Serve of the people," Zarisky. Maslov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u72	To be honest, unfortunately, the previous speaker cannot help but add a spoon to a barrel of honey. You know, when even the Venice Commission, the European Commission thanks in the report of the Venice Commission, in the report of the European Commission to the Ukrainian authorities, I stress -- the authorities, for a constructive position on this issue, and says that this is the right, quality absolute bill, I don't understand why come back to the rostrum on this important issue and try to manipulate it again, about three, it's like something was added there and so on. I worked with the Venice Commission for 10 months, including myself. Believe me, we also stood up for the Ukrainian position, where three national experts and three international experts, while maintaining a balance between national interests and the trust of international partners and their recommendations. And the Ukrainian authorities were welcomed by both the Venice Commission and the European Commission. If you're talking about three times as if someone was correcting something, think about the history of the Venice Commission, how many times has the Venice Commission changed the recommendations three times in their lifetime, and that bill has changed the recommendations three times? We've been following up on, let me tell you, we've been following up on additional recommendations from the Venice Commission. So please, colleagues, this is an important step. We are finalizing the process of forming an Advisory Group of Experts today and choosing the best candidates for the Constitutional Court in an open, transparent and fair competition, what could have been done since 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u73	We can move on to. Yes, Fatherland, please. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. Will anyone else be speaking, other factions and groups? "Trust"? "The Future"?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u74	No trust, no future, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u75	They're with us while we're in the hall, so let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u76	Can I have a zero?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u77	First, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, this vote is not a vote on Natalia Seminovna and Vasil Ivanovich, whom we, as a faction, respect very much. Call me colleagues, though one country of the world, which is completely independent and sovereign, where foreigners influence the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court. Call me one country in the world. Why do Ukrainians feel that they are inferior? Why can't we just, Ukrainians, without any further advice, choose six members of the Advisory Group? Why can't we do this ourselves? So we can defend Europe in the East ourselves, and we can't choose the Advisory Group. Now for the Advisory Group. I want to remind you that the first "gold," as it's called, the composition of the Constitutional Court was chosen without any advisory groups, without any advisory groups. But it was the best composition of the Constitutional Court in the history of an independent Ukraine. I think we need to stop all the authorities, this authority is not an exception, all the authorities wanted to control the Constitutional Court, many authorities expelled the judges of the Constitutional Court in an illegal way from work, then the judges were reinstated through the courts, declared the President's orders invalid, but the next authority again attacked the same rakes and again illegally dismissed the judges of the Constitutional Court. Yes, the Constitutional Court of Political Influence must be deprived. And the example that was cited with Judge Sougiraeus is a eloquent testimony that no one is going to deprive the Constitutional Court of political influence. Once again, political leaders, again among their own and so forth. So with all due respect to you, Natalia Seminovna, with all due respect to you, Vasil Ivanovich, we will not be able to support your candidacy, but rather the very approach to forming an Advisory Group of Experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u79	Colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues who are reaching out to David Georgiyovich, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part of article 208-5 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, the appointment of a person to the Advisory Group of Experts shall be carried out by the Supreme Council in two stages: first the rating vote, then the election for the appointment of a member of the Advisory Group of Experts. In the same order, there is a vote on the selection of the deputy. So let's move on to the rating vote, take your seats, please. The absence of opponents does not invalidate the rating vote. That's not what the Rules say. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part of article 208-5 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, place on the rating vote Kuznietsova Natalija Seminevna's candidacy as a member of the Consultative Group of Experts. Please vote. [[12:01:55]] For the 220. So we have a winner of the rating vote. And we're moving on to the final vote. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. In accordance with article 208-5 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, article 10-2 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act puts to the vote the proposal to appoint a member of the Advisory Group of Experts, Kuznietsov Natalija Semenovna. Please vote. [[12:02:43]] For 227 Decision taken. Welcome. The factions. Welcome, Natalia Simeonovna. In accordance with part 16 of article 208-5 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I ask the Main Committee, together with the Apparatus, to rule on the consequences of the decision you have taken. Now we move on to the election of an alternate member of the Advisory Group of Experts. I'm betting on the rating vote for Shakun Vasil Ivanovich as deputy member of the Advisory Group of Experts. Please vote. Shakun Vasil Ivanovich. [[12:03:30]] For 223 And Shakun Vasil Ivanovich won the rating vote by taking 223 votes. So let's go to the vote as a whole. In accordance with article 208-5 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules of Procedure, article 10-2 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act puts to the vote the proposal to elect a deputy member of the Advisory Group of Experts, Shakun Vasil Ivanovich. Please vote. [[12:04:11]] For 228 Decision taken. Welcome to Vasil Ivanovich. I would like to ask the Main Committee, along with the Apparatus, to rule on the consequences of our decision, honourable colleagues. Show the factions, please. Thank you. And we welcome the members of the Advisory Group of Experts. And sometimes we remind ourselves that this is also the result of our European integration, because we have made these decisions with you as part of the fulfillment of the seven promises. Dear colleagues, we continue to have personnel issues. In accordance with article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, paragraph 12, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for resolving the resignation of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. On November 8, 2023, Vadim Markovich Gutzate submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a request to accept his resignation as Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine under article 18, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. The relevant materials are given or sent to you. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[12:05:53]] For 211 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. The word is given to the minister of youth and sports of Ukraine, Vadim Markovich Gutzajte. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u80	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national deputies, for the first time in this rostrum, I have been standing here for almost four years. First of all, I want to thank our Armed Forces for defending our Ukraine, and we can now work on our jobs. I want to thank you, so much has been done for almost four years, which I have led the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Whom I worked with you, crossed over, had a lot of ideas that we put into life, and we managed to do so. I want to thank the PIC committee and the head of the PIC committee, which we have done a lot to develop the area of physical culture and sports and youth. I want to point out that in these difficult years, as much as the President's programs have been initiated and implemented, and the youth programs, for Ukraine's independence, there has not been as much work as we've done. But when a minister or a politician takes office, a countdown to his resignation begins. And unfortunately, COVID and now full-scale war has prevented us from doing what we could do more. But we've kept the sport, we've kept the sport in Ukraine. Our athletes at the World Games in Birmingham won 45 medals during the war. Our team at the third European Games took third place and won 41 medals. Our team at the 2021 Olympic Games won twice as many medals as they did at the previous Rio Games. We've been working. We met young people. We've developed programs to bring our young back. But everything still needs to go forward. I want to thank you all. I want to thank the people of Ukraine, the Armed Forces for what has been done. And finally, I want to assure you. I worked for the state, I'll work. A month ago, I had a personal meeting with the President of the International Olympic Committee, Thomas Bah. There was a productive conversation about, I called on them not to allow Russians and Belarusians, and asked them to remove the Russian Olympic Committee from the International Olympic Committee for creating councils in our occupied territories. President, he said they'd be looking into it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u81	Give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u82	And a week later, they considered this question. They removed the Russian Olympic Committee temporarily from the international movement. I want you to know that this work was with you and the people of Ukraine. And we will continue this work, and I will personally continue this work on the National Olympic Committee. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u83	Heroic glory! Thank you. The first deputy chairman of the Committee on Youth and Sports, Belenjuk Jan Vensanovic, is invited to participate in the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u84	Thank you. Honourable Chairman, Honorable Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Youth and Sports, according to the commission of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Korneyenka, reviewed the statement made by Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, Vadim Markovich Gutzajt on resignation. During the discussion, members of the committee stressed the achievements and challenges of this difficult time by the minister of youth and sports, Vadim Markovich Gutzajt, on the development of physical culture and sports and on the opposition to attempts to bring Russian athletes back to international competitions. We all know that Vadim Markovich is still president of the National Olympic Committee. I think that before the Olympic Games in Paris, it would be good to concentrate on preparing a national team for the Olympic Games. That's why I want to do it myself, and we wanted the committee to do it last night, and we wanted to do it for him. The Committee on Youth and Sport, as a result of its consideration, approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the Minister of Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Gutzajt Vadim Markovich, be appointed to resign by vote at the plenary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u85	Thank you. Please sign two in, two in, and no. Please, Venislavsky, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Grishku.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u87	A piece of cake, please. Ah, Prostuk, I'm sorry. Please, Edward Prostzek.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u88	Good day to you all. Dear Vadim Markovich. We're taking Markovich! Busy talking to our colleagues. First of all, I wanted to say that this is a good practice when we are able to see the minister not only at the beginning, when we assign him, but we have the opportunity when a person has determined that he has completed his work in this position, we have the opportunity to communicate and see. And I would like this practice to be taken over by all of our respected government officials whom we appoint. Dear Vadim Markovich, I want to thank you for your work. I want to thank you for coming to Parliament with me. I want to thank you for the success we had at the Olympic Games in Tokyo, in the third European Games, it was also very significant and very significant. Because during the war, taking the general command third place is definitely a great success. Of course, Ukrainian athletes are the beautiful ambassadors of our country, and the sports front is very important. It is very important that our athletes have the opportunity to perform in the international arena during the war, as the Hymn floats, the flag of our country rises, and this is one of the signs of what we are, of being and of being a strong and unbreakable country. So in the future, I wish you success on your new suit that you will concentrate, as the previous speaker said, on the work of the Olympic Committee. We have the next year, the Olympic year, so it's very important that our collective in all sports is represented as much as possible, we have obtained a large number of licenses, and we have presented Ukraine with dignity at the Olympic Games in Paris. So thank you for your work. Thank you for the Ukrainian sport! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u89	Heroim Slava! Thank you. "European Solidarity", Nicolac.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u90	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u91	Please, Alexeiovich. And you can do sports, can't you? Beautiful.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u92	Dear friends, we're looking at a personnel issue right now. By the way, when the minister of sports said he was the first time in four years in the Supreme Council, friends, that's not a compliment to me, to be honest. I don't know, but you and I are. Because that means the level of attitude towards us. But, my friends, I want to say something else, we are now releasing a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. You know, when a full-scale invasion began, many in the world compared President Greensky to Churchill. And it was good for Ukraine, because it's such a bright comparison, another story, how it fits reality, but what's good for the country, is good. But what did Churchill really do when he became Prime Minister just in the crucial time for the fate of Britain, in May 1940? The first thing he did was invite the leader of the opposition to become his deputy, Etley. He united the whole Parliament into a single coalition, all of them into one national team, and gave everyone a job and a job. See what happened in Israel on October 7. What did Netanyagu, Prime Minister of Israel first do? With the level of political hatred, friends, even more than we have with you. But what did Netanyagu do first? He invited the opposition to join the government and work together because it's an existential challenge for the state. Let us be honest that Hamas’s attack on Israel does not amount to an attack against Ukraine of nuclear Russia. This is absolutely, and Russia may not be able to, but it could have destroyed Ukraine. Hamas cannot destroy Israel. Yet, Netanyagu united them all. What did "our" Churchill do? No, to marginalize opposition, no unification. Let's urgently fix this, create a government of national unity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u93	Thank you. Are there other factions and groups? Then let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, from the law enforcement committee, I offer to take my place. According to article 85, part 12, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, part 1, of the first article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, raises the question of the acceptance of the resignation of the Minister of Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Gutzajt Vadim Markovich. Please vote. [[12:17:39]] For 243 Decision taken. The factions. Please make a decision on the outcome of the decision we have made with the Apparatus. And let's move on to the next issue of agenda: this is the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2024 (registration number 100000). In accordance with article 158 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the proposals of the Committee on Budgetary Questions, the following rules of procedure are proposed: a report by the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the draft budget for the year 2024, which takes into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council, within 10 minutes; a reply by the Minister of Finance to the questions of the National Deputies, within 15 minutes (1 minutes for questions and 2 minutes for answers); a report by the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from questions of the budget, within 5 minutes; an answer by the committee to questions of up to 6 minutes; statements by representatives of the MPs and groups, within 24 minutes (3 minutes for statements); statements by the National Deputies, up to 6 minutes for statements and 1 minute for questions and 2 minutes for answers if they are available). So if there's no objection, then we're on the same page. [[B in m in s a l in]] You didn't send your own opinion. No, it's not. And they are sent in writing according to the Committees Act. But if you send it quickly, we'll give you a separate opinion after all. Put it in writing, and you'll have an hour, I think. No, please send everything under the Committees Act, then we'll listen to them. Please invite us to report to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine Sergio Mihajlovich Marchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u94	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed for the draft budget of Ukraine. on Ukraine’s State Budget for 2024 until the second reading. The principles and priorities of the budget defined in the project before the first reading are preserved until the second reading. This support for the security and defence sector is priority number one, it is the social protection of Ukrainian citizens and other priorities that are preserved until second reading. I would like to point out that when the budget was further developed, macroeconomic forecasts were clarified and, given the improvement in the macroeconomic situation this year, the figures for 2024 were improved, including the increase in gross domestic product to 4.6 per cent, the decrease in consumer inflation to 9.7 per cent, was 10.8 per cent, the strengthening of the exchange rate to 40.7 per dollar, was 41.4. Budget indicators are balanced, but they are also extremely tense. You understand the situation well, the budget is balanced by external support, which is currently projected at $41 billion. We managed to reduce this dependency by $1.9 billion. We've reviewed partial income policies, we've partially reviewed borrowing policies, we're going to be more focused on the internal market. We want to be more dependent on our own resources and less dependent on external resources, taking into account the rather volatile positions that our partners have. But once again, I want to emphasize that we have the assurance that our partners will support us as long as we need them. Therefore, we too need to do what we need to do to ensure that the indicators and commitments we make are fulfilled in a timely and complete manner. In addition, we have taken into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council in the drafting of the State Budget and have foreseen a reduction in the revenue of the State Budget. This is the transfer of a reverse grant to the local budgets of 14.1 billion dollars and 4 percent of a person's income to local budgets is an additional 12.3 billion dollars. These are the arrangements, and we are very grateful for yesterday's vote on Bill 10037 on amending the Budget Code, which directs an extremely substantial resource to the security and defence sectors. At this point we are talking about 215 billion dollars. The government's revenue share has increased by 22 billion dollars and is projected at 1 trillion 768 billion dollars, including an increase in VAT from imported goods by 43 billion dollars, rents, import duties by 3.9 billion dollars, other payments. Until the second reading of the budget deficit, the budget deficit was reduced by 22 billion dollars and today it amounts to 1 trillion 571 billion dollars, which is also aligned with our main partners and with our core parameters. In clarifying the expenditure part of the budget, there are additional costs: a subsidy for health security in health facilities – 1 billion dollars; an increase in the education grant – 275 million dollars; additional expenses for the treatment of military personnel in Feofania Hospital – 200 million dollars; an increase in military prosthetic expenses – 574 million dollars; an increase in expenditure for the National Cancer Institute – 338 million dollars; additional expenditure on the disposal of solid rocket fuels – 376 million dollars; and expenditure on railway crossing points – 662 million dollars; and the cost of providing the Humanitarian Demining Centre with 50 million dollars. The State Budget project for 2024 also provides for a reduction of 409 million dollars in expenditure on the Economic Security Office. In addition, the preparation of the draft budget for the second reading at the proposals of the National Deputies and the alignment with the Ministry of Education and Science has resulted in the redistribution of funds under separate budget programmes, such as the programmes of the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the International Monetary Fund is now on its mission. There's a rather difficult discussion going on with the budget parameters, in other indicators, so all the opinions, all the expectations for today -- the consideration of the budget project for 2024 -- that's an extremely important decision. The draft budget is balanced, the draft budget is realistic, the draft budget is based on precise macroeconomic indicators, and it provides sufficient resources for us to take a different look at the situation next year, and we have the resources to address those urgent problems, especially the security and defence sectors that we now have, which we face every day. So I have expectations for your support and operational decision on the adoption of the main financial instrument for 2024. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u95	Timely answer. Thank you. Let us turn to the question to the reporter. Please sign up for the question. Please, Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, "Platform for Life and Peace."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u96	Please pass the Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u97	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u98	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to draw your attention to external borrowing and borrowing as a whole. In the draft budget, 2.2 trillion dollars is planned for us to borrow, 1.7 trillion dollars is external borrowing. I've seen Minfin's estimates and your statements that out of $41 billion 29 you don't have external funding, that's 71 percent. These are very large numbers. And given the fact that we see changes in the budget in the United States, we see positions on the European Commission of Slovakia and Hungary. In this regard: What financial revenue diversification tools will you use? Are you planning an issue operation by the National Bank? If so, will the index of consumer prices or inflation be adjusted? And will all macroeconomic projections be fully reviewed, taking into account the potential risks that the National Bank of Ukraine identifies in its inflation reports? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u99	Thank you, distinguished national MP, an important question. Of course, we are in some uncertainty about external financing. Do we have any other options? Yes, of course, because assurances in support of Ukraine and $115 billion in United States dollars and for a four-year programme were given by the G7 countries. So it's not, it's not about being dependent on one country or several countries. And at my last meeting with the finance ministers of the G7 countries, I raised the question that if one country was unable to implement its assurances, what would happen next. Other finance ministers said they would find a solution cool, systematic solution in order to close those issues that now need to be closed. And I'm more than confident that the United States administration will find a decision to support Ukraine, because, first of all, this is a grant support, we won't have to pay that back. Secondly, it's extremely critical for us, it's an indicator of support, and this signal is quite clearly understood by all other countries, including the European Union. As for the package of the European Union, negotiations are under way. We insist that for the next year the support from the European budget be the very budget of Ukraine for 18 billion euros, and they also understand and listen and hear us. So I hope we can provide. No emission funding at this stage is involved, and I hope that we can ensure macroeconomic stability and find the necessary amount of external resources, because it's really important for both inflation and other macroeconomic indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u100	Please, "Serve of the people" of Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u101	Dear Mr. Minister! Bakumov Alexander, 173rd Electoral District, Kharkiv City. That's the question I'm asking you. Amendment 1262 in the first reading by the Supreme Council of Ukraine was rejected, and I put it on the stand. And most of the colleagues in this room, dear colleagues, you and I have all rejected the amendment to reduce the funding of the National Academy of Legal Sciences by 35 million dollars. This is recorded in the transcript and decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Minister, you ignored Parliament's decision and reduced the funding of the National Academy of Legal Sciences by 35 million dollars. You did it yourself because you must have wanted it in spite of the will, the will of the people, we represent here and we express the will of the people. So I would like to explain why you did so, and how will you correct your mistake? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u102	Thank you for asking. You understand when you're tasking us to reduce the funding of an organ without the next step, how we can get out of the situation -- we can eliminate it, we can shut it down, we can shut it down, what to do with the dismissal of these workers. So we have to answer this by saying that as long as there is no clear picture of a decision in general by the body that you are proposing to completely reduce funding, the wages of the employees of the body need to pay everything equally. Because otherwise, there will be a situation where I have to come to you in January-February and ask for increased funding for this body. So we think, with all due respect to you, that if you're going to propose to cut the body's substantial salary, you have to offer what decision you're proposing. If you propose to eliminate this organ, it may also be a solution, but it must be approved again by the entire Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u103	Thank you. Voice, Vasilchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u104	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Mr. Sergei, I have three short questions for you. The first is that of our international support as a whole. Clearly, the figures presented in the budget show that we rely heavily on our international partners to help us. Are there any alternative measures, alternative measures, alternative proposals if such assistance is reduced or not in the extent to which we are now counting? That's the first question. The second question. What are the key programs for business support, for business support? And the third question. In view of the fact that military VAT will now go into the state budget, in fact, most of the communities in Ukraine will fail, in what way will communities be supported? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u105	Thank you for asking. External support. Yes, of course, if we see the risks, the probability that this support won't come in some way, we're going to ask you to make appropriate proposals for possible cuts in expenditure, increase in income or redistribution of resources, as we've already done in the relevant bill 10037. I want to remind you that the resource of this bill is 215 billion dollars, and it allows us to balance the internal resource with extremely critical expenditures of the security and defence sector. So we have a lot of options, but of course we'd like to get out of those conditions that we don't need to go to the cost reduction options, because, by large count, you understand very well that we've already reduced those costs. This year, for the first time since the beginning of the war, we've been predicting an index of teachers' wages, doctors' salaries. It's critical. Because people are actually in difficult living conditions for two years, with inflation rates of 26 percent last year, so indexation is necessary. With regard to business support. We have separate programs worth about 31 billion dollars. In particular, these are programs and interest compensations of the Enterprise Development Fund, a program called "5-7-9" – 18 billion dollars; grants – 1 billion 37 billion dollars; partial compensation for the cost of technology – a billion; industrial parks and incentives – a billion; investment projects – 3 billion; humanitarian decommissioning – 2 billion; and the development of innovation of the Fund – 1.5 billion. So there are development programs that will allow us to support business development.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u106	Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u107	Please tell Ironman.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u108	Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u109	Mr. Secretary, first of all, welcome back. It's a shame we don't have enough people in this room to hear your answer. But of the questions already asked by colleagues, whether it's good or bad, but they're related to international support in one way or another. It's a good thing all the national MPs understand how critical this is. I'd like to ask you very briefly for donations to tell the people's deputies once again where we're planning to take $41 billion for funding, and especially, what is the risk of 29 billion dollars that you have recently, if I'm not mistaken, in the Reuters interview or mentioned as the biggest risks. [[inexplicable]] If it's possible for all the national MPs to hear how critical this question is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u110	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich, for your question. In fact, considering our dependence on external assistance, there are many indicators that do not depend on us. The only thing we can do is not give us any reason to reduce this help. It's the key. Because unfortunately, sometimes there are many and even rhetorical negotiations with our key partners, it changes. And the desire and the search for the so-called excuse, I'm sorry to call it a foreign language, is often overwhelming. As far as the 29 billion is concerned, this is, in fact, the question is still pending. However, there is a clear assurance that the help will come in rhythmically and in the extent that it is needed, and that is enough for us. This is enough for the partners of the International Monetary Fund who cannot continue the program without these funds. Since the program is continuing and there is a mission at this very moment and there are active negotiations, we hope that this issue will also be closed. As for who should predict us, I have already noted. We expect $5.4 billion from the International Monetary Fund, the United States is talking about $8.5 billion next year, the European Commission is talking about, the European Union, 18 billion euros. We are also negotiating with the Government of Canada, with the Government of Norway, with the Government of Japan and with the Government of South Korea on the possibility of finding alternative sources of budget deficit financing. So the work is going on, I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u111	And now Ruššin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u112	Please pass the word to Irina Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u113	Please, Irina Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you about expenses directly to the Ministry of Defense. You're saying that they're increasing, but given the figures in the budget, we see that the spending on the Ministry of Defence is going down. What is more, you have been appropriately targeted by the appeal and the National Security Committee, referring to security and defence sector requests, the need to increase funding as a minimum of 8 times the cost of security and defence. You increase to the D.B., to the Henprocuror's office, to the B.B., to the Holding Service, to the Tax Service, and you don't increase to the Ministry of Defense. Given the increase in arms prices in the external markets, you have to understand that your 215 billion that you're trying to accumulate, and you don't know how it's going to be distributed through the PFC that you want to collect, and you don't actually give the military forces the opportunity to provide themselves in the priority directions that they are now themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u115	A very important question. And I want to make the right accent right now. Yes, indeed, the security and defence sector needs are 8-10 times higher than those budgeted. Let's just do the math. The sum of 1.7 trillion dollars is what we now have. It's much higher than the taxes we collect, it's the amount that we cover at the expense of all taxes and at the expense of borrowing. So let's say we have 17 trillion dollars, let's imagine. That means the next one. GDP, GDP at 7, well, 7.8 trillion is expected next year, 17 is the next thing we need to get another 10 trillion dollars. This is more than 100 percent of the gross domestic product. No completely cosmic, artificial, or magical way will these costs arise, and this must also be understood. They can only occur if we have a gross domestic product that grows at a rather significant and high rate. And we're ready to take every percent of growth to the security and defense sectors. But let's talk about reality. We are now targeting the defence sector with all the resources we have. Let's make sure that this resource is used effectively, by destination, and we have the corresponding result achieved on the battlefield. We're doing everything we can to do that. So I am very grateful for these suggestions. And we've been addressing this year, we've made several budget changes just to increase the security and defence sectors, we're going to need to -- we're going to be looking at these issues. But first, understand correctly when you are present.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u116	Thank you. Thank you, Sergey Mikhailovich, for the report. Thank the Minister of Finance. The report invites the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Rocsolán Andriyov Podlas. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u117	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, and respected Ukrainians who watch us in the record! In accordance with the law, I have to inform the National Deputies that in preparing the State Budget Bill for the second reading of the Cabinet of Ministers, 20 of the 21 proposals were drawn up in the form of budgetary conclusions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The principle of budgeting remains unchanged, every Ukrainian bracelet wins. The budget of 2024 is the budget of the warring country, which has one clear priority: defence. The cost of security and defence in the project is fixed at 1 trillion 690 billion dollars or 22.1 percent of GDP, as envisaged by the National Security and Defence Council. Thanks to our decision in this 10037 session hall that we have directed the military PFC to the state budget until the end of the war. 2024 is to be a sign year for internal arms production. 43 billion dollars is offered to target the production of drones and anti-drone systems, and nearly 51 billion dollars will be used to produce weapons and missiles for Ukrainian production. Both of these programs will provide a powerful stimulus to industrial production and will contribute to almost 50 percent growth in gross domestic product. The second priority of the budget is traditionally social protection. Some 470 billion dollars are offered to support Ukrainians who have come under different difficult circumstances or who have reached retirement age. The cost of supporting Ukrainian-Russian veterans will double to 15 billion dollars. Here I want to thank the Ministry of Finance and all the people's deputies who have supported the amendment to direct half a billion dollars from museums to the prosthetics of our soldiers. It's not really about money, it's about respect for people who protect us on the front. A number of important changes were made by the government and the Committee on Budget Affairs before the second reading of the draft budget. First. We spent an additional 1 billion dollars on building shelters in hospitals. The other one. We have increased the funding of the academic scholarship program by 500 million dollars so that all students who deserve a scholarship will receive it in 2024. Third. Nearly 338 million dollars were further directed to treat Ukrainians from cancer at the National Cancer Institute. Finally, an additional 200 billion dollars will be used to treat military personnel at the famous Feofania Hospital. For the second reading, the budget remains balanced and realistic. Therefore, the Committee on Budget Affairs recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt an amended bill of 10,000 on second reading and, in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals with the additions given in the letters of 4 and 8 November. Please support the State Budget for 2024. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u118	Thank you, Roxolano Andriyevno. People's deputies please sign up for a question to the head of the committee. Please, European Solidarity, Saurasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u120	Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Roxolano, unfortunately you did not come with us, although we invited you to the front line to meet with the military units. Then you would personally see how difficult it is for you today, both in Bahmut, and in audio, in the gaping direction, including the so - called counterattack. And at this time, there's a humorous counterattack in Kiev, and every day, quarter-95 comes into the Yellow Palace and all that. And you left 440 million in the budget for the 2024 project for the series, which Parliament in principle voted to send for the treatment of our military. How can that be? In Israel, the minister of informatics. The information was turned down by the Ministry, it was eliminated, and the money was transferred to the army. Why in this budget do you support 2 billion on a lying oligarchic marathon?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u122	The Committee on Budget Affairs took into account the amendment made by Vladimir Tsabball in his vote to reduce the budget for the State Agency for Cinematography to produce entertainment shows by 445 million dollars. The Ministry of Finance took this amendment into account and noted that the costs of the State Agency for Cinematography were aimed at producing documentary products: films, as well as series about the Ukrainian-Russian War. The committee supported such a proposal by the Ministry of Finance on re-profiling and changing the target of using the funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u123	"Serve of the people." Bakumov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u124	Dear Rocsolán Andriyovn, first of all, I would like to thank you for preparing the State Budget for your second reading. It's really a complicated and tectonic work that you and the committee have done. However, I would like to repeat myself because the minister of finance, to the great regret that is present today in the cabinet, did not answer my question. Perhaps the head of the committee will explain to the government, including the Ministry of Finance, how the position of Parliament, the Ukrainian Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, was ignored, which did not include amendment 1262 in the first reading. And so the project was to provide for 120 million maintenance costs, for example, for the National Academy of Legal Sciences, and for the second reading, the Ministry of Finance ignored Parliament's position, and it still took away 35 million dollars from funding. These are salaries for our scientists.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u125	The Committee on Budget Affairs here on the calculation of salaries for various budgetary institutions relies on the Ministry of Finance. The calculations they gave us about salaries at the National Academy of Sciences required additional funding. You're right to say that it's the wages and salaries of utilities, and we're on the committee aware that if wages don't pay in budgetary institutions, it will lead to the unemployment of highly qualified workers who will simply be released from the public service, from the Ukrainian science service and return to the private sector. I think it's pointless now, and we need to preserve our scientific potential for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u126	Princely Nikola Leonidovich, please, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleague, I can't see you, but I'm far away. Step aside, please. Dear colleague, you have given an incorrect answer to your colleague Heratchenko’s questions, since the funds allocated to state support for cinema are always financed by Ukrainian cinema. Instead, TV shows were financed with a different article as well. This article is the production and broadcast of television programmes for public purposes and this article is set out at 2.5 times more this year than in the past - 1 billion 510 million. And it's these sums of 196, and it's these costs that would go to support the Ukrainian army, to support the Ukrainian military, to actually promote Ukrainian gains abroad, not to produce cheap shows and to support a lying marathon, which was condemned in the conclusions of the European Commission on the recommendations of our accession to the European Union. That's what my colleague Heratchenko asked you about and I'll ask you to give it to her.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u128	Thank you for asking. I had a great understanding of the question that had been asked before, and I answered it correctly, because in the 2024 budget, serial financing was put under the State Agency for Cinematography. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's true. Open Appendix 3. And I call on any of the national MPs to open Appendix 3 of the State Budget and get to know these figures.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u129	Thank you. The time for a question to the committee head has come to an end. Thank you, Roxolano Andriyevno, for your comprehensive answers. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a three-minute statement from the MP factions and groups, please. Please, "Delivery of Ukraine", Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u130	Good afternoon, Your Honourable Chairman, Your Honor! Let's start with a positive. Finally, the Supreme Council has a strong tradition of sticking to the calendar schedule for the adoption of the State budget. It should be noted that more than 90 percent of the Supreme Council’s proposals were taken into account in whole or in other editions. Everything has been done to make the budget balanced in terms of the state of war. The area of security and defence, social expenditure and the viability of our health education are three whales of this document. Veteran politics are also being developed, and the cost of restoring our economy is being invested. At the same time, we need to be realistic, our own income today goes completely and completely into a secure direction, and the marginal deficit goes to over 1.5 trillion dollars. We thank our partners in the world for their systemic financial support during this difficult time. We expect that we will eventually be able to raise 41 billion dollars of external aid next year. Today we have to do everything we can to prevent the purposeless use of funds or the excess of public procurement in the fields, starting with the army, also by completing reconstruction projects. The fight against corruption needs to be intensified, any corruption is a national betrayal. The budget for 2024 has set such expectations – a two-step increase in the minimum wage from $6,000,700 to $8,000. The minimum cost of living for all categories is increasing, and automatic spring pension indexation will be carried out. All of this is budgeted for next year. Expenses for housing subsidies are increasing, and assistance is being saved for all internally displaced persons. This draft budget is by no means ideal; it is a document of the survival of our state under conditions of war. At the same time, we lay the foundation for further reconstruction and transformation. You can always find that you can be critical. However, we will not find a better asset in today’s conditions. The Ukrainian Liberation Group will support this budget and propose it for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u131	Thank you. "European Solidarity", Nina Petrovna Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! What are the problems of the Ukraine State Budget for 2024? First of all, this is the uncertainty of the income section. From the very first reading, we have our conclusions, and the House of Auditors, that macroprediction is based on significant assumptions. And this is very clearly demonstrated by the draft budget for the second reading, when figures changed significantly and, for example, the negative balance of trade has doubled, which has led to an increase in import VAT and import duties, as well as other indicators that, you know, have taken place in arbitrary form, you can say, these changes. In general, the word "balance" reminded me of a rubber toy. Yes, you can balance everything, just how real the numbers that are shown in this budget. Balancing means once again that the budget deficit is slightly reduced, but it's more than 1.5 trillion. And when we're talking about whether there's enough external and domestic borrowing, and when we have numbers that the finance minister has already announced, which are difficult to do, if we move these billions into the bracelet, billions of dollars in the bracelet, we can have about 1 trillion in deficit 1.5 trillion. I'm very impressed that when we talk about reducing money for an army, we're again giving some explanation that's not clear and that's not true. Because when we add money from local budgets to two other ministries, strategprom and DSTZI, we reduce it to the Ministry of Defense itself. But remember, we have an increase in the number of troops, we're talking about an increase in the amount of money. We've passed a series of laws on the return of thirty and other payments, so how can we reduce literally the real amount compared to 2023. The fact that the increase in the security authorities rather than the financing of the U.S.S.A. is listed. And these are the specific figures that are in the state budget. It seems to me that if we now had the opportunity to analyze all the articles in the textual part of the state budget, you have to concentrate that according to article 45 of the state budget, it's, you know, revenge on local self-government, it's a hook from which the unruly can't jump. And when the Ministry of Finance prescribed this article, I think, well, you should not lie to society.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u133	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear Alexander Sergiyyovich, distinguished colleagues, our group will support the 24th year's military budget as unalterable. Period. Next, look, about the macroeconomic and monetary architecture that was partially altered. But those fragmented changes that have been made, they don't globally solve the financial and budgetary collapse that we have in the country. The first and most important moment is the two key figures of the state budget. The first number is that at expenditure of 3.3 trillion dollars, you have borrowed 2.2 trillion dollars. 67 percent of the budget is covered by borrowing costs. These are the two key figures that characterize this state budget. 1.7 trillion dollars is a military budget, of course it's obvious things, and that's why this figure is supported. Next, look at the cost side, Appendix 2. 627 billion dollars to repay the state and state-guaranteed debt. For service in Appendix 3 to 420 billion dollars. So over 1 trillion dollars we're giving up to service and repay government debt. That's why the government's actions to restructure government payments from government debt are so important, we have nowhere to spend this money. Next. I cannot overlook the specific aspects of fiscal and tax policy: deposit certificates, non-taxation of VAT, non-limitation of minimum wages. Not the minimum, more precisely, but the excess, VIP salaries to members of the Supervisory Boards. All of this remains, and I think he's going to have to be destroyed. Next. There remains a critical low level of minimum pension in Ukraine. Even if we take a new dollar rate of $38, 60 dollars, that's $61. We had $119 in 2013, 10 years ago. Retirement rates are twice as high in the dollar equivalent of the corresponding purchasing capacity of pensioners. This also needs to be levelled and drawn to the minimum wage. And then what I want to say is, of course, you need a new adaptive macroeconomic and monetary model to solve and address the problem of reducing the budget deficit, which is 1.6 trillion dollars. In the context of a stagfing debt crisis, it is vital to take into account and make changes to this draft State Budget Act in 2024 and to take into account the risks that Nazbank is talking about. That's the first one. Decreasing foreign exchange revenues from exports as a result of the embargo on the part of the countries of the European Union. The other one. This is a rise in energy prices. And then the important point is not getting any more loans, and I asked that question, and so on. So then an integrated macroeconomic and monetary model, it's going to be competitive, it's going to be a budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u135	"Paternity." Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u136	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Your Honor, the chairman, the presidency, the distinguished national deputies! This is a project of a second budget in a large-scale aggression. And the first sum of expenses is, of course, the defense sector. The second is social policy. And I'd like to stop at the social cost that, for justice's sake, went up by 25 billion. But when we analyze it, there is really something to think about. $2,000 920 is a living minimum. I'd like to ask the Minfin leadership, on the basis of which they formed such a figure, by the way, which depends on a few dozen other payments. How can you live on the sum of 2 000 920 dollars? And the minimum pension is going to go up to 300 with a penny. This is actually a problem, even understanding the conditions of widespread aggression. Next up, buddy. By the way, thanks to Kucherenka, the faction colleagues who gave me the word, we discussed local budgets with him. Yesterday they took or removed the funds from October of the month. It's also nonsense when the law doesn't have reverse power. But how money could be removed today is still required to ensure that local budgets can continue to maintain critical infrastructure, water ducts, other items that have become practically wasteful, and that the budget does not have a penny to cover the differences in tariffs that are rising. There is a clear question in this regard. Next. Dear colleagues, when we talk about the 57 billion budget, the cost of the internally displaced, is that much or little? Of course, there is no understanding when these people return to their homes and lose the status of internally displaced persons, so these costs will have to be added over the course of the year, clarifying the budget. And to the end. They said here how many of us are still having debt cancellation or debt servicing problems. Does the Ministry of Finance have a discussion with the IMF about restructuring and debt cancellation in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u137	Thank you. "Serve of the people," please, the Venislav Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u138	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Today we are adopting a very important document that will allow our nation, which is in a state of defensive full-scale war against the aggressor country, to live next year. Is it a good budget, can it be called balanced, and are there no questions? I think that under the terms of peace time, every national MP present in this room would have a lot of questions about the costs of this government budget, first of all. But we all need to be aware of what is really this budget, the second that Ukraine accepts in a state of full-scale war. And, of course, priority number one, which sounded out of the mouth of almost all those who spoke out of this rostrum regardless of party membership, is the security and defence sector. As a representative of the Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence, I am very pleased that really huge money is allocated to security and defence. The question is, Is it enough money to provide our Armed Forces and other components of the security and defence sector with all the necessary? Of course, that money is not enough. And some speculations that, unfortunately, occur periodically from this rostrum, as to whether the Supreme Council did correctly yesterday, voted in favour of Law 10037 on the redistribution of PFCs from local budgets to state budgets, whether there is a violation of the Constitution and whether there is a major public interest in this. Unfortunately, there are so many manipulations and very many unfounded accusations that yesterday the Supreme Council allegedly violated the requirements of the Constitution. I want to remind you that only the law establishes a state budget and a budgetary system. So yesterday the Supreme Council, in full compliance with its authority, redistributed the relevant funds of the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine and the Budget Code to security and defence. And any attempt to block this initiative of the Supreme Council, in my opinion, is to the detriment of the interests of national security and the defence of the state, which is why we are actually taking this budget first. The second component of this budget is social policy, social support and those who need it, primarily internally displaced persons, the elderly. So this budget is better than what we could have done in terms of war, it is certainly not enough to adequately resist the aggressor. And I want to remind everyone that Russia has set unprecedented security and defence costs next year, which unfortunately exceed our budget. So we have to vote in terms of security and defence of our nation, and I am convinced that this budget should be supported by a maximum number of votes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u139	Heroic glory! "For the Future," Taras Ivanovich Batenko. Please. And we'll go through. And then, "Trust" comes from the National Deputies. Colleagues, in about 15 minutes, will be voting, so please inform your colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, as we study the 2024 draft budget, we see that this is one of the most difficult budgets we've ever held in our hands. Obviously, we understand that we are facing one of the most difficult financial years of independence due to the fact that we are still at war, the third year of full-scale invasion. And this is the third budget, where a huge base of dependence on external lending revenue. So we're actually accepting the budget in terms of credit default uncertainty and instability. And obviously, I think that even if we accept it, we don't end the discussion on budget and budgetary policy, maybe we'll have to look at it again and again next year. We've been trying to find positive things in the budget, it's certainly been able to find an opportunity to restore in the next year the minimum wage and subsistence minimum, to increase the amount of money that will be spent on subsidies to citizens, to pay for housing services. Of course, the issue of the PDF that we sent yesterday, the military PDF for the production and centralized acquisition of drones, military equipment and weapons, are the positive things that are contained in the budget, even though they are ambiguously perceived in society to the end in relation to the military PFC. Of course, we welcome the second reading of the program of support for security in educational institutions, health institutions, and programs for providing Ukrainian citizens with prosthetics, which is extremely important, very important in the face of full-scale aggression against our country and so on. Although we clearly realize that the measures that are aimed at veteran politics are not sufficient, so is the country that is. where the number of veterans is increasing, it is likely that they will need more funding to support them. But the most obvious concern is that we probably don't fully understand what kind of external dependence we're going into with this budget. Because by reducing our dependence on external borrowing by 1.9 billion, we're still going to have a huge hole in external funding because we don't know how much will be funded by the United States Congress, which will be the final amount, the direct loan figure for the country's state budget, which is already budgeted by the State budget, and which is already invested in this State budget. That's why we're voting in favour, but I don't think we're closing the budget discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u141	Thank you. And Paul Andriovich Bakunec, please, "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u142	Dear Sire, distinguished nationals, dear Ukrainian people! Dear Ukrainian soldiers, dear protectors and protectors, it is only because of your courageous hearts that we have the opportunity to look at and accept some plans for our country's life next year. So thank you very much for that. When considering and planning a budget, it is clear that there will never be contentment in all areas, for there will always be a shortage in all areas. However, when it comes to the adoption of the budget plan for the following year, there are two things that need to be discussed: the money coming will come in next year, and the expenditure. And as for the arrivals, clearly what is needed here, from this rostrum, is to address our international partners with thanks for their support in this, last year, with a request for financial support in the next fiscal year, because it is very important for all social benefits in our country. Also, we should thank those Ukrainians who remain, who are officially working in Ukraine, who are officially paying taxes, despite the fact that the Supreme Council is providing them with additional checks, although it may not be easy to earn these costs today, but there is a tax base that allows us to support our Ukrainian brave army. And of course, what we have to say here about revenue is that revenue is both in government and in local budgets. And clearly, once again, I want to emphasize that taking all the revenues from the military PFCs from the local budgets was a completely wrong decision. And that's why I want to believe that by providing a Ukrainian soldier with weapons, we're not going to let the local education, the local culture go down. And today, on the day of culture, of Ukrainian culture, I sincerely welcome all the workers in this important sector, for which we are actually winning. And so what I'm saying is that the authorities of local self-government aren't forgotten by the Cabinet of Ministers, by you, and we're allowed to go through the basic level with them. the communities next year, then what we can do to help the Ukrainian soldier wait together for this desired day of victory with faith in God, in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, in men and in victory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u143	The hero of glory, Paul Andriyovich. Thank you. Let us move on to the speeches made by the national deputies. I'd like you to sign up for the national MPs in six minutes. Please, alien Natalia Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u144	Please give me the word of Murmitch Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u145	Please, Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, "Ukrainian Remembrance."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, we have heard performances today both from the groups, both from the Ministry, and from the committee. Of course, this draft budget that we are going to vote on today has a lot of flaws, of course. I won't count them all, but this budget doesn't even have the money to recover the damage that the Russian aggression has caused to Ukraine for the next year. There was still a trust fund this year, where there was no specific funding under this programme, in the next one. But it's also a non-essential flaw, the main disadvantage is that there's a 42 billion-dollar hole. That's why we understand it's a war, and, for God's sake, all our leaders shut this hole and find the money. We'll back up, vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u147	Thank you. Bragar Eugene Vadimovich, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u148	Bragar Eugenius, please pass the word to Paul Susch.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u149	Paul Susko, please. Paul Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u150	Congratulations, dear colleagues. I'd like to say that in this budget, we didn't have the money to rehabilitate children with disabilities, and that's very bad. Insufficient funds are put into rehabilitation, and the Court of Auditors is today publishing a report on the use of funds for rehabilitating, prosthetics that have been used with the violation and so on. We need to study this report carefully, how the funds are used, Minsocam’s funds. And in general, to make this budget, you have to take a little walk around the community and communicate with people. I am very grateful to the Prime Minister, who responded to the appeal of the MPs, and a decision was made yesterday in the government to increase the solid fuel subsidy, because the people's pension today is 2.5 thousand, and the wood is standing in the winter of 36,000. So we've increased more than two and a half times, and that's very good. But I would like to give you this example, colleagues, that we are very often reproached in the community, that you have appointed officials, and today you have no influence on them. I want to give you an example of Mr. Bolochovt, who is in charge, the head of the forestry Ukraine. People say, well, we have a small pension, but please tell me, why the forest, the trunk, is rolling in the woods, it rots, it rots, it rots for who it's lying for. They'd be handing out food to people like supermarkets right at the start of a full-scale invasion. It was distributed so that people would not starve to death. And today, people don't have the ability to take this dryness that's rolling. And you know what the Bologna says? He says it's for beetles and spiders that this forest is rolling, it's rotting there. And he says it's the only parliament that hasn't done anything. So here, colleagues, at a time when the European Commission says that this Parliament has really worked very well, the chief ranger blames us for not doing anything for the people. And I'll tell you what we did. First, we turned to the government, and the government responded. Subsidies are the real result of us with you, colleagues, doubled, almost twice as much as twice. So I also want to turn to the government, taking advantage of the opportunity. To work with Mr. Bolochovec so that he, as the chief steakholder of these trees, would do something to keep them from rotting in the woods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u151	Hončarenko Alexiyyovich, European Solidarity. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, we are considering the country's main economic law for the following year. In many years of parliamentary tradition, the Prime Minister has always been here. Where is he now? Perhaps we already have a new Prime Minister and this is Mrs. Rocksolana Podlas? In fact, this is a testimony to the attitude of Parliament, the Kabmin, who gave absolutely no budget to the warring country. Because if there's an increase in the funding of the prosecutor's office and other power structures, I want to remind you not that prosecutors are going to counterattack. Because if there's a serial counterattack, a marathon counterattack that you're allocating 440 million, 2 billion, to the Council channel again 200 million, that doesn't show Parliament and that's where Medvedchuk leads. You have absolutely infamous articles about decentralization, which not only corresponds to the budget of the warring country, but also to the budget of the country that goes to the European Union, because the EU is a strong region. You've got about 60 billion money there, it's walking costs, it's not confirmed because you've already put money from the military PDF into this project, even though the bill hasn't been adopted yet, it hasn't been fixed. This is a violation of the Constitution. And believe that we will appeal to the Constitutional Court about how you are destroying decentralization by spitting on our commitment to join the EU. You destroy our commitment under the Copenhagen criteria when you put money on oligarchy channels. If Brussels has made it very clear to you: Fight the oligarchs, not feed them from your hand. You pay taxes, including military taxes, to whom are the oligarchy channels. You put billions back on investment babysitters instead of creating even rules for the whole business, and that's after you return business checks. So, of course, we're going to stick to this budget project, of course we're going to monitor how you spend these costs. And you know, when you go to the West asking for financial assistance to Ukraine, you hear the answer very fair, and what happens to the economy, why didn't you build an economy on military routes in 20 months? Why haven't you created these enterprises today that are supposed to produce shells? Why don't you put money on fortification buildings and minefields near the collision line? Many times, but the answer is, the government isn't here, the finance minister is taking pictures with the girls. Everyone has fun, everybody, you know, cultural counterattacks at a time when we have to discuss the real problems in the economy and create a government of national unity, professionals and technocrats that will answer the problems in the economy that you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u153	Thank you. Please refrain from sexism in the session room. I don't think it's important to the sex with whom the minister of finance was photographed. Dear colleagues, we have a separate opinion from Deputy Honcharenko. We're going to give him two minutes to express this particular thought. But I would like to point out, Alexei Alexiyovich, that the next time you send a single opinion in advance, because we have it along with the committee's decision to give it to the deputies. Otherwise, if you don't send it, we can't let you speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u154	Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm speaking now as a member of the budget committee with a separate mind. When you think about it, that's good, and when it's separate from that budget, that's good twice, my friends. Because in fact, at a time when the state is facing such trials, we have a very strange draft budget. What should be Ukraine’s budget? It must be very simple. There's got to be an army, there's got to be social support for those who need it to survive, and that's all there is to it. The army, a social worker, took a risk. There's nothing there. What do we see, do we have an increase in the expenditure of specific so - called so - called so - called ones? No, we leave 860 dollars for the baby. What do we have? And we have billions of dollars in industrial parks in investment. Let's give real moms money, not some mythical "investment." Let's do something real. Let's move on. Is there money for us to increase the funding of the Mini-Defense? No, Mini-Defense is minus 6 percent. Minus, minus 6 percent is the Mini-Defense. What about the plus? And plus, of course, we've got the telophone again. Right, I understand that when the Orcs move on, we'll turn on their TV over there from the trench to see if they'll stop when they see this propaganda from the President's Office, and then, I understand, everyone will. Maybe we'll give them, you know, out of the trench, give them the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, because we're adding money to it. We're probably going to turn on the 95-block series, because we're also giving them money. Here, friends, what we give and what is our priority. This is a disgrace, not a budget!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u155	Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, there will be several votes, so please be careful. Let's move on to the decision-making process, we're done here. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 158 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting for a second reading, taking into account the Committee’s conclusion on budgetary matters, on the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act of 2024 (Registration No. 10000). Please vote. [[13:29:30.]] For 274 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 4, of the first part of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 158 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of Procedure puts to the vote for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's conclusion on budgetary matters, the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act of 2024. [[B in m in s a l in]] Study the Rules, please, who has just offered to discuss them. Thank you. Budget Committee Draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2024 (Registration No. 10000) Please vote. [[13:30:26]] For 276 Decision taken. Ukraine’s State Budget Act of 2024 was adopted. [[Applause]] Thank you to the Committee of Budgets and the Ministry of Finance for your work. Show the factions, please. There was a break with a replacement for the performance. Pippa Natalia Romanovna, please Voice and Future. Let's keep moving.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u156	Everyone who has been to Lviv has seen and knows the Mount of St. It is known that for Lviv it is the heart of Lviv, the heart of which was 43 years of prayer to Andrei Sheptick. Andrey Shepticki, who directly influenced the spirit of the Ukrainian state that we have today. We know how strong it was, the wise statesman and the church official, how much he invested in the construction of the then state. We know he's being tortured by the same enemy that's been torturing us right now. For each Levian and every Ukrainian, it is of great value that the Mount of St. And what do we have today? When the same ones who killed us today and then under Soviet authority came in, they set up the altitude that the radio was jamming and, in particular, the frequency of Radio Liberty. Appropriately, in the 1980s, the Mount of St. George is in UNESCO. Accordingly, in 1998-2000, UNESCO was obliged to remove this surplus. In 2017, the Lviv City Council handed over the Metropolitan Gardens to the church that they originally belonged to. These gardens were built even before Atanasius the Sheptite in 1740. Today, Easter is being judged, and the court of first instance has already won in late September to get these lands back. What the Crusade plans to do on the Mount of Sicily is a variety of rumors — whether it's a cottage or other plans. But the main question is, why is it specifically this, important to the city, and the main one is the land that was always owned by the church? So we call upon all those involved, and the Crusades, to take stock of this situation, and basically, I am as a person representing Lviv and the Levians in the Supreme Council, so that the citizens have the Mount of St. George as a place to pray and to look at Lviv. So I ask everyone to unite around this, and historical justice must be restored once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 7 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are approved by the Supreme Council at the time of the adoption of the draft State Budget Act for the following year. In this regard, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has registered a corresponding draft of Decree Number 10222 on the Trust Fund of the Supreme Council for 2024. You were given it along with the conclusions of the Rules and Budget Committees. Dear colleagues, are we not being discussed? Then write it down, then let's do the procedure. I would like to put the question to the vote on this issue by means of a reduced procedure. [[13:34:44]] For 239. Decision taken. Please sign up: two in, two in. Dear colleagues, there's an offer after the fundraiser to vote on the President's requests, so please don't disagree. There's seven of them literally asking the heroes to do it. Maxim Arkadyovich Bujansky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u159	Thank you for your flexibility. Please, "European Solidarity" Heroshenko, Friz who? Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u160	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Now, my friends, we're taking on the High Council's funding. And again, you know, we have a lot of money there, as it turns out. First of all, we have 10 million dollars for the international deployment of the Supreme Council. My friends, once again, they don't let MPs go to work here, but it turns out that someone's not letting go, and they're giving money away. That's an interesting article. Here's another article. An increase in spending on the Voice of Ukraine. What's that? Why is that? What is the need for this? It's "Radha" TV. And without him, of course. By the way, I'm on the radio. When I'm walking on the towers, and I'm sitting there on the "Rady" TV camera, I think I'm invisible. Because they're somehow. You're coming and no one sees you. He sees the "Corada" channel, except for a couple of factions. Maybe you can rename it as a "faction of the "minister of the people" Council or something like that, it's probably more honest, and we'll call it our names. So in the fundraiser of the Supreme Council, there's money for international shipping, there's a Voice of Ukraine, there's a Radio Channel, all the same priorities. Guys, is that right? Is that what our treasure is supposed to be? Today, all we can do is give it to the army. And there's not supposed to be a " Rada" channel. You know, it's free to broadcast from any smartphone of our session, and on the "Council" channel, Ukrainian citizens will give almost 200 million dollars for it. Explain to me what? Let's put 200 million dollars on the drones. Let's put 200 million dollars on the antidrone. Let's give it all to those who do what the Council does, and not to that scaffold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u161	Let's move on to making a decision. Are there no more? Okay. I'm betting on a vote for the entire draft Registration Order 10222: on the cost of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2024. Please vote. [[13:38:19]] For 263 Decision taken. The decree was passed in general. Please, Olena Kostvena, about the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u162	The honourable colleagues, therefore, made 50 parliamentary inquiries for the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of these: to the President of Ukraine – 6; to the Supreme Council bodies – 5; to the Cabinet of Ministers – 19; to the heads of other public authorities – 18; to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of property – 2. So please prepare for the vote. We will first vote with you the questions to the President of Ukraine. I would like to vote on the proposal for previous support of the MP's request to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the honorary title of "Deserved Doctor of Ukraine" Rybaku Vasil Anatoliyovich. This is a request from Alexander Gorenyuk. Please vote. [[13:39:40]] For 239. Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:40:03]] For 237 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal of a group of national deputies (Marusek, Tsimbaluka, and others). A total of 13 deputies), a proposal to advance the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine (after death) to the military officer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Kushik Volodymir Tarasovich. Please vote. [[13:40:46]] For 252 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:41:10]] For 254 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal of a group of national deputies (Gerega, Mazuras and others). A total of 9 deputies), a proposal to support a preliminary request to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine (after death) to the military officer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Mariszczak Maximo Volodymirovich. Please, let's vote. [[13:41:53]] For 246 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:42:16]] For 247 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal of National Deputy Sergei Nagorniak to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the title Hero of Ukraine (after death) to the commander of the department, the commander of the engineering company of the engineering company at A2167 to senior soldier Rybokon Anatoly Igorovich. Please vote. [[13:43:01]] For 247 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:43:23]] For 244 Decision taken. I am voting for a proposal for previous support of the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine, Tetjana Grishchenko, for the award of the Order "For Courage" by Biduk Vitalija Anatoliyovich, Pearce of Eduardo Viktorovich (Death), Nikolayev Anton Juriovich (Death). Please vote. [[13:43:59]] For 240 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. [[13:44:21]] For 236 Decision taken. I am voting for a proposal to support a preliminary request to the President of Ukraine by Sergey Rudik for initiating negotiations with groups of official creditors of Ukraine to cancel part of Ukraine's government debt. Please vote. [[13:44:53]] For 178. Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:45:15]] For-152. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, these are all requests to the President of Ukraine, and I will continue to read your requests. Please, just be quiet. So it's the questions of the national MPs. Bogdan Torokhti to the minister of agrarian politics and food for Ukraine regarding the distribution of duties between the minister of agrarian politics and food for Ukraine and the deputy minister. Bogdan Torokhti to the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the question of the registration of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, the number of wages and other financial incentives and payments. Bogdan Torokhti to the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the financial results of enterprises located in the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine. Bogdan Torokhti to the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on specific issues of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine. Bogdan Torokhti to the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Jonah, and others) A total of 12 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on the promotion of Ukraine's defence and industrial complex in military conditions since September 21, 2023, No.3388-IX, and the removal of obstacles to the economic activity of the State-owned Kyiv Construction Office of Luc. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for providing information on the scope of the tourist congregation paid in the territory of the Umman City District Society of the Cherkas region during January-June 2023. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to remove obstacles to the conduct of legitimate commercial activities of the industrial group "Pushmašina" and other companies that carry out supply of defence supplies under military conditions. Alexia Mouchcan to Kharkiv City Head, Director General of the Harkow Metropolitan Municipal Enterprise, on the use of measures to eliminate discriminatory and disqualifying terms of the tender documentation. Anton Yatzenka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the non-implementation of the Umań region of Cherkas region, which is not allowed under military conditions, using one of the farming entities of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, whose purpose is to obtain illegal wealth. Peter Pavlovsky to Kharkiv City Head about providing information on the number of apartment buildings managed by the municipal enterprises of the city of Kharkiv in need of roof repair. Peter Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on technical and economic justifications for the construction of paid roads in Ukraine and other matters. Groups of National Deputies (Lukasheva, Kovalova, Gnatenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning the granting of state-of-the-art benefits and the provision of services related to the exchange of passports between Ukrainian citizens and internally displaced persons. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Foreign Service of Ukraine for the provision of official information on reasons for non-admission to Ukraine for participation in the meeting of the Council of the European Union for Foreign Affairs (October 2, 2023) Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Sweden Tobias Bilström. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Jonah, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, acting as Director of the State Enterprise Parliamentary Television Council on the use of measures to protect inclusive values in the information space of Ukraine and to prevent discrimination in television broadcasts of "The One News". Alexander Feldman to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Coordination Headquarters for the Treatment of Prisoners of War, on providing information to members of the armed forces. Dmitra Razumkova to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legal basis and the facts of the formation of the service missions of the Ukrainian National Deputies since September 1st, 23rd. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the promotion of the mother's right as a deceased military officer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Gurniak Oksana Dmitrovna, to receive one-time financial assistance. Alexander Tkachenka and Antonina Slavicka to the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the financial and economic controls carried out. Alexander Tkachenka to the Attorney General for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Groups of National Deputies (Geregies, Magomedov and others) A total of 9 deputies) to the Head of the Coordination Headquarters on the treatment of prisoners of war with regard to the establishment of a place of residence, health and return to the home of the 24th individual mechanized brigade. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Jonah, and others) A total of 13 deputies) to the Human Rights Council-designate on the promotion of the rights of Colonel Červinsky Roman Grigorovich of the Ukrainian Security Service to access medical care, family visits and inspection of his conditions of detention together with the Ukrainian National Deputies. Groups of National Deputies (Fraz, Heratschenko and others, only 7 deputies) to the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to provide information on the command of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to collect and process data on the party membership of the U.S.S. military. Groups of National Deputies (Fraz, Heratschenko and others, only 7 deputies) to the Commander of the Army of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for information on the deployment of the U.S. Army Army Command for the gathering and processing of data on the party membership of U.S.S. military personnel. Alexander Tkachenka and Antonina Slavicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the use of effective measures to carry out financial control. Sergija Vlasenka to the Acting Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for the provision of copies of the working days of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Georgia Mazurashu to the head of the Kiev City Public Administration on the issues raised by the lifting of the declaration of readiness for the operation of the object at: M. Kyiv, ul. Liskivska 23. Valery Gnatenka and Vladimir Moroz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of the work of health workers in the occupied areas of Ukraine. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for providing a copy of the documents concerning the free transfer of nonresidential buildings from municipal property to state property. Anton Yatzenka to Kiev City Head, Director of the Pecher Automobile Company, on the provision of information and copies of documents relating to land and property at: Military Passage, 8, Pechersky District, Kiev, 01103. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for the provision of information and copies of documents on residential properties (residential and nonresidential accommodations) at the site of John Boden’s alley, house 7a, and street of Vygowski, house, 35 Umani, district of Umani, district of Uman, region of Cherkas, 20300. Anton Yatzenka, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence, and Intelligence for the Inadmissibility of Implementation in the City of Umań of the Cherkas Region, which is inadmissible in terms of military condition of equipment, uses one of the management of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, whose purpose is to misconceive budgetary resources in a particularly large way. Anton Yatzenk to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine, Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, for the provision of information on military-bound citizens of municipal enterprises, institutions and organizations of the Uman City Council, its structural units (offices and offices) that are banned for the period of mobilization and time of war. Sergei Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on initiating negotiations with groups of official creditors of Ukraine to cancel part of Ukraine's government debt. Groups of National Deputies (Ephimova, Kovalova, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to extend the eOsela programme to families with three or more children. Vladimir Moroz to the head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine to provide information on heating, hot water and natural gas prices for the population. These are all MP's questions. Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, you can call it a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u164	We still have an application for a break with a replacement for "Slut" and "Trust." Gunboat Arseniy Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, during the days we have opened the second building for the reconstruction of Žitomirščina for cofinancing with the Republic of Estonia. And it was destroyed by a Russian rocket in March 2022 by cities in Malin across the Irsha River. And actually today we see in Zitomirsk how effectively and productively the formula of President Vladimir Zelensky is being implemented when the country is in charge of a particular region or city. We have examples today: Denmark – Mikolayev, Latvia – Montenegro, Czech Republic – Dnipropetrovšina. And these are actually examples of how our partners today are helping to rebuild our state. In fact, after the opening of the bridge between the head of the district under the leadership of the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Alexander Korneyenka, and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia, Margus Tsachkne, a meeting took place during which a list of the following objects was handed over before the reconstruction of Žitomirščina in 2024. I would like to point out that the budget for the following year is 30 million in Estonia to assist and support Ukraine, particularly the Zitomir region, without military assistance. Today, it is important to have strong partners with us, such as the Republic of Estonia, who support Ukraine and provide concrete examples for specific regions. I want to point out that the first object of the reconstruction of Ukraine was a kindergarten in the town of Ovræ in a border town with Belarus. And already in December, the second turn of this kindergarten will be opened, where 160 children will generally walk, and this is the first object to restore Ukraine at foreign expense, where we have a partner, and where almost 6 million euros are invested. I would like to point out that on November 22nd, there will be a friction forum for the restoration of Žitomirščina and, in fact, in Lisbon and Portugal, this is the second country to join Estonia today and, together with Estonia, will help restore Žitomirščina, which is specifically 25 people who were destroyed in the city of Žitomir in March 2022. Today, we are working on the involvement of other nations, working on new objects, so that as far as possible, our partners, our friends can restore life and restore Ukraine. Because today our budget is the military's priority, it's the military's help, and it's our victory. That's why we're working with partners today on the 2035 Animal Action Strategy in order to have a comprehensive recovery not only of infrastructure, but of the economy of Žitomirščina. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-09-m0.u166	At the suggestion of Alexander Bakumov, we move on to the next point. The agenda item for today has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. Together to victory. Glory to Ukraine!
