ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today, we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I point out that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to parliamentary tradition, we will begin our work with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 17th month of decisive opposition to Ukraine to widespread Russian aggression lasts. Thanks to the steadfastness, the strength of the spirit and the self-loathing of our defenders and protectors, we have the opportunity to observe the flourishing beauty of our Fatherland, to work to rebuild free, independent, European Ukraine. Yet, sadly, war takes away the best compatriots — indescribable pain. Let us bow our heads in a moment of silence and honor the memory of our heroes who stood up for Ukraine. Please also honor the memory of all peaceful citizens who have been murdered innocently by the Russian occupying state. [[A Minute of Silence]] In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the honourable national deputies of Ukraine are invited to make a signal vote prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. I ask you to take part in the signal vote. [[10:15:56]] For 210 That's great. 210, 6th, 2nd. Fantastic. I can see that this virus is moving into the next row. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Once again, I appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session taken in Parliament sooner than an hour after the end of our work. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague of the Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Illich Ivanov, let's welcome. [[Applause]] We welcome you, we wish you good health, we wish you good work, and we wish you a victory in Ukraine as soon as possible! Welcome! Dear National Deputies, a list of issues that were previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, you have been given, and we are moving on to its consideration. Dear colleagues, before moving to the presentation, came a statement from two factions with a break and a replacement for the performance. The word is given to the national deputy Leon, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, on June 28th, President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine spoke in this room, urging us to think about what we see in Ukraine's future. But his report contained such points that do not require discussion but call for urgent action. In particular, this refers to the imperative: Ukraine must be worthy of its heroes. This thesis was also duly presented at the London conference on the restoration of Ukraine. Our nation has always demonstrated its priorities by presenting a strategy for social recovery. One of the key projects in this strategy is to create habu from prosthetics. The activity of this project is remarkable, and the number of Ukrainians who need help through constant shootings and intense fighting is increasing every day. In addition, Ukraine today is the world’s largest minefield, so the level of explosive danger remains high for a long time. Fellows, the country faces a serious challenge, bringing back tens of thousands of Ukrainians to their full lives. As a result, a round table was held in Odessa on the theme "Prostitution and Rehabilitation of Military and Civilian Workers". It carried out a rapid audit of the available possibilities – this allowed us to identify the first step in which we can start the process of improving the quality of prosthetics in Ukraine. This requires amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance on the Approval of the Procedure for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, Children with Disabilities and Other Individual Populations. The working group has already made changes and additions to this decision. These include: simplifying the conditions for getting wheelchairs with increased functionality, complementing the list of persons who have a priority right to prosthetics, and reviewing the characteristics of child care with disabilities with technical means of rehabilitation. We're going to hand the entire supply package over to the government along with a statement on behalf of the national MPs. We ask the Cabinet of Ministers to consider these changes and additions as urgent. Dear colleagues, the quality and accessibility of prosthetics is not just a good thing or even a check on humanity. It's a basic test of the ability to be a society as such. So we have no right to fail it. I invite everyone to join this initiative and sign a letter to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, another statement from two factions of "Trust" and "For the Future" about a break with a replacement for a performance. The word is given to Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I would like to address you, my honourable fellow MPs, because yesterday's appeals to the Ukrainian government, to other officials and public institutions who are concerned about the subject, we're going to call it Chernobyl, or the topic that concerns the social protection of citizens who have suffered the consequences of the accident at CHAES, so all of our actions of yesterday have no effect yet. I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council has had a draft decree to impose a moratorium on the government to adopt a notorious decision that eliminates the populated areas that enter the pollution zone today. We have warned and warned everyone that if this decision is taken by the government, the social consequences will be felt by all government officials. I would like to emphasize again, everyone. And I'm now addressing you, my distinguished colleagues, if you think that the Supreme Council will not feel what people say, you're profoundly wrong because the Cabinet of Ministers we've formed, we're in control of the government's actions today, and we're going to have to make a decision with you today to stop this very hasty, unprepared, absolutely raw decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. I reiterate that the negative effects that may be will be felt by all political forces and all politicians. So please, let's do it again, if we don't want to look at the moratorium ruling in the session room today, let's work with the government now, in our own direction, through our political factions, through political groups, let's try to convince the government not to make this rash decision. Yesterday, we proposed to create a working group with a number of deputies, representatives of Kabmin, experts, where we would look again at what today we need to make changes to what legislation we have in Chernobyl. Yesterday there was an absolute proposal to divide the social cluster with the issues of polluted areas and this can be done. But doing so calmly, taking into account that the state of war and people’s destruction can have tremendous negative consequences. I urge you, colleagues, to work together against this government decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u5	From the procedure? Heratchenka, please. But only by procedure. Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Conciliation Council supported the decision to put into order the daily bill 9358 concerning bomb shelters. Regrettably, this bill was not considered by the environmental profiling committee. And that's why he's not in the daytime. And that's very wrong, because there's a lot of talk about bomb shelters and no decision. We call on the Head of the Supreme Council to give an immediate commission to the committee to consider this bill, to put it in the agenda. And the second. There is a decree registered by our faction regarding the immediate withdrawal of the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. What a shame that the Voice faction doesn't give us three minutes to make a statement. I'm speaking to my colleagues at the Voice faction, and I'm sure we're here in the same position. Please give us a joint statement to protest what is going on with the Committee on Freedom of Speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, from what I've heard, it's for this bill. What do you scream all the time, Irina Volodymyrna?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u8	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u9	Let me be a little bit. Because I, well, have that kind of authority. I'm going to start with the committee that was going to consider this bill, which Irina Volodymyrovna was talking about, please gather for us to have a committee decision one last time and make a decision on how to put it into the agenda or not, as the Conciliation Council will decide. Okay, Oleg? Thank you. Thank you. Let's move on. I'll have a nice lunch with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u10	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Mr. Head and the faction leaders, and the committee leaders, we have registered a draft Decree 9472, which shows that we must immediately adopt this decision in Parliament's walls, which will bring about a moratorium on changes in the list of population items that are related to the third Chernobyl area. Over the past few weeks, we've been going around these northern areas -- this is Volinska, this is Ravenska, this is Žitomirska District, we've been talking to people. People go out on protest campaigns, cover up routes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u11	I'm sorry. What's the procedure here?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u12	I beg you, Mr. Head, lift up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u13	He's not in the daytime. Competitive counsel.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u14	No, I don't. [[Unheard]] No discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u15	The Conciliation Board did not include him in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u16	Ruslan Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u17	And the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u18	First of all, consider it without discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u19	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u20	But make a decision. Because people are really going to protest, and these are the northern regions that border Belarus, which are not friendly to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u21	Okay. Dear colleagues, please. Dear colleagues, let's get to work first, and then we'll be all procedural issues. 5125th draft of the Law on Credit Associations. Dear colleagues, this is the second reading, this is the second reading. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed that there would be a five - minute speech by Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Then there will be 22 revisions from Puzichuk. Right? Then Julia Volodymyrna puts 12 amendments to confirm, and then we vote in favour of this bill. Here we go. Julius Volodymyrically, please, five minutes. Julius Volodymyrically, from the place, please, Julia Volodymyrically, from the place. We have a second reading. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, we recently have Prime Minister Schmigal of Ukraine, against whom criminal cases for corruption have now been committed, he has made a unique statement on his social network accounts that Ukraine will now follow the strategy of establishing a resource centre for Europe in Ukraine following his consultations with the Office of Reforms. I want to ask you who was consulted, what was discussed and how was this discussed, and who gave Ukraine the status of a resource centre for anyone? We are the resource center of ourselves, and unfortunately, the policy that Schmigal has announced is now being implemented in so many of the laws that this Parliament is adopting. I don't want to count all the laws, their hundreds, that are adopted against national interests and against the rights, the freedoms of Ukrainians during the war. Well, yesterday, for example, such a unique bill, unique, now Ukraine will be a resource centre for growing narcotic marijuana, I think, for half the world. It will be such a platform for drug corporations and yesterday under the sole tears and ovations of this law passed, calling it something that is not true, the marijuana law for medical purposes, which was a great deception. And then we're looking at all the time in the hall, some bills that take the last few copies from people. A government decree is now being prepared to cancel the third Chernobyl zone and, as a result, to make people a resource center, to take the last cents that the state pays them through the Chernobyl courts, because these people need help. Now these people are going to have to take the money, too. And today, finally, people want to use it again (at last in their paws). These credit unions, the credit unions that have already suffered a meltdown because people have not been protected during the global financial crisis, and the people who put money into these credit unions have run out of money, and the state of Ukraine has even erased these credit unions. They've taken a little break and now again is the Credit Associations Act, which will once again be given without any conditions, without any restrictions on creating in Ukraine, well, hundreds, thousands of new MMMs, and taking money from people through advertising, because of promises of some incredible percentage. In this Law on Credit Associations, there is no protection for people from the fact that these fraudsters will open these credit unions, raise money from people, and then we will not find any human money or credit unions. Our team has filed with this bill laws that had to protect people, their money from being used by fraud based on the new MMMs created by this law. But our revisions are, unfortunately, unaccounted for. We passed an alternative law that predicted that you would give back to people the money that you already took from them through the credit unions that disappeared, and then discuss new conditions, the rules, all you need to do to keep people safe. And today, it's not that our alternative law is not considered, it's not supported, it's all done in this law, so that those who open credit unions don't answer to the law, to the country, to the people. And that's why I call on MPs: don't make people another resource center for fraudsters, don't let them take their last copies through credit unions. Vote against this Law on Credit Associations.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u23	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Let's move on. Then we're going to have the Puzichuk revisions, right? Now, Mr. Andrew, I'll get it. The first amendment is number two. Please report to her.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u24	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, the similar zeal with which this bill was put forward, once very conveniently described by the Second Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ivan Stepanovich Plush, he said, "Why bother him if he doesn't climb?" Now it's the third second reading of this bill. And the same bill. Dear colleagues, look at the contempt you have for us. It's absolutely the exact same table that we rejected for the first time. That's the table we rejected the second time. And when they don't change anything, they take the same table the third time. I have a question for the reporter. Mrs. Victoria, explain why this contempt and what has been further developed, what has changed if the Supreme Council has twice expressed its position on this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u25	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u26	Good afternoon, colleagues. I'd like to hear, of course, the substance of the amendment you're talking about. This is the first time. And secondly, I can tell you in chronological order why this law has not been passed. For the first time, we had a remote control for the vote, and the MPs ran out of the hall. The second time we had a war on February 24. And the third time we had air anxiety, we couldn't get together and vote. So there's no rush. And the fact that we haven't changed the table just says that the law has been carefully worked out for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u27	Yes, Puziczuk's second amendment was rejected by the committee. You've heard the side arguments. Please vote. [[10:34:39]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to the 12th. Please, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u28	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziychuk. Dear colleagues, I can't understand one thing why the committee doesn't want to hear people's MPs and work out a text so we can adopt a quality bill? There's absolutely no interference in the whole bill! That's what the reporter said. It's the same comparative table. And, honourable colleagues, the 18 - page conclusion of the Chief Legal Authority. 18 pages of notes! Important, conceptual comments, including on the unconstitutionality of the bill. Do you know what's most sad? That's right, we really need to solve the problems of credit unions. Unfortunately, though, this bill will make it even worse, and it will create even more problems. So please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, the 12th amendment, the authorship of Puziyczuk, was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:36:04]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 23, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u30	16th, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u31	I'm sorry, I have your list, I'm on your list.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u32	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u33	23rd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u34	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this bill provides that the National Bank must certify, control, remove, eliminate, completely manage credit unions, and that is at the expense of the investors of all credit companies. In fact, the credit cooperation system is fully switched to manual control. After the adoption of this law, ten - way investors will go around credit unions. Look, colleagues, starting in 2010, a huge number of credit unions have not been able to recover their money and the state should not transfer the burden of liability to these investors. And I'm asking the committee representative to comment on such excessive powers of Nazbank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u35	Will you comment? Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u36	First, Amendment 23 does not apply at all, it refers to the definition of terms, and we have brought the terms into line with our other legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u37	The 23rd amendment was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. The authorship of Puzichuk. [[10:37:49]] For-41 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 34. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u38	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the task of the state is to ensure the financial stability and security of credit unions. People have the right to rely on state protection, but does this law provide? Of course not. Does this bill contain effective mechanisms to prevent the bankruptcy of credit unions? No, it doesn't. Does it ensure that previously looted members of credit unions are restored to their rights? No, he does not achieve that goal. Does it contain mechanisms to prevent similar situations in the future? Of course not. The bill lays the groundwork for the total destruction of the credit cooperative system. So what is the point of supporting a bill that is harmful today? And I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u39	Amendment 34, Puziyczuka, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:39:15]] For-59 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 38. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u40	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, according to this bill, credit unions will continue to be identified as insolvent and their members will lose money. The issue of credit unions is very painful for Ukrainians. We are obliged to adopt a law that would allow credit unions to work in a clear and clearly regulated legislative field. However, this bill is a mistake that will have to be answered for. And the main thing is to pay the depositors of the credit unions. The adoption of such a law will be another disappointment to people in the actions of today’s authorities. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u41	Amendment 38, Puziyczuka, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:40:32]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 49. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u42	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Colleagues, listen carefully, please. More than 2 million Ukrainians lost their money because of unprofessional government regulations. The government revoked the licenses of credit unions, and their documents were removed by law enforcement officials. The state decided to help banks, and the credit unions did not, nor did it. More than 2 million people's contributions were not guaranteed as was done for bank deposits. People took all the risks themselves, that's life savings, pension savings. It is not clear that credit unions are an important part of the financial system, of the financial market, especially those who live in villages and villages, not in large cities, and do not have full access to banking services.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u43	49 Puzichuk correction. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[10:42:05]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 69. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u44	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, as proposed by the bill, we don't just solve problems, we deepen problems. Pressure, coercion and government regulation are completely different things. The state must create the right conditions for a credit cooperative, not destroy credit unions. I have already mentioned today that we need to restore the rights of those who have lost their savings, starting in 2010. But that is not all. There are prerequisites for the total destruction of the credit cooperative system. Credit unions will continue to be declared insolvent and their members will lose their savings. Colleagues, I insist that we reject this bill for the third time. There's no one left.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u45	69 Puzichuk correction. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[10:43:34]] For-48 The decision is not taken. The next 80 amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u46	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, if you don't listen to me, please read the conclusion of the General Legal Authority, a comment on 18 sheets. In doing so, it points out that this bill is inconsistent with just three articles of the Constitution, which are articles 13, 19 and 92. The Supreme Council cannot adopt laws that do not correspond to the Constitution, which directly contradict it. Dear colleagues, instead, this bill confers excessive discretion on the National Bank. This is not a reanimation of credit unions, this bill, I repeat, is a mistake that will have to be answered for. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u47	The amendment of 80 committees was rejected by the authorship of Puziyczuk. Please identify and vote. [[10:44:57]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Amendment 107. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u48	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind you of the words he spoke at the committee meeting during the preparation of this bill for consideration in the first reading. I'm going to quote, "We know the questions of credit unions. The citizens of these credit unions come to my house, and honestly, without tears they can't be heard. It's really the tragedy of people, it's really the fraudulent actions of the owners of these credit unions." As it turns out, the rights of people you cannot hear without tears are so openly ignored? Is this a conscious position that the rights of those you cannot hear without tears will not be restored? But, dear colleagues, you claim one thing, and you do quite another. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u49	107 Puzichuk correction. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[10:46:19]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 213 revisions. Please, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u50	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, once again, the issue of credit unions is fair to many Ukrainians. So we have to adopt such a law that there's no financial speculation, that people don't cheat or pull money out of it, so that without fraud, it's like 10 years ago that no one makes money in another person's trouble. We have to adopt a law to really solve the issues of more than two million Ukrainians who have suffered as a result of lending. We are obliged to adopt a law that would allow credit unions to work in a clear and clearly regulated legislative field. Otherwise, the adoption of the new Law on Credit Associations makes no sense, so this bill has to be explicitly rejected, and my amendment is asked to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u51	Please correct 213 Puziczuk. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[10:47:48]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 240, Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u52	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, here are some of the powers of the National Bank as regulators that are defined by this bill. He has the right to require additional information, documents and explanations when issuing licences to the credit union, to set requirements for the credit management system, to the internal control system, to the content and form of the recovery plan. It is for its own discretion to determine the functions of the rule-of-law control unit, financial and non-financial information about the activity, the financial and economic activity of the credit association, which is necessary for the purpose of overseeing the activity of the credit union. A list of other information that is important for oversight purposes. A list of the signs of a credit venture." And this is not a complete list of the excessive discretionary powers of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u53	240 Puzichuk's amendment, rejected by the committee, please identify and vote. [[10:49:16]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 291, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u54	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Colleagues, I quote from the Chief Legal Authority: "The approvals of the public authority are not correctly formulated, often using subjective evaluation categories. Any indication of the content of future requirements, restrictions, criteria for the decision of the regulator, in the course of the state regulation of the activities of credit unions, is not available in the bill. The number and extent of the rights given to the regulator do not allow any finalisation of the legal mechanisms for regulating the activities of credit unions. The bill gives the National Bank sufficient authority to fully transfer the market to manual management." So please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u55	Amendment 291, Puziyczuk, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:50:34]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 374th. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u56	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, another important quote from the conclusion of the Chief Legal Authority to this bill: "The above remarks are not exhaustive. Given the nature of the comments made, the bill requires substantial conceptual elaboration. However, the committee has demonstrated its unwillingness to elaborate on the bill in a conceptual way. So once again, there is no point in bringing the bill back to the committee for further work, and it must be rejected. And I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u57	Please, 374 revisions, Puziczuka. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[10:51:44]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 453, Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u58	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the "Fatherland" faction has passed an alternative bill, where a defined mechanism for resolving the issue of credit unions. During the committee's consideration it was as if and understanding was, and support was, and it was appropriate for the committee to address the problems of restoring the business of credit companies, but the reality was quite different. Over a long period of time, we have made repeated warnings about its conceptual flaws and shortcomings for more than two years and have made a number of amendments. Unfortunately, we have what we have today, the consideration of specific amendments probably doesn't make any sense, because the concept and the approach to the bill are absolutely unacceptable. Therefore, there is no need to support him. This bill needs to be completely rejected. Thank you. And support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u59	453 revision of the authorship of Puziyczuk was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:53:14]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 592 revisions. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u60	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! I am very much surprised by the bill's approach to granting credit unions rights, which are totally out of nature of credit unions. This applies, in particular, to the right to be a participant (founder) of the corporate banks of payment system operators, for which the lending community uses its members' funds at the business risk of a company that they have no influence over. In doing so, article 3 of this bill states that a credit union engages in business activities without the purpose of earning profits, noncommercial farming. The credit union with the purpose of taxation refers to non-profit organizations, if the requirements are met, I ask you to comment, Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u61	592 amendments were rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:54:43]] For-42 The decision is not taken. 627 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u62	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mrs. Victoria, I'd like to ask you to comment, explain to me and your colleagues: why you're introducing this bill, which is inconsequential -- what I've pointed out, in the nature of the credit unions, in particular the right to be a participant (founder) of corporate banks and payment system operators. Why did you choose to go into a risky business at the expense of credit card investors, why do you set such standards? It's not about protection. This is actually about misleading Ukrainian citizens to raise funds and invest in in incomprehensible payment systems. It's not about protecting citizens, it's about ripping money out. Please comment on my amendment and this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u63	627th Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u64	Thank you. This amendment refers to the provisions of article 12 of the bill. And here it's important that we keep the correspondence rule in the regulatory authority to change the scope of the credit union license and there's nothing else here if we're talking about this amendment. And I'd like to ask you, an amendment reporter, to report, in fact, that we don't confuse what amendment you're voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u65	627 Puzichuk's correction has been rejected. You've heard the position. Please identify and vote. [[10:56:41]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 767. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, we are now in the midst of a full-scale invasion of the Russian Federation, supporting the defence sector with you -- our friends, our relatives, who are serving today. And listen, there's a call from the All-U.S. Army Association saying that the bill, I quote a speech from the community. The All-Ukrainian Military Association. " bill 5125 definitively destroys the root of a successful system of credit cooperation. Over the past two years, the National Bank has consistently implemented a policy of destroying credit cooperation as a class, not only has it not taken any measures aimed at preventing credit unions, but it has also blocked any attempts by the public towards settlement.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u67	767 Puzichuk's correction. Declined by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:58:09]] For-40 The decision is not taken. 819 revisions. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u68	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Despite the numerous appeals made by members of previously created credit unions whose activities have been suspended by the supervisory authorities, the bill in no way solves the problem of compensating their contributions as defined in the Final and Transitional Regulations, paragraph 18 of which is provided by the Cabinet of Ministers, with the participation of the National Bank and the Attorney General's Office, to prepare a plan of action on possible ways to compensate members of credit unions and within the limits of the authority of the measures used seems to be abuse. It is incomprehensible how these totally different powers of authority are to be made by public authorities. They cannot make decisions in any way, for in accordance with the Constitution public authorities must.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u69	819 Puzichuk’s amendment was rejected by the committee. Please determine by vote. [[10:59:39]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 821. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u70	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, today when Ukraine is fighting for values and freedoms of democracy, when the Ukrainian people are actually defending not only their state, but also the values of the entire civilized world, paying the highest price of their lives, we do not have the slightest right to adopt laws that will harm our society, our state, our people. This is about any sphere that needs a legislative settlement. So in order to regulate the activities of credit companies, we have to adopt a law so that there is no financial speculation, so that people don't cheat or pull money out of them, so that there are no frauds like 10 years ago, so that no one can make money in another person's misery. So this bill has to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u71	821 Puzichuk's correction was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:01:02]] For-46 The decision is not taken. 830 revisions, please, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u72	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm done with the repairs. Dear colleagues, once again, we have no right at this time to support such shameful laws that will harm Ukrainian citizens. Today, we must stand for the protection of both the state and the Ukrainian society, Ukrainian people, including the depositors of credit unions. So, colleagues, I urge you not all to support this shameful bill, to abstain or vote with red buttons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u73	830 Puzichuk's correction was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:02:11]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Yeah, you have 953 and 964. I understand you won't, will you? Dear colleagues, no one else has their own amendments to account for? No one has. Please tell me I have a letter from Julia Volodymyrna. Julius Volodymyr, 33rd, 61st, 98th, 170th, 247th, 289th, 292th, 306th, 482nd, 523rd, 548th and 559th, I can bet on confirmation, right? Are you going to report any more? You took five minutes. No, it's not. I'm just taking it one at a time, aren't I? Okay. Please, I'm asking the people's deputies to assemble in their seats. Now I'm going to start looking for these amendments, and these amendments are going to be valid for confirmation, your honorary colleagues. Yes, the first is 33. The 33 revision of Getmantsev's authorship is counted by the committee. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. This is an amendment to the confirmation. 33 Amendment of the authorship of Getmannsev and colleagues. She's a committee member. She's a committee member. I'm putting 33 amendments on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:04:02]] For 243 Decision taken. Next amendment 61. I'll find her now. 61st is also an amendment to the authorship of Getmantsev and colleagues. It's counted by the committee. Tymoshenko is putting this amendment to confirm. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:04:38]] For 251 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. 98 revisions. This is an amendment to the authorship of Allahverdius. It's partially accounted for. At the same time, such a decision by the committee regarding the consideration of part of the National MP, Timoshenko, asks for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. 98 revisions. [[11:05:17]] For 255 Decision taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. 170 revisions of the authorship of Getmantsev. It's counted by the committee. Tymoshenko is putting this amendment to confirm. I'll bet 170 for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:05:53]] For 258. Decision taken. The edit remains counted. 247 amendments to the authorship are also made by Getmanceva and colleagues. It's taken into account by the committee, so I'm putting 247 amendments to the vote. Please vote. [[11:06:31]] For 262 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. 289 amendments to the authorship are also made by Getmanceva and colleagues. She's a committee member. Timoshenko makes this decision for confirmation. I'll bet 289 a confirmation amendment. Please vote. [[11:07:03]] For 258. Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. 292 revisions. This is an amendment to the authorship of Getmancev and his colleagues. It's considered editorially. This decision on accounting is editorially requested by National MP Timoshenko for confirmation. I'm betting on the confirmation of the decision to take editorial amendment 292 into account. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:07:40]] For 259. Decision taken. The amendment remains edited. 306 Amendment of the authorship of Getmancev and colleagues. It's counted by the committee. Timishenko's putting her on the stand. I'll bet 306 on confirmation. Please vote. [[11:08:12]] For 258. Decision taken. 306 amendments remain included. 482 amendment, honorary colleagues, 482 amendment of the authorship of Getmanchev and colleagues. It's counted by the committee. Tymoshenko puts this amendment in place for confirmation, 482 amendments. Please vote. [[11:08:53]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, three more amendments, and after that we are voting on the bill as a whole. 523 amendment, 523 amendment is the amendment of the authorship of Getmanchev and colleagues. She's a committee member. Tymoshenko is putting 523 amendments on confirmation. Please vote. [[11:09:29]] For 264 Decision taken. The next 548 amendment, the 548 amendment, is also the Getmanceva. It's counted by the committee. Tymoshenko is putting 548 amendments on confirmation. Please vote. [[11:10:05]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the final amendment is 559 amendments. The authorship of Getmantsev and colleagues as well. She's a committee member. Timoshenko makes this decision for confirmation. I'll bet 559 acknowledgments for confirmation, dear colleagues. Please vote. [[11:10:42]] For 262 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. Dear colleagues, we have passed all the amendments and are now going to vote for the bill. I propose to adopt the draft Law on Credit Associations (registration number 5125) in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:11:26]] For 258. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Welcome, colleagues. Another Euro-Integration Bill. Hello. Dear colleagues, on July 10, 2023, a statement came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the national deputy of the Ukraine of Plačko Platjana Mikhailna regarding the submission of parliamentary powers pursuant to article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered the application. For this reason, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has registered a corresponding draft Decree number 9489. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. In accordance with the first part of the second paragraph, part four of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine puts to the vote the entire draft Order (registration number 9489) on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy of the Platcha Platjana Mikhaylovna. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:12:36]] For 283 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] About what? Who's it gonna be? Irina Volodymyrna? Please. By procedure, I understand correctly, Irina Volodymyrna? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, our faction demanded that this vote be discussed. It was about putting together a mandate as a deputy from the OPCW, who went to Moscow in the midst of the war, along with other OPCW deputies, who lacked the strength and courage to mandate today. It's obvious that we weren't allowed to speak out of this. Just as we are not given a word about our decision to withdraw from the office of head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech by Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. We understand so much that it's so wide between the ruling majority and the shards of the LLDC, because together you vote well under all the laws. We need to give us two minutes to discuss this. We will have Alexy Honcharenko, who has prepared an appropriate decision on the mandate of all members of the forbidden party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u75	So, Irina Volodymyrna, about the width and everything -- you have some mental pain from the past, I think. One. The other one. Without discussion, we discussed it on the Conciliation Council. Two. Third. If you have one. What are you waving at? You weren't on the Conciliation Council, you're all waving no. And I'm telling you this because I was there. That's it, thank you. Let's move on. Next bill 7629. Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility in Collectively Responsible Activities. Dear colleagues, we've agreed on a three-minute speech for Volintz and we're voting on this bill. Please, Mr. Mikhailo Wolitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention. You and I set a normal standard that provides responsibility for compliance with collective agreements and responsibilities. Dear friends, I beg your attention. Look, we're setting a normal norm to increase administrative responsibility for the maintenance of a collective company, collective bargaining, the collective responsibility of the parties – the employers' sides, the authorities and the trade unions. At the same time, we put in the opposite rule that in enterprises with a population of up to 25 employees, we can not conclude a collective agreement, not hold ourselves accountable when collective agreements are not concluded when information is provided. I mean, look what's going on. The company in 500 people is reduced to 100, then divided into four groups, locksmiths separately, clerks separately, cleaning houses separately and certain outsourcings, other names there, whatever, but there are no collective contracts anymore. And that's 45 bills lately. We get to the point where the people who are hired remain completely unprotected. And that's what we do for the future. In no way should such things be permitted. This is a violation of International Labour Organization Convention No. 98, the right to collective agreements and agreements. This is a violation of Convention 87, the right to freedom of association. If you create a distortion, and this is what the authorities create, because a government bill, in that case, the authorities will fail to deal with employers’ behavior. Who will then protect the people of the hired work? This creates pressure on trade unions. There's no such thing in the world. We're going to Europe, we're trying to integrate into the European Union, and we're trying to achieve better standards of living, and in fact, when we adopt such bills, when we adopt them, we don't see the introduction to the Soviet Union. does not shed light on the introduction to the European Union. Dear friends, please don't vote for such a bill. It's equivalent to the fact that there's some kind of bill here, they're not being analyzed here, they're going to vote stupidly, but it's to the detriment of the people who are hired to work today in the trenches who have gone to fight and defend Ukraine and the democracy of our country, and peace and peace for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u77	Thank you. Please take the position of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, as you can see, are our obligations in line with European integration. It should be noted that the previous speaker manipulated a bit about what the obligation to conclude contracts is. The obligation to conclude contracts is and it is stipulated by another law that we have voted with you, which has already entered into force, is Bill 7628. Regarding the number and responsibility of the workers. The Committee on Law Enforcement decided not to touch small businesses but to assign responsibility only to those large entities with more than 25 employees. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, which provides for the responsibility of failing to make such agreements, and provides an opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u79	Thank you. Stay that way, second reading, and you'll report on the bill. Dear colleagues, we can move on to making decisions. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose, my fellow Members, to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the Strengthening of Responsibility in the Field of Collective and Legal Activities (registration number 7629). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:19:47]] For 256 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. The factions, please. Next 4482. Dear colleagues, this is also a second reading. We agreed on a five-minute speech by Timoshenko, and then we vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Please take your place, Calaure. Julia Volodymyr, please, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, this is about the registration of branches of foreign legal persons in Ukraine. I'm not going to be long in your time, I'm just going to say that when we're going to join the European Union, and for us, this is a strategic goal for us, for Ukraine -- this is one of the things that is in our lives right now, and moving to the European Union, to the accession, we need to make very substantive choices about all the positions that protect the sovereignty of Ukraine that protect our equality in the European Union with other countries when we enter it. Every bill, every decision we make, must be in the fundamental negotiating process. And we can't take laws, decisions with you, even moving towards the European Union, which in any case give Ukraine less rights, less opportunities than other countries in the European Union. We can't, in any case, record any documents, don't give God, even though we're referring to the inequality of Ukraine with other countries members of the European Union. And I'm concerned that the negotiations that we're conducting, that the laws that we're adopting are very weak to protect Ukraine's interests, and that's the case with the work of the subsidiaries of the dominant subjects in Ukraine. Why not make our branches abroad, our landowners, work according to the same rules as the branches of foreign landowners in Ukraine? We believe that this law fundamentally differs from the rights of Ukraine, the status of Ukrainian branches abroad, and the status of branches of foreign landowners in Ukraine. There can't be this inequality, we've been making adjustments that have levelled these things. I would just like to have you with us as we move forward to join the European Union, as well as during the negotiation process that will begin by the end of this year. So that we don't take a weak position so that every time we fight for equality of status in the European Union, our own, whatever, we can take their laws, translate and do the same in our country, you know? That now has the power of our negotiating process. And I very much ask all the committees to pay attention to that. Because, unfortunately, our positions today do not look strong. I think we have to have a concept that's not what we're told and not what we're asked to have, but that's what we have to have. And then we're really going to have a fair integration process. And the Ukrainians deserved a fair process of integration into the European Union as a level playing field, not as a resource centre of Europe, as Prime Minister Schmigal declared. And we will certainly continue to vote in favour of this bill because we believe that there will be insufficient control of the branches. All systems of integration of branches of foreign economic operators into Ukrainian economic space will not be sufficient. We would have to work out this law thoroughly. That's why we're going to hold on. And we hope that further bills will still be more consistent with similar bills in the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u81	Please give a brief position to the committee on all of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u82	I fully support Julia Volodymyrna in the fact that Ukraine deserves to be integrated. But we cannot have total control of the branches and representations in the law, for foreign owners will then not have much interest in joining our farming activities. The bill is very clear today as to how the branches of representation of legal persons created under the legislation of a foreign state are to be terminated. I ask the MPs to support this bill because it is another step towards Ukrainian integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this important issue, and we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the organization of the activities of separate departments of a legal person established in accordance with the legislation of a foreign State (registration number 4482). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:26:19]] For 254 Decision taken. The law is to be passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! Welcome to the committee! Dear colleagues, the following bill 9431 is a draft law amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. This is the Presidential Bill. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:26:54]] For 253 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:27:14]] For 219 Decision taken. The word is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Fedor Volodymyrovich Venislavski. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u84	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed for Bill 9431, which was introduced by the President of Ukraine and is defined as urgent for amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. The main purpose of the bill is to break the spiritual relationship that existed in Soviet and imperial times between the Russian Empire and the Ukrainian State regarding the same celebration of prominent religious festivals on the basis of the Julian calendar dedicated to the observance of Christ’s Christmas, according to this calendar. The purpose of the bill is to move to the New Julian calendar and to amend the laws governing public holidays accordingly. I would also like to remind you that on May 24, this year, the Orthodox Church of Ukraine at the Archdiocese Council approved the final transition to the New Julian calendar of September 1, this year. In connection with this President, it is proposed that changes be made to the celebration of Christ’s Christmas from January 7 to December 25. This will make the celebration of the Ukrainian Orthodox world equal to that of the entire Orthodox civilized world except the Russian Empire. The other one. It is proposed that the celebration of the Day of the Ukrainian State be postponed from July 28 to July 15, which is marked by the celebration of the memory of the Equator Prince of Kiev, Vladimir the Great, and the celebration of the Day of Protectors and Protectors from October 14 to October 1st on the roof of the Holy Virgin. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u85	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal: two in favour, two in opposition. Okay? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u86	I beg your pardon, Mr. Head, to pass on to Vátrovitch Volodymyr. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u87	Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u88	Everything that connects us with Moscow will be used against us. Equal street names, populated sites, the same monuments are used by Russia for the key ones about one nation, and thus for the destruction of Ukraine. That is why it is so important that we in Ukraine have implemented the policy of decommunization. That's why it's so important that we are now implementing the policy of decolonization in Ukraine. Therefore, it is so important that we do not share public holidays with Russia so that we do not celebrate religious festivals with it. In 2015, for the first time, we offered an alternative to the day of the May 9 victory, marking the Day of Remembrance on May 8. This year, the victory day was finally canceled on May 9. In 2017, for the first time, we made December 25th, supporting the tradition of celebrating Christmas with most of the world. This year, a truly historic step was taken by the Ukrainian churches to announce the transition to a new Julian calendar from September of this year. This bill is important because it is a step in the face of Ukrainian churches, for it envisions synchronization of national and religious festivals. And this is a really important step from Russia, and so it's a step towards victory. But there is another very important step towards our victory and from Russia, it is a ban on the Russian Orthodox Church. Our committee has been supporting systematic and complementary bills for many months now: 8221 Mikli Knyazick and 8262 Irina Konstankević. And unfortunately, it's a very irresponsible position that we still haven't included these bills in the agenda. We have to do this. Get away from Moscow! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u89	Please, Igor Volodymyrovich Gus, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u90	Igor Gus, MP for the Future. You know, my friends, what was a few years ago was hard to even introduce, actually, was an important breakup with Moscow on religious ground, and I welcome the decisions of our Ukrainian churches, the Orthodox Church of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, which after some doubt, but have made a decision, an important decision to break up with Moscow or not, these ties. I welcome the decision of the President of Ukraine, not expected for many, but to support this story. I am convinced that today the Chamber will support this decision because it is important for us to break ties on the religious front and it is important that this year the decision of the Ukrainian Parliament should make every effort that the Moscow Church does not hold its dirty hands in a religious context. There is an appropriate solution, and the process is being matured to this decision. I hope that the President's Office will still have the courage to support and appeal to the Ukrainian Parliament, and to support decisions that are already late, which have been very important for the Ukrainian Orthodox Church for several years, including. So, dear friends, I urge you to support this decision and strongly believe that the vast majority of Ukrainians will also begin supporting this decision by the end of this year. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u91	Heroic glory! Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Tsimbaluk, "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u92	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the honourable presides, the people's deputies, it's a pleasure to vote today, I'm sure, for all the session halls, the decision that was born in the previous summons, because that's when December 25th was voted Christ's Christmas. One of the authors was the great Helen Condratuk, and we thank her for that. And today we support the President's proposal to move to the celebration of Christ's Christmas and some other national holidays according to the New Julian calendar. At a meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights, we have discussed this issue and we have decided to support this bill on the basis and in general, and I ask my colleagues to vote on it today. Indeed, it is a tribute to the transition to the New Julian calendar and the Orthodox Church of Ukraine and the Greek Catholic Church of Ukraine, although in fact a large number of Eastern Christians have already moved on to this celebration. And today we're adopting it at the legislative level. The process will definitely not be easy, and people of an important age may still be celebrating January 7 for several years. But what's important is that at the legislative level, we took a step towards breaking up the Christmas celebration with the racists. This is also a positive step. And we think it's time for Protector and Protector's Day to go from October 14th to October 1st. Please support this initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u93	And it's final. I take it there's going to be a Tsabbal, right, instead of Kostenka? Please, Zabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues -- I'm sorry, just one more second -- then we vote, we vote on the basis, then on the whole. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, the Voice faction fully supports this bill. We're Greek Catholics, Catholics, Orthodoxs in our faction, we think it's the right move for the Ukrainian state. But now I'm going to the rostrum just to unfold a myth. One myth I've heard a lot about in recent years: that there is a Catholic Christmas, there is an Orthodox Christmas, and we say we want to go to a Catholic Christmas. Colleagues, most Orthodox churches live on the New Julian calendar. Greek, Ecumenical Patriarchate, and others celebrate Christmas long ago when everyone else, or December 25. So now we're going to be celebrating Christmas with other Orthodox churches. We're going to celebrate Christmas with the Catholic Church, and so are all the other holidays. So, colleagues, please support. And another nuance. I understand that both speaker and others know this because PCU has decided to move to the New Julian calendar from September 1st, so it's important that this bill by July 28th, Vladimir Day, Ukrainian State Day, is not signed. It has to be signed between July 28th and September 1, and then we are fully synchronized with our Orthodox Church of Ukraine and the UCC. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I've been thinking about going to the vote, but, Paul Andryovich, how about without you? Please, Paul Andriovich Bakunec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u96	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished nationals! Dear Ukrainians! Of course, this year is a year of special challenge by war, and it has become a year of special achievements and a special moment of such a sign. A moment that courageously began for Ukrainian Christians, the Greek-Catholic Church, which rightly went on to a new calendar. It was followed along by the Orthodox Church of Ukraine. And now we are forever separated from Moscow. We are with the Western Christian world. And it is true that the State supports and carries, in fact, the date of the celebrations, the weekends as decided by the Christian Church of Ukraine. We believe that in such a special spirit, all of us, together with the Western world, will celebrate both our victory and ours, and Christmas, and of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you all for your support. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. The committee's proposal was on the ground and in general, so I'm going to make these decisions in turn. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft law amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code (registration number 9431). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:40:21]] For 240 Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, and I propose to adopt a draft law amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code (registration number 9431) as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:40:58]] For 241 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Congratulations, colleagues. The next 9274 is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on clarifying the powers of civil protection, improving legislation on the protection of populations and territories from the consequences of emergencies, organizing and evacuating populations, ensuring the protection of life and the health of citizens. I'm proposing to include Bill 9274 in the agenda of the day. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:41:49]] For 264 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:42:10]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two in, two in, two in, against, can we do without discussion? Two in, two in. Do you want the full program? Completely abbreviated, isn't it? Okay. Please, Oleg Volodymyrovich, briefly present the bill, then brief the committee and then two against, two against.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u98	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The bill is aimed at further reforms in the area of civil protection, which will be needed primarily during the war. What is changed by this bill? The bill introduces new rules on protection requirements, introduces new rules on evacuation requirements for the population during the military situation in that account, introduces new tasks for local self-government authorities, and for public administrations. The issue of providing fire and technology is improving, and so forth. The bill also proposes to postpone the recruitment of members of the authorities and units of the DNS. Dear colleagues, the bill is important for the area of civil protection. I hope that he will be accepted in the first reading and in general. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u99	Thank you. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Mandji, briefly in the position of the committee. Of course, this is where you come out.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the drafting of the bill is called for the need to clarify the tasks of the single civil protection system of the State, to specify the full powers of civil protection subjects, to improve measures to fund and protect civilian protection facilities, to organize and conduct evacuations, chemical and radiation protection measures, to train civil protection authorities and forces, to educate the population, to provide fire and technological security, to protect the lives and health of citizens in water bodies. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine’s Civil Protection Code in order to eliminate differences in the various rules of the Code and to bring it into line with other laws that have become effective today. The draft law also amends the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status to clarify civil protection measures during a special period and amends the Ukrainian Law on Mobilization and Mobilization in the part of the suspension of the wills for military service during the mobilization of employees of organs and units of the DSF. In addition, the draft law amends the Ukrainian Insurance Act with a view to updating and bringing Ukraine into compliance with the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Functioning of Local and Voluntary Fire Protection. The bill is supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Youth and Sports, as well as by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the State Service of Ukraine on emergency situations. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine supports the bill with observations. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, please sign up: two in favour, two in favour. Please, Signora Oleg Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u102	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u103	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will generally support this project in the first reading. We agree, obviously, with the fact that DDSN workers can be freed from mobilization because they perform a truly important function in our society. But I think it would make sense before the second reading to hear the opinion of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff, because they are still responsible for the mobilization, not us. And before anyone is released, you just have to hear their opinion and they have to be ready for Parliament to make that decision. Of course, we support the initiative to build more quickly-constructed shelters and double - purposed structures, but there was to be a clear government program with clear funding, performers, control levels, and not just a line in the law. Clarification regarding the right of forced alienation of property during wartime conditions includes the alienation of protective structures. This clarification was to be made. There should be some explanation, because right now it doesn't matter whether you're hiding in private or in public property, the main thing to make it work is that it's accessible and that it's consistent with security. Do you know what's going on? We have in many draft laws rules that allow shelters, which are privately owned, to be nationalized. They may be eliminated during the war, but each time we insert it, and here we add it to the law, we must remember. In Lviv, for example, I have a well - known, beautiful publishing industry that in the territory of the abandoned enterprise has made its own shop and publishing. And so they're afraid of these norms because there are empty houses, communal or state shelters, in Kiev, I've seen them actually abandoned, where rats run. Perhaps we should repair existing shelters rather than damage business because someone wanted to evict them from their own premises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u105	Thank you. Please give the word to Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u106	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable chairman, the presidency, the people's deputies, I agree with previous speakers that the bill is extremely important, it is written by the courage of our deciduouss, the people who respond to extraordinary events. And at the same time, I want to say that there are new standards for places of mass rest near the water. This is also important. Well, and of course, in the State Service of Emergency Situations, I think it's those people who are worthy of doing on an equal footing with military tasks today, that they may be suspended during a state of war as those who are subject to military duty. But it is important to add some to the second reading and clarify some things that are not included in the main version. And we will be actively involved in its work. It's also important to cover it up. There must be a single policy in the country about places that are and warn people against mass attacks by the enemy. This should be the only state policy. The authorities of local self - government need to have clear responsibilities for such things. But once again, the Cabinet of Ministers should have a general strategy for building, repairing, building new shelters, because clearly this situation should teach us that the safety of citizens comes first. The Fatherland faction will vote on the basis of this bill and we will work on the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u107	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts on clarifying the powers of civil protection, improving legislation on the protection of populations and territories from the consequences of emergencies, organizing and evacuating populations, ensuring the protection of life and the health of citizens (registration No. 9274). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:51:46]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next Bill 9349 is a draft of the Amendment Act. Excuse me, 6349. This is a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws to improve the environmental audit process. I'd like to make an offer to consider this under a reduced procedure, 6349. Please vote. [[11:52:25]] For 206 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may we vote? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Arthur Volodymyrovich, it's wonderful that there is such a desire to discuss projects in depth. That's fantastic. The Lord will give, Irina Volodymyr. Please sign up. The word is given to Yatzik Yulia, the Grigory faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u108	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u109	You'll support it, won't you? You'll support it. Okay. Thank you. Please continue with the word "Puzichuku Andriy Viktorovich" the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian union "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u110	Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u111	Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sergey Eutuszok faction of "The Fatherland", Equinox. Respectful colleagues, in view of the state of those enterprises that have either ceased their activities or have been transferred to the authorities of the State, must, of course, make stricter conditions for environmental control and environmental audit. But at the same time, this bill not only refers to business entities as owners of enterprises, but also to business individuals, which enables us to understand that there are a number of huge questions. Regarding ecology, we have in our laws, in our laws, and in our codes, a bunch of good norms and a bunch of norms that need to be changed anyway. At the same time, there are a number of decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that regulate the control or activity of those authorities, the controlling authorities, who have to watch and control the environment. There are a number of comments from the Scientific and Scientific Administration in this bill. So, dear colleagues, if we want our country not to be on the other side of the prosperous economies where the economy thrives, we have planning processes, processes that need good plans to make them no more than the processes where we reconcile positions. The bill just has a number of observations from the Science and Technology Department and we're thinking about a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u113	The word is given to Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, the faction of European Solidarity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u114	Please pass the word to the Prince's Santa Claus. Thank you very much. I'm trying to get Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u115	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u116	Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the honourable colleagues! There's a whole bunch of incomprehensible points in this law. It is not understandable to suggest that the conclusion of an environmental audit be isolated in a separate document. Today, the results of the audit are presented in the report as an appendix to which the conclusion is drawn. The bill proposes a separate report, a separate conclusion. While the report and the conclusion of the matter are duplicating each other in many ways. The reasons for this are not explained. Obviously it's creating additional, unprovoked documents that just multiply corruption and don't help the environment at all. There is an increase in the ability to conduct an environmental audit in the absence of clear reasons. When we say that it is on the basis of a judgment of the Court of Audit, we should point out what is to be the decision on which it can be made. Is this lateral conduct, or does it need to be changed to procedural codes, which should be the plaintiff or the applicant? What has to be decided by the court, in paws, as a basis for a mandatory audit without any understanding of what is to be the subject of a dispute and what kind of violation of environmental legislation should be the basis for a mandatory, in fact, enforcement environmental audit. The guarantees of independence are declining, says the environmental audience. Because an enterprise or even a FOP loses clear weights of influence on a person conducting a mandatory audit. For example, the lack of qualifications, experience or technical means offered by the State of the auditor is no reason to refuse to make a treaty with it. The law is not perfect enough, which does not help ecology, but it obviously limits business and the Ukrainian economy. That's why our faction will hold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed all matters related to this, and we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, on the basis of the Committee's proposals and with the development of regulations in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, a draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine to improve the environmental audit process. Ready to vote? Registration number 6349. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:58:48]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's re-read it, dear fellows, I'll make this proposal. This is a rereading of the first reading. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to send 6349 to read again. I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[11:59:31]] For 215 The solution. Let us direct the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support this. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:59:59]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The law is regarded as being rejected. Thank you, dear fellows, that's what happens. It's not a big deal, either. You'd better work on the next line. It's a democracy. Dear colleagues, the following Bill 9408 is a draft regulation on the approval of proposals for the application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) to representatives of sports organisations of the Russian Federation and the republic of Belarus (9408). I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[12:00:53]] For 247 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:01:15]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please discuss. Please give the floor to People’s Deputy Kožemyakin Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u118	Good afternoon, colleagues! Honourable Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, draft Decision developed by the Ukrainian National Deputies members of the Youth and Sports Committee to provide preconditions for the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine to apply sanctions to representatives of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus. I would like to point out that the brutal war waged by the Russian Federation in support of the Republic of Belarus is ongoing. And as Ukrainian athletes, children, the Russian army destroys Ukrainian cities, villages and villages, representatives of the Russian Federation's sports organizations and the Republic of Belarus and its athletes continue to publicly support the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine, the genocide of the Ukrainian people and the deportation of Ukrainians. Among those who systematically and actively support the war against Ukraine, they legitimize military incursions and genocide of Ukrainians by the Russian Federation's armed forces, such as Agapitov, President of Russia's heavy athletics, Baraulia, Deputy Minister of Sport of Belarus, Dvorkovic, President of the International Chess Federation, Mamiasville, President of the Federation of Russian Sports, Esheyev, President of the Russian Anti-Onion Federation, former hockey players known as: Paul Burre, Kamensky, Shalimov, Popov, and Irina Winer, president of the Federation of Gymnastics In this regard, we have prepared a list of individuals, representatives of sports organizations, only 36, the Russian Federation, and the Republic of Belarus to apply special economic and other restrictive measures, sanctions. Please be supportive. Victory will follow us and glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u119	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, two for, two for, please. Let's sign up. Please, Miseghin Yuri Mihajlovich, faction of the Political Party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u120	Please give the floor to a colleague of Mazurash, George.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u121	Please, Mazurash.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, George Mazurasu, Servant of the People, Committee of Youth and Sports. I don't think there'll be anyone in the room who won't support this motion for a verdict. This decision is another element of the fight against the presence of representatives of Russian and Belarusian sports in a civilized and sports community. And of course, by asking our partners to support our efforts in the fight for the cleansing of sport from those who support incompatible things with the purity of sport, i.e. those who support aggression, of course, that we should apply all possible ones there, including sanctions against those who act in Russia and Belarus, which at this time do not only condemn racist aggression, which should be done by all civilized people, and even support the actions of the criminal regime of Russia and Belarus, which is the result of the destruction of the Ukrainian people, the destruction, the killing of the Ukrainians, the destruction of our country, the genocide of the Ukrainian people. And I think this decision will help us get rid of those representatives, such as Dvorkovic, who are still wise to lead the International Chess Federation, and other actioners with a minus sign that doesn't belong in world sports, at least until Russia stops the aggression against Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u123	Please, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, of course, we are voting in favour of having these 36 freaks on the list today, Russian athletes, excluded from the lists of civilized athletes who do not deserve respect from the fans of various kinds of sport. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I wanted to thank Andria Cosemiakin personally for her persistent stand, for this is the third decision that recommends that the PRSP decide on Russian so - called athletes. If the government had acted in the same way in the sphere of bilateral agreements that still exist with Rasca and Belarus, we would have put a stop to these shameful issues long ago. Do you know that to this day we have an ennam of bilateral agreements that we have not denounced? Yesterday's agenda was the draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Joint Control of Persons, Means of Transport and Goods at the Ukrainian-Russian State Border. He is not in today’s order. What, not on time again? I've analyzed how many governments in 2022 and 2023 have made such deals on a drop. In April 2022, the Belarus Agreement in the field of education, in May 2022, the Agreement with Russia in the field of fish farming, in June 2022, the Agreement with Russia in the field of science and technology. One a month. I'm talking to you, colleagues, for the most part. You have these possibilities, you have to commit the government to compile a list of all the bilateral Ukrainian-Russian treaties. Let's take two hours to put a dot in the next session.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u125	Please, Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u126	Please pass the word to Irina Volodymyrni Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u127	Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u128	Why aren't we in NATO? We'll remind the speaker of the phantom pains of the past when the pro-Moscow politicians gave some Ukrainian skeptics the thesis that not all of Ukraine for NATO, and Nestor was here for weeks on display as a frontman of this action, "NATO is no!" Why is Ukraine not in NATO? Maybe because on the second day after President Zelensky's inauguration to the D.B.I., Nestor-lethospist filed a petition saying that President Poroshenko was guilty of counterattack. And the volumes of these pasquills have been investigated all these years, for President Prashenko has dared to order the release of Ukrainian Donetsk and Lugansk. And, you know, this pastaville isn't closed yet. In November 2022, the DBR, which fled from the first months of the war, continued this Pascville, and is still investigating the counterattack, the liberation of Ukrainian Donetsk and Lugansk. I wonder, are these people going to open a criminal case about Greene's counterattack? Why are we not in NATO? Perhaps because we do not have freedom of speech? Maybe it's because we still have the marathon? Maybe it's because the Council TV doesn't show opposition? Why aren't we in NATO? Because Nestor Schufrich is still head of the Freedom of Speech Committee! You're not ashamed of everyone!? Aren't you ashamed? We demand that a decree be put to the vote, which we have registered, so that the person who has dragged Ukraine into "Russian peace" for so many years, may at least be removed from the head of the Committee of Freedom of Speech. This must be our shared responsibility. I see that people in the "Serves of the People" are embarrassed. So do anything revolutionary in your faction and help us to make justice in this room today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u129	Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, since the beginning of the war, and since 2014, the war has unfortunately lasted not 500 days, but over 8 years, more than 300 Ukrainian athletes have been killed. Over 300! And this list is filled in every day. I am madly grateful to our delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which for the first time on an international level called on Russia not to allow Russia, so-called Russia, to compete internationally. This practice should be promoted. I am equally grateful to the profile committee, Mr. Cosemyakin, for quickly implementing the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. We need to move faster because the memory of more than 300 of our fallen athletes needs more active action. But today we vote as quickly as possible and do not make this a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a proposal that takes into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Regulation on the Approval of Proposals for the Application of Personal Special Economic and Other Restrictive Measures (Sanctions) to representatives of the sports organisations of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus (Registration No. 9408). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:13:21]] For 270. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, there is a break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to Puskarenka from two factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u132	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, you know that several weeks ago a disgraceful project was launched on the State Agency’s site for the management of the alienation zone. Why Disgusting? And I would very much like to look into the eyes of those officials who were preparing him. Because, first of all, it's not time to raise that question. Secondly, we're talking about 11 northern areas, the communities of our state. The very areas, those communities that continue to suffer today, in the last year and a half, are at risk of incursion, under attack, there is, in fact, a difficult, tense situation. But someone, and we need to figure out why this happened, decided to play this card right now. We're talking about 800 radiation-polluted sites. Yes, time goes and distances us from the Chernobyl disaster, but before making such socially important and very difficult decisions, we have to go by law, and by law, that means that every three years, the state has to develop a program and the government has to assign DAV and the National Academy of Sciences to conduct radiation research and monitor radiation backgrounds in these locations. That's why today we, the national MPs who represent these 11 areas, even the registered decree, where both the "Serves of the People" and the factions of the "Fatherland" and the "Trust" groups, have signed up for virtually all factions and groups. We urge Kabmin to withdraw this draft decree until the end of the war. Next. After the end of the war, after the victory of Ukraine, radiation research was carried out according to valid legislation in these 800 locations by the forces of the Academy of Sciences and the State Agency for the Management of the Aliens Zone. Next. On the basis of these studies, to develop a project, to have a public discussion with people in these 11 areas, in these communities, particularly in Žitomirščina, where the most affected areas of the Chernobyl disaster have been affected. And only after that will you make the right decisions. We must act by law and conscience. And now it seems that some officials have decided to deprive the constitutional rights and social guarantees of our Chernobyl people, people who are really being treated and suffering from oncosa. And Zitomirščina number one after oncosa in Ukraine, and Ukraine number one in Europe, and this is the direct result of the Chernobyl disaster. Therefore, we do not have the moral right to leave these people today without the assured social support of the State. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u133	Heroic glory! Thank you. Please, Motovlovec, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u134	I'm asking you to change the way the bill is being considered today. I ask that the following laws be removed from the agenda according to the list: 8138 on investment babysitters, 9079 on the State Reserve Act, 8395 on social standards and public social guarantees. I ask you to clear the agenda of Act 9306 – on the harmonization of changes to the Ukrainian Procedural Code. I ask that Bill 9358 be removed – to ensure the safety of citizens under military conditions. Put this question to a vote and change the order of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand Andri Viktorovich's offer? Let's vote it out, then. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, what do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u136	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have a big request: one of these lists is to exclude 9358 from the bomb shelters. I understand, but let's vote it separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u137	One second. We agreed to just give the commission to the committee. As we can. Look, we agreed on the Conciliation Board that I would give the commission to the committee, I gave the commission to the committee, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Arthur Volodymyrovich, according to Bill 9358, we agreed on the Conciliation that I would give the commission to the committee. We can't look at him without a committee, Arthur. Why? No, I'm making an offer that Andrew Viktorovich made. Please make a decision. I don't know. Dear colleagues, I'm putting Motovilov's proposal to clear the agenda for today's drafts, which he called. Dear colleagues, please. I'm betting on the offer of Motovilovist Andrija Viktorovich. People's deputies, please vote. The point of the proposal is to remove 9358, 9306, 9306-1, 8395, 8138 and 9079 from the agenda today. Right, Andry Viktorovich? I'll put this motion to the vote. Please vote. [[12:19:48]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Well, that's not acceptable, so let's go as we go, dear colleagues, but as agreed, at some point we'll finish the day-to-day discussion. Let's go. Then the next bill 5353, 5353-1, 5353-d. I'm going to propose that we look at these issues in a nutshell. What else? What? Motovlover, another offer? Please, Andrew Viktorovich, let's not go into this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u138	I ask you to put the vote again. Remove the following bills: 8138, 9079, 8395, 9306. All of it. These are the laws that will be put into the cleaning of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make this offer. Please vote. [[12:21:08]] For 251 Decision taken. Let's move on then. Next bill 5353, 5353-1, 5353-d. This is a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to establish the procedure for determining the country of origin of the goods in accordance with the Customs Code of the European Union and to ensure the implementation of Ukraine's free trade agreements. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:21:53]] For 224 Decision taken. Two, two, against, can we vote? Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, let's do two-for-two-again. People were preparing. Please two in, two in, two in. Kowalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u140	Please pass the word to Gethmansev Daniel.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u141	Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, we need a bill that deals with the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to European Union legislation in determining non-preferential origin in imports/exports of goods to Ukraine. The bill adopted unanimously on the committee does not create any controversy, so please support both on the basis and in general, as decided by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u143	Please, Ustinova Alexander Yurievna, the Voice faction. Take the pass, I don't see who, my friends. Well, that's hard, isn't it? Iron, please, Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, we don't often have something positive going on at the customs office. That's just the nice exception. This is a bill that has really been drafted by our committee, it agrees with our international partners. I hope that as soon as Ukraine becomes a member of the EU, we will become the external customs border of the European Union. And this bill should not cause any controversy. So, of course, we will support him. And since we discussed it on the committee, it can be voted on both the basis and the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u145	Please, Eugene, do I understand? "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, for simplicity, which means committeework. For two years there is a government draft law registered in the Supreme Council, an adaptation of the Customs Code of the European Union to the Customs Code of Ukraine. Many minds needed to be made to adapt. But tell me about it, please, every day the Russian Federation kills our citizens, every minute they die, our soldiers die. What are we doing economically to weaken the Russian Federation? So you're sitting in the hall, national deputies, you think you've done everything you can to make the economic capabilities of the Russian Federation diminish? I'm very clear that if we don't immediately introduce rules in the Customs Code concerning the origins of goods coming from Russia and Belarus under the cover of third countries, for example oil and petroleum products through Turkey, the scraped gas seems to come from Kazakhstan. It is necessary that we, in the committee, clearly work out the rules, introduce them into the Customs Code in order for customs to have the right not only to require a certificate of origin of goods, but also documents that confirm the entire chain of supply of goods from the manufacturer. If we don't, we're giving our hands the opportunity to consume these goods, to pay in the budget of the Russian Federation, and thus to enable us to kill our people. So, please, let's think about what really economic laws to weaken Russia, not just to implement the standards that had to be done two years ago, at least. We really need to support this bill, but we also need to work on the most important things, what we need to work on right now, and I'm asking everyone to pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this bill, we're moving on to a decision, we're asking the people's deputies to take their seats. I propose that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code should be adopted in accordance with the Customs Code on Free Trade (Registration No. 5353-d). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:27:01]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, just on the ground? Well, we can, can't we? We can. I'm going to make an offer to take it in general, taking into account the suggestions. The committee's proposals are here, aren't they? Then adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical legal amendments, Bill 5353 of the Draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to bring the country of origin into line with the Customs Code of the European Union and to ensure the implementation of Ukraine's free trade agreements. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:27:52]] For 259. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. The next question, 9491, is the Draft Decision on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Georgia, Salome Zurabishvili, and the Parliaments of the member states of the European Union on the need to carry out a humanitarian act and pardon the third President of Georgia (2004-2013), citizen of Ukraine, Miheil Nikolosovich Saakashvili. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:28:38]] For 257 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:28:58]] For 232 Decision taken. I invite you to the words of Ukrainian national deputy Arahami David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! Today, we have recently seen a video conference with Mikhail Nicolosovich Saakashvili, a Ukrainian citizen, as he looks in prison. This cannot even be called Auschwitz or Buchenwald. It actually looks like they're just trying to get him killed right now. This is our Ukrainian citizen, this is a high-ranking Ukrainian, deliberate accusations, political persecution, we know all of it. We know how the Georgian authorities are now restoring the airline to the aggressor country. We know how many Russians discovered bank accounts in Georgian banks. We know that in every almost allegory of avoiding sanctions is Georgia, as a country, unfortunately, though Georgian our brothers, you know I'm from Georgia. And we see a lot of Georgians as a nation actually helping Ukrainians and Ukraine and contributing. Sadly, though, the Georgian authorities are doing everything the other way around. Therefore, we register this decree with one goal: to remind again, Mrs. Salome Georgian President, she recently pardoned Nika Guaramia, by the way, he was visiting our Parliament today as a political prisoner. In fact, there were pressures on freedom of speech. Today our second step towards Mr. Michael, we want to urge and take a decision. And to call on parliaments and all other European countries to adopt similar resolutions and so we'll just make this, you know, an international coalition to save Mr. Michael. That's what I'm stressing, purely humanitarian right now, is the last attempt to save Michael, because what we see in these videos right now, we just understand where this is going.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u149	Thank you, David Georgiyovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes. Yes, please. Then write down the factions that you want: two in favour, two in opposition. Please give the word to Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u151	Samantha Anatolyevna, please. Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u152	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, I had the honor of working with the President of Georgia, a citizen of Ukraine, Michael Saakashvili. But now not only about him, but now about the situation left by Georgia during the great invasion, Russia’s great war on Ukraine, and I am very sad to see today how softly and willingly Georgia is occupied by the Russian Federation, by Russian citizens who are not just transiting further into European countries, to the countries of the East, leaving their money there, starting their business, but are sitting in Georgia and thus actually creating an absolutely soft occupation. I'm sorry that the people of Georgia are leading themselves in a different way, and I'm glad that the people of Georgia are leading them differently from the authorities, which, apart from supporting sanctions and not all categories, today supports Ukraine. I thank every Georgian for his humanitarian assistance. I thank every Georgian and Georgian legion who today fights in our ranks of the Defense Force and courageously defends every inch of Ukrainian land because we're used to knowing and kicking out, and living that it's a brotherly nation, a sisterly nation, and we've never been apart in times of opposition to common aggressors and threats. I am very sorry that Tbilisi began its flights to Moscow. And I'm sorry to hear from their representatives that this flight actually happens once a day, you know, it's rare. I'm sorry that they didn't introduce those sanctions after the sanctions, and the flights continue to take place in Moscow. So today, by voting for the pardon of Michael Saakashvili and, in fact, the return to Ukraine, because he is a Ukrainian citizen today, we need to understand clearly that we are. to understand that we are losing Georgia as a partner, as a brother, and as a country that has also opposed the Russian Federation for millions of its people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u153	Please, Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavsky, "Serve of the People" faction. Please, Maxim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u154	I'd like to give the floor to the people's representative of Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u155	Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u156	Not that much of a Feder, but. Dear colleagues, I've never been a supporter of Michael Saakashvili, I've already severely criticized him, but now it doesn't matter. It's an open murder of a brutal, prolonged, deliberate murder of Michael Saakashvili, and it's demonstrated in the eyes of the world as evidence that people can ignore the normal standards of humanism. This is our duty as Ukrainian citizens, our duty as Ukrainian authorities to defend a Ukrainian citizen. Our Constitution requires that. I believe that when there was a war in 2008, Ukraine, without hesitation, came to the aid of the Georgian people. I think that's, that's the reason we're being heard by the Georgian people, that the Georgian authorities hear us, that we're being heard by all of Georgia, that we have the right to address them on this very request, and that's because they're our citizen. I'm asking everyone to press the green "yes" button and I'm asking you to come help Miho Nikolosovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u157	Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Pottery, that's what I understand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u158	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I know Michael Saakashvili personally, and I have had very different relationships with him. With Saakashvili's politics, it's not about Saakashvili. It's about Saakashvili, a citizen of Saakashvili, who is murdered by the Georgian authorities. He kills and tortures him for the joy of Putin, because the only person who rejoices when he sees Saakashvili die in our eyes is Putin. And a Georgian dream called what turned into a Kremlin dream is what Putin ordered. And in general, my friends, it's not even Saakashvili questions, it's independent Georgia that's being destroyed in our eyes with you, it's the occupation of Georgia by Russia, and we have to talk about it, and we have to help the Georgian people stop it. Friends, another big holiday today is Bastille Day. I certainly welcome France (), but I want to speak to the Georgians now, () when you take your Bastille, otherwise you will lose your country. [[speak French]] [[speak Georgian]] (Front) [[speak Georgian]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u159	Please give the word to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, Miho Saakashvili is the former President of Georgia, but he is an active citizen of Ukraine. And what we're making right now is important, that's right, but that's not enough. Dear friends, all of us today in the matter of the liberation of Michael Saakashvili are united, we need to raise all the possibilities of Ukraine, not only the decisions, we need to raise the whole of our European community, our Western friends immediately, just to unite the whole world in order to help free Michael Saakashvili. It's not just a political matter, it's not just a political debate, it's part of the war that the Russian Federation is waging against the whole free world. Michael Saakashvili is a symbol of freedom. And if we Ukrainians don't release him, it'll be our fault. We need to get together and get him out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, let's really do everything we can to make sure that our decision is not declarative, but it has led to the necessary result, and in the near future we have had the opportunity to see our Ukrainian citizen, Michael Nikolosovich Saakashvili, in Ukraine, because Ukraine is not abandoning its own. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to accept, in general, the proposals of the Committee and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Georgia, Salome Zurabishvili, and the Parliaments of the European Union on the need to implement the humanitarian act and pardon the third President of Georgia for 2004-2013, Ukrainian citizen, Michael Nikolosovich Saakashvili (registration number of draft regulation 9491). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:40:27]] For 285 Decision taken. Guys, let's move on. 9208. This is a draft regulation amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible violations of Ukrainian legislation in the area of obtaining, distributing, transporting, storing, using for the purpose of humanitarian and other assistance, as well as the ineffective use of State property that may be used for the temporary placement of internally displaced persons and the provision of other needs of the State. (Registration No. 9208) I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:41:18]] For 240 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're going to vote now, I'll say it again. Can we not discuss this? No, can't we? Dear colleagues, then sign up: two in favor, two in favour. Please, Viátrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u162	Please give Sofia to Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u163	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u164	What can the authorities do for a year and a half after the start of a full - scale invasion? Destroying, closing and driving Lviv's Voluntary Kitchen out of its premises is an organization that provides food for almost 10 years. It is rare to find at least one brigade that has not received dry bolus, soups, sausages, porridges, gingermeals, and gingermeals from the Lviv Volunteer’s kitchen. And now they're being kicked out of the room, cut off their water and electricity in Lviv, on account of what needs to be done. Another major theft, accompanied by volunteers in the Lviv volunteer kitchen, provides no alternative adapted, normal room for their work. What's more, today I got a call from a member of the military administration, and he pointed out that the volunteers are lying, that the volunteers are somehow organizing the process, they have, excuse me, some kind of anti-sanitary thing, and in general, "Who needs it, because the Armed Forces are providing food?".. This is how I would like to see this executive representative, and I won't call him, because he might change his mind on the forerunner! Because it's not for volunteers to look for a place! Not the volunteers have something to ask for, but the state authorities, and especially the Lviv military administration, which is currently in the business of freeways, are supposed to help volunteers! Because these people for the tenth year are providing the army against all kinds of problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, please, the Venislav Feder Volodymyrovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u166	Please give the floor to national deputy Kozir Sergey Vyacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u167	Please, Sergey Viacheslavovich Kozir.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u168	Good afternoon, colleagues! Really, please support my decision. This is really a technical decision, and there's been an application to exclude a member of the interim commission of inquiry from the Voice party, so I'm asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u169	Thank you. Please, Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u170	Please give Sergey Rudik a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u171	Sergei Jaroslavovich Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, can anyone remember the circumstances under which this temporary commission of inquiry was created? The whole country was shocked by the fact that the plots in Zaporozhye region by wagons and tons were spreading what all of Europe was giving to our settlers, to people who had suffered from the aggression of the cod. In this room in September, a commission was set up with a loud applause to put a dot on the question of who, how much, and to do everything possible within the framework of current legislation to bring these underhumans to criminal responsibility. The commission has been working for nine months, perhaps the tenth, and ask most of this commission, have they brought someone to criminal responsibility in the Zaporozhye area for the theft of tons and wagons? How many criminal cases have been opened and brought to justice? Mr. TSK's head, can you answer how you're gonna answer the lines? And there's no time on the board to find out who stole what people were picking up in Europe, because the main task of the commission is to take the property of the unions, take the property to sanatoriums, sell it to their loved ones for nothing, and tell them that it was. The whole civilized world is looking at what the authorities are doing after the persecution of professional leaders, and they're terrified, and people are waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft regulation amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order "On the establishment of a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible violations of Ukrainian legislation in the area of obtaining, distributing, transporting, storing, targeting humanitarian and other assistance, as well as the inefficient use of state property, which may be used to temporarily deploy internally displaced persons and to provide other needs of the State (Registration No. 9208). Ready to vote? Ladies and gentlemen, I request that the National Deputies vote. [[12:48:08]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill, we agreed, without discussion, is 9354, this is a draft law on the creation of a garden-parked art monument to the state-wide meaning of “Migiriya”. I therefore propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the Creation of Garden and Park Art (Registration No. 9354). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:48:50]] For 241 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. The next bill, we also have no one to amend, is 5229, a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation (as regards the protection of the right to property and other immovable property rights belonging to children and sub-departmental persons). I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation (to ensure the protection of property rights and other immovable property rights belonging to children and subordinates) (project registration number 5229). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:49:43]] For 260 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. The next, 9287, is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the order of adoption of an inheritance. I'm proposing to include Bill 9287 in the agenda of the day. Please vote. [[12:50:14]] For 252 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:50:35]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss whether we can accept it? Yes. Then please, Francis Igor Pavlovich. Presentation of the bill, then we write: two in favour, two in opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u174	Congratulations, colleagues. These are two bills, one of which is inherently related to the other. The next bill will be the same with regard to amendments to the Civil Code. What is the question of these two bills? Listen carefully, for this includes inheritance for our dead, not just military, but all those killed in this war. To date, one of the bills we've changed a little bit about setting up a place for the discovery of an inheritance, taking into account the corresponding positions, including key norms in the body of the Civil Code. We need to fix this to some extent, because war will not always be, and the rules on the location of the discovery of an inheritance in the temporarily occupied territories need to be transferred to the Transitional Positions of the Civil Code. This is part of this law. The second very important part of this law is the moment when in the testimony of a person's death, the date of the testimony, for example, is May 23rd, and the date of death of a man May 22nd. They just found the man in the remains and they did a DNA test by setting up his person. But her heirs are deprived of a six - month sentence to apply for an inheritance. We can't ignore the rights of our people, and we're correcting this situation, we're determining that for such people, the date of death will be considered the date of the discovery of the inheritance from the moment of the death certificate. Colleagues, I very much ask you to respond consciously to these two bills and to the maximum support of votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u175	Thank you. Please, let's move on. Please sign up: two in favour, two in favor, against the honourable colleagues. Please give the floor to the national MP Nicorak Irina Petrovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u176	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u177	Please, Honcharenko Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u178	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. The very important bills, I also urge all of them to support them, to vote. Regrettably, the need for these bills, including that war, which continues in Ukraine, is taking the lives of our best. But, my friends, it is very important for us here in Parliament to lead our own front during this war, and this is the adoption of such laws to make life easier for the citizens. But it's very important that we do this work in every session in the interests of our military. Unfortunately, in these two days, we can say that we can boast about making decisions that are already targeted at the military, and we cannot. I am addressing our leadership of the Supreme Council. Let us make sure that at each meeting there is a necessary, well, at least one bill that works for our military personnel. Friends, such bills in Parliament are many: a bill on demobilization after 18 months of service (the most necessary bill, let's look at); a bill on the demobilization of the first and second groups. We have a paradoxical situation where, after the first-second group's disability, we can get out of the ranks of the Armed Forces, and the first-second group's disability itself cannot be released, and there are people who have volunteered a year and a half ago despite their disability, but they can't go on forever. They're really invalids of group I and II. Let's accept that. Law 8009, which we already voted with you more than two months ago, has not yet been signed by the President. It is the Law on the Liberation of the Armed Forces of those whose relatives and loved ones died during a full - scale invasion. Guys, I just asked you a few questions. We work for the military every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u179	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Sternichuk Valery Alexanderovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u180	Colleagues, please pass the word to Igor Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u181	Please, Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u182	Thank you, colleagues, for seeing this law. I just took the word exclusively for the main purpose. While he was talking, let's go. People did not understand the date of death. Just make sure it's clear. A man was killed. She died, and you didn't find her, but you found her, and the DNA expert did and found out that she died in May of the 22nd. But they did it now, and the death certificate was issued on May 23rd. In the Civil Code, the moment of the discovery of an inheritance from the moment of death. And it turns out that six months, when heirs have the right to apply for an inheritance and receive that inheritance, have passed. So for such cases, we need to establish that the moment of the discovery of the inheritance will be from the moment the witness is given, not from the actual death of the individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion, we are moving on to making a decision. Dear friends, I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the order of adoption of an inheritance (registration number 9287). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:57:26]] For 257 Decision taken. Please, Procedural Guy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, yesterday we voted in the first reading of 9311-1d and technically forgot to put the deadlines short. I very much ask you to put this motion to the vote and support it so that we can take it to the hall, at the next meeting, already prepared for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, there is such an offer, let's put the proposal to shorten the lines to the second reading by 9311-1d. I'll bet you a vote, please. [[12:58:29]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. Please prepare for the second reading so that we can bring it in. The next bill, 9288, we agreed without discussion, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Civil Code to improve the order of adoption of an inheritance. I'm proposing to include Bill 9288 in the agenda of the day. Please vote. [[12:59:05]] For 249 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Civil Code to improve the order of acceptance of an inheritance (registration number 9288). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:34]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following bills, too, no discussion, 5473, 5473-1, 5473-d. Without discussion, we agreed, so I immediately propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Market Surveillance and Non-Food Control on the settlement of certain issues of market surveillance and the responsibility of operators (registration number 5473-d). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:00:25]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill, the draft law on combating tuberculosis in Ukraine, is the second reading. Can we get to the vote now? Dear colleagues, we're told we're going to the polls right now. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the Control of Tuberculosis in Ukraine (registration No. 9147). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:01:09]] For 241 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Show me the factions, please. The next bill, honourable colleagues, 7029 is a bill amending some Ukrainian laws to simplify the management of multi-family buildings. Dear colleagues, we've agreed on this for three minutes, and we're voting. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u186	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland faction, head of the All-Ukrainian Association of Housing Owners. Dear colleagues, me and our faction will vote and support this bill. We urge everyone to do the same. I can explain quickly why. Our position with regard to FSB is not fundamentally changing. On the one hand, we realize that this is some form of decision-making in the management of multi-family homes, and this is very important to millions of our inhabitants today. On the other hand, I've been repeating and repeating, and I'm underlining that this institution in itself is not going to bring about a comprehensive programme of a comprehensive national priority to modernize an outdated housing fund. Please forget that in itself, these social organizations and these people are underfunded, they can make their own capital repairs and renovations. In this context, this bill certainly now allows for certain decisions that have been stalled recently in the first since many people left Ukraine. But, on the other hand, I'm focusing primarily on the ruling monocoalysm of Mrs. Helen Schulak, Mr. David Arahamaia, your government has failed to carry out the tasks that we have given him with you, so far there is no state-level energy-generating program for the housing fund, Mrs. Oleno, notice, this is a professional ministry. For a year and a half, how would this national program come about? You have to spend money on it, you have to help people become really effective managers and owners of their housing fund to those who are capable of it. So I will not waste time, please support, but please listen to my advice and comments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished our performances. I'm putting a decision to the vote. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the simplification of the management of apartment buildings (registration No. 7029). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:27]] For 245 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! Dear colleagues, the next Bill 9358 does not yet have a committee decision. I repeat my assignment. Arthur Volodymyrovich, I repeat my assignment, please gather and take a look. It's a deal, isn't it? Let's move on. Next bill, 7588. Dear fellows, will anyone be able to put up the papers? Is anybody coming? Who? Can we put it to a vote? Can we put it to a vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u188	Julia Volodymyrna, will you? Pussychuk, please. Which one of you will it be? Let's just put it this way, except for Julia Volodymyrna and, well, apart from the faction of Fatherland, who's going to insist on their amendments? No one will. I thank you for this position. So please. Who's it gonna be? Julia Volodymyrna? It's going to be a puzichuk, isn't it? Puzichuk Andry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u189	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, 7588 is a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u190	The repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u191	Which we're taking with you for a second consideration. This bill creates risks for the State to lose significant areas of agricultural land and provides preconditions for the arbitrary redistribution of land by hand in the absence of defined criteria and the right of such redistribution. What is proposed? Turn state-owned enterprises into AT and TT with the transformation of the right of permanent use into a lease of 50 years, i.e. the lifting of guarantees for the preservation of the property rights of the State of Ukraine on land of agricultural destination. If you don't mind, let the committee head comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u192	Mr. Andrew, it's very difficult to comment. I'm asking you to start with your text, which is written on paper, from the number of the amendment you're making, because it's very difficult to comment on general things. It's a legislative process, it has rules. I'm going to ask you what number the amendment was to comment on something? Mr. Andrey, please tell me the number of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u193	Wait a second. Table now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u194	Well, they just gave you a table. Why did you take that minute? Mr. Andrey, do you have any amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u195	I've got some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u196	I'm asking for a number. Well, we don't have time to watch while you're looking at the number of the amendment. Mr. Puziyczuk, are you correct? For the fifth time, I ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u197	22.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u198	22 revisions. We're looking now. It was you, look, that you ate the second minute, so we didn’t get to the repair number. Maybe they're not that important, Mr. Andrew? 22, is that his amendment? That's Haida's correction. What? Do you have a missing package of table materials? Mr. Andrew, be careful. It's something with health, I guess. Dear colleagues, Mr. Andrew, do you have any? There was a package of materials. Look, you've already used two minutes. Can I get an amendment number for the third minute that you've already started reporting? 36, this is his amendment, look. Now we're going to see if this is your amendment. Thirty-six of your repairs. Oh, 32. Mr. Puziyczuk's 32th amendment is rejected by the committee. I'm betting on a vote of 32 amendments. Please vote. [[13:09:05]] That's not a decision for 33. That's too bad. Please, Mr. Andrey, the number of the next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u199	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 36th Amendment. Dear colleagues, can you please tell me that I am also addressing the head of the committee, and is there any reason to support this bill today? The war has already reduced the area of agricultural land. The government proposes that the right of permanent use be completely discontinued by distributing the land on private leases and also with the right to transfer it to a suborendum. So I'm just asking the committee head to explain the purpose of adopting this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u200	See, the committee head will explain the amendment. Your general tablecloths had to be found on the committee. Now we're in the hall to follow the important and systemic changes that you've made. This is a separate legislative initiative. So, please, there are only 36 amendments to what to say? She's been rejected by the committee. Thank you. Puzichuk's 36th amendment (refused by the committee), please vote. [[13:10:32]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number, Andrew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u201	39th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u202	39th, that's it. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I would like to state that this bill was passed in violation of the Rules, including at a committee meeting. You said we should have discussed it. Indeed, according to the Committee’s Law, the committee should have discussed each amendment and voted. But unfortunately, it didn't happen, but it did change the table that was sent to the deputies to vote, and the table that was published on the website. And in support of my words, this can be confirmed by our colleague from the Group For the Future, Rudik, Sergey Rudik, who was in violation of the Rules, who refused to allow MPs to speak, to stand down on the bill. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u204	The 39th Amendment of Puzichuk was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:11:53]] For-30 39 Puzichuk correction rejected. Next amendment. Please, Mr. Puziyczuk, correct number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u205	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I've got another 42th amendment. Mr. Head, unfortunately, as was the case at the committee meeting, you are now not allowing our colleague Sergio Rudik to express his position on the bill to the man who is currently in the Armed Forces. Listen, on the committee, we stood up for the fact that today our military, who are in the ranks of the Armed Forces, in the lavas of other military formations, must have the right to land by two hectares per hectare, by half a hectare, but in order for people to have the opportunity to return and work on their land after the war is over. So you give the officer, our colleague, the opportunity to express your position, Mr. Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u206	Look, Mr. Andrew, I may be able to tell you the news: everything that is done in the Supreme Council is done according to a book called the Rules. You've been given it in the first place, you have to carry it with you. So I'm asking you very much, I can only give my word on second reading to the author of the amendments. When Mr. Ruddick is the author of his amendments, I'll be happy to give it to him. And just to put it that way, Parliament may have a bit of a procedural approach to these issues. I put 42 Puzichuk's amendment, it's rejected. Please vote. [[13:13:52]] For-23 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. What's the next correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u207	Mr. Head, next amendment is 45th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u208	45th, please. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u209	Ruslan Alexiyovich, but Parliament is still a place for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u210	But not for the market. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u211	And for a professional discussion of drafts. And we're talking to you about simple things. Today, there are categories, depending on our crops. To date, much of the agricultural land has been occupied. Much of the agricultural land is now replaced. People lost their business. And it's probably a function of the state to allow people working in occupied areas to work on state property land today without competitions, without auctions. If the organization had a thousand hectares there, give them a chance from the state land 300 to 500 hectares to work. Where's the state's position?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u212	Puzichuk's 45th Amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:15:32]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Next, please, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u213	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. My next amendment number 51. Ruslan Alexiyovich, see if you think that the market for defending the interests of the military during the war? So we're asking for a simple offer to give the land to our military, who are today defending our land and who are now standing for our land, and which each day, three feet per meter, step by step, are conquering our land. This was the norm until February 24, and it was the norm that allowed people to get 2 acres [2 ha] of agricultural land free of charge. Unfortunately, this rule has been halted. So we ask and insist that this bill be sent back to read so that we can make constructive proposals for the benefit of our military personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u214	Mr. Andrew, you can tell me anything! Your 51st amendment instead of a coma, put the parentheses. So don't tell me how big you are here for the country and the military. I bet 51 the amendment, it's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:17:08]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Mr. Andrey, what's your next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u215	Dear Head, next amendment 54. Ruslan Alexiyovich, we are indeed representatives of the Ukrainian people in Parliament, and this is our job, it is our duty to defend people, to defend their interests. And what we're talking about today with regard to agrarians is exactly what we need to think about today and create conditions, and allow people to work when the government, when the President is talking about the relocation of enterprises, is probably referring to the relocation of agrarian enterprises. Those businesses that are today. the lands that are occupied. In order for people to be able to relocating, they need to be able to work on earth today, and for that, the state has land, has the resources to help the agrarians from the occupied territories.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u216	54 Puzichuk correction. Declined by the committee. Please vote. [[13:18:29]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u217	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have 57 amendments. And yet I am addressing the head of the committee and asking for a professional discussion on a bill that is of great concern to society today: as military, as agrarian, as a scientist. Dear colleagues, this bill stipulates that universities, agrarian universities, will have a maximum of 100 acres [100 ha] of land. For example, Bilocerk University of Agriculture has seven colleges. If we adopt this bill, children, the students will probably see the earth only on television and culture in photographs. So in any case, this bill can't be adopted, it has to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u218	57 Puzichuk correction. Declined. Please vote. [[13:19:53]] For-12. The decision is not taken. Please, what's next? Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u219	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Next amendment number 60. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, let's get back to a constructive professional discussion today. See what the bill proposes? The bill proposes to remove land from the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. What is the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences today? This is 43 universities. The total number at the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences is 15,000 300 workers, including 3,000 190 scientists, 437 doctors of science, and 1,453 candidates of science. It's this structure that's been working for over 150 years, it's a scientific unique experience, it's a science school that we can't do today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u220	60 revisions, Puziczuka, rejected. Please vote. [[13:21:21]] For -14 The decision is not taken. What's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u221	63rd. Dear colleagues, I will continue. Today, nearly 9,000 workers work at the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences in research enterprises. And unfortunately, when we're talking about 43 institutions and 15,000 people working, I want to say that the state is providing less than 30 percent of science budget funding today, and 70 percent of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences is making money on land that is constantly being used. So, dear colleagues, let's not kill Ukrainian science today, agrarian science, because the agrarian sector is the basis of our economy today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u222	63 Puzichuk correction. It's rejected. Please vote. [[13:22:40]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u223	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have another 66.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u224	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear colleagues, compared with the previous second reading, the bill has become even more radical and uncompromising. We see with you that the main purpose of this bill is global land redistribution. Once again, the steady use of the land of state-owned property is minimized. A direct text indicates that not more than 100 hectares [100 ha] are educational establishments. It's excluded from the constant use of land for scientific and scientific research purposes. Explain, well, how can there be science and pay rent? Well, how can you run a scientific activity financed by the state budget and have the same approach to them as for commercials?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u226	66. Amendment of the authorship of Puziychuk. Declined by the committee. Please vote. [[13:24:10]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Please, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u227	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Next amendment number 69.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u228	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, let's take a look at this bill and analyze the risks it poses to the state. First. It envisions the transformation of state-owned enterprises into AT and TT with the transformation of the right of permanent use into rental. Once again, this cancels any guarantees of the State's right to property of the Ukrainian people to the state's agricultural lands that are. is the right of permanent use in state-owned enterprises today. The other one. It's a risk of obtaining state agricultural land for any one, including foreigners. You don't pass it on to the military, but you're creating prerequisites for receiving Ukrainian land from foreigners.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u230	Puzichuk's amendment was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:37]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Please, next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u231	Dear Head, I'm asking you to make a signal vote, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u232	We're doing it in the beginning, if you don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u233	Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u234	Please, next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u235	Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u236	Next amendment, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u237	Look, the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u238	You don't have any amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u239	Yes, I have an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u240	Please give the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u241	Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u242	Please correct. Repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u243	Ruslan Alexiyovich, Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u244	Repair number. You don't have an amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u245	Amendment number 72.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u246	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u247	Ruslan Alexiyovich, the Supreme Council has the right to hold plenary meetings when there are 226 deputies, this is the Rules. Today, there are no 226 deputies in the hall. So we have no reason to continue the plenary session with you now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u248	Please, correct number, 72?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u249	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 72 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u250	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u251	Once again, our current meeting is not valid, there are no 226 deputies present.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, I'm putting 72 Puzichuk's amendment to the vote. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:27:01]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Next. Next number, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u253	Dear Chairman, next amendment 75. But, Ruslan Alexiyovich, we see that at present there are no more than 60 deputies in the Supreme Council Hall. We see this from the results of the vote, so we don't have the authority to continue the plenary session right now. Dear Head, that is a completely empty hall, how can we now discuss the bill with you and make any decisions. We've got, well, the "Race" channel in the video is going to be showing today's meeting. All right, the meetings will show at night. But, Your Honor, let's take a break now and we'll continue to work with you on the amendments, discuss the bill when there's 226 in the hall, and we'll have a quorum and authorization. That is why we are doing such a thing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u254	75 Puzichuk's correction, it's rejected. Please vote. [[13:28:28]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Please, next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u255	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. My next 78. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, there is now an incredibly important bill in the empty hall, a bill that actually touches every citizen of the country. This is a matter of national lands, especially valuable lands. The idea is that as a result of the adoption of this bill, our military personnel will lose the opportunity to obtain land for agricultural purposes. If this bill is rejected, the "Fatherland" faction will initiate a bill, initiate changes so that our military personnel will have the right to receive the land of agriculture, as was the case earlier when the participants of the ATO, and in fact the wars from 2014 to 2022.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u256	78 Puzichuk correction. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:29:57]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Please, what's the next amendment, Mr. Andrey?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u257	78th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u258	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u259	78th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u260	And we just voted it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u261	81st.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u262	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u263	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u264	I'm watching your work, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u265	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, if you could just follow the quorum in the Supreme Council right now, we'd have 226 deputies. We worked hard, discussed an important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u266	People can't stand you, you're so powerful in your thoughts that it's simple. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u267	Ruslan Alexiyovich, we stand for the state's positions, the position of citizens, the position of the Ukrainian business and the position of our military. Dear colleagues, what are the standards in this bill? See, now a window of opportunity is being created to transfer land to a sub-nordinary without auctions. Today, by law, the land can be leased only from auctions of 20 acres [20 ha].
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u268	Fellow dignitaries, 81 correction of Puzichuk, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:31:27]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Please, Mr. Andrey, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u269	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for the great support of the "Serve of the People" of the Ukrainian people, but my amendment number 123 and I will continue. Dear colleagues, cancelling the permanent use of land for scientific and research purposes, will result in virtually deforestation, first of all, of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, which uses land for scientific and scientific research purposes. The removal, once again, by the government, without consent, of land at the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences of Ukraine to higher education institutions, which may leave 100 hectares. Well, tell me, what are you doing? What kind of agricultural experts will we have in the future? As we plan to develop an agricultural sector, where we show it on all international sites as one of the highest priorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, 123 amendments, by Timoshenko, Puziyczuk, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:32:57]] For the four of us. Your fan club is blowing something up. Please, Mr. Andrew, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u271	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. You're showing why the Servants of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u272	Tell me about the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u273	128th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u274	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u275	128 revisions. Look, respectable citizens, unfortunately, it's almost an empty hall. The "ministers of the people" are not ready to work today, not ready to debate, not ready to defend the interests of the Ukrainian people and an important bill. Dear colleagues, see what is being proposed in this bill. In fact, the concept now remains, as I pointed out, to transform state-owned enterprises into permanent leases. What did the drafters say? They pointed out that the adoption of the bill would give and fill the state budget. But in this case, no public budget is being filled.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u276	128 amendment, Puzichuk rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:34:26]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Please, Mr. Andrey, what's the next amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u277	134 revisions. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, what does this bill specifically change? The grounds for the creation and exercise of the right of permanent use of state and municipal agricultural land are changing. These are changes to articles 24 and 92 of the Ukraine Codex earth. State and municipal agricultural enterprises, institutions, and organizations can use state and municipal land exclusively for the construction and maintenance of immovable property. Also in cases of transfer to the permanent use of land removed from the continuous use of another state or municipal enterprise of institutions and organizations. In its original edition, for scientific research purposes, for educational purposes, and for the production of non-agricultural goods, the previous project edition excluded and excluded "good manufacturing".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, 134 amendments by Tymoshenko, Puziychuk Committee dismissed, please vote. [[13:35:56]] For-7. You see, you manage to convince people. Please, Mr. Andrey, next number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u279	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The next amendment is 144. Ruslan Alexiyovich, thank you for being here and working with Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u280	I always work.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u281	Yes, and you stand up for your interests. I very much hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u282	Yeah, I'll definitely support him. I hope you do, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u283	Dear colleagues, once again, the result of the adoption of this bill will be the deforestation of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, which uses land for scientific and scientific research purposes. What are we asking? We ask that we take into account our corrections and leave the earth to scientific institutions, leave the earth for the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, allow us to develop our Ukrainian science. Please support my corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u284	144 Puzichuk correction. She's been rejected by a committee, unfortunately. Please vote. [[13:37:18]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u285	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The next amendment is 151. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, this bill destroys the existing powerful scientific and research infrastructure that has been built and developed for over 150 years in Ukraine. This is the structure of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. Now, with the use of state-owned agricultural land, which is constantly being used by the scientific institutions of the academy, a comprehensive agricultural development is being done. Today it's 86 scientific institutions, think about it, 43 institutions, 86 institutions, including 10 national institutions, with the status of national, scientific centres.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u286	Everything? Okay. 151 Amendment of the authorship of Timoshenko, Puziychuk. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:38:48]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Please, Mr. Andrey, what's the repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u287	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. But look at how the support is increasing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u288	In geometric progress.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u289	Yeah. Next amendment 156. Dear colleagues, I will continue. Today, the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine includes 172 enterprises and 15,000 workers. In fact, the adoption of this bill will result in the de-termination of the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences. They will remove the entire earth, removing almost 100 percent of the earth. What does that mean? This means that during the war 15,000 workers will lose their jobs. It's an enormous burden on the state budget. They are people who will be unemployed, unable to support their families. It's going to be a social security fund, a unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u290	153 Puzichuk's correction, it's rejected. Please vote. [[13:40:18]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Mr. Andrey, what's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u291	156th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u292	156th. There you go. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u293	Thank you. The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, please respond to this question in an incredibly responsible and serious manner, because indeed, if we accept this bill, unfortunately, if it happens that the "ministers of the people" vote for it, the State will indeed lose hundreds of thousands of hectares of land. The land is planned to be taken to the Ministry of Defense, and the land is planned to be taken to the Penitentiary Service. The Penitentiary Service is a special structure in which our citizens are punished, but these lands allow people to work, these lands allow prisoners today to earn money, accumulate funds, and this is actually the first capital that a person has after being released from prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u294	156 The Committee rejected the amendment by Tymoshenko, Puziyczuk. Please vote. [[13:41:47]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u295	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, my next amendment is 161. Dear colleagues, today at the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences, 432 thousand hectares [432 thousand ha] of land are in constant use. This is the land that they really use for scientific and scientific research purposes. Last year, in December, Parliament voted to establish a Temporary Commission of Inquiry to investigate activities and analyse the activities of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. What can be noted? Yes, indeed, in the academy, not everything is ideal, there are businesses that are harmful. But the vast majority of institutions, they do scientific work. The vast majority of research stations are effective, producing unique Ukrainian varieties of plants.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u296	Next amendment. 161th, I'm sorry, 161th amendment, I'm sorry, it was rejected by the committee. Please vote. I'm sorry. 161 revisions. [[13:43:22]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u297	Thank you. Dear Chairman, my next amendment is 166. Dear colleagues, look, I would like to point out on another occasion and point out that this bill does not refer to any land of agricultural destination, but rather to the valuable land of agricultural assignment. 150 years ago, the National Academy of Sciences was created in such a way that it is today the land that enters different climate zones. These are unique, especially valuable, lands where scientific activity is taking place. These are scientific lands where, in addition to producing products, large tribes of Ukrainian scientists worldwide have grown — doctors of science, candidates of science. Today scientists at the National Academy of Sciences teach in many universities around the world. We don't have to do this today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u298	166 Amendment of the authorship of Timoshenko, Puziychuk. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:44:53]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Please, Mr. Andrey, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u299	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The next amendment is 171th. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm asking you to give the committee head an opportunity to explain simple things to me, our colleagues from Fatherland, from other factions, like an agrarian committee, a profile committee, sees agrarian science in the future in Ukraine. Say, please, it's not just vegetation, it's within the National Academy of Sciences that are unique institutions that do big cattle doing other animals. How can agricultural research exist today, and how can there be unique institutions without land? At what and how, then, will the agrarian committee see and feed and support animals? Well, they eat what's grown on the ground, they don't eat air. Mr. Hades, explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u300	171 Puzichuk's correction, it's rejected. Please vote. [[13:46:23]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Please, Mr. Andrey, what's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u301	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. My next amendment is 178th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u302	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u303	Mr. Head, I am sure that the citizens of Ukraine, the viewers of the Council TV channel, are very interested in hearing the position of the head of a professional agrarian committee to comment on how he sees development in Ukraine -- well, it's a global, conceptual bill -- as he sees how it's going to develop, more precisely, not to develop; the bill will not evolve, and in fact lead to the destruction of Ukrainian science. But, Mr. Haida, explain how agricultural science will exist in Ukraine. How Will Universities Exist? How will there be an animal complex and institutions that work in the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences? Well, you take the land, all right. What will you do with the animals? How will they feed the animals where they will take the food? Explain! Well, it's a simple question.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u304	178 Amendment of the authorship of Timoshenko, Puziychuk. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:47:50]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Please, what's next, Mr. Andrey?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u305	Ruslan Alexiyovich, my next amendment to 184. And yet, Mr. Head, let's talk about giving land, agricultural land to Ukrainian military personnel. That's an important question. This is a matter of the military. You know, for today, a lot of the mobilized are the boys, the men in the countryside. It's agriculture, it's tractors, it's mechanics, who are protecting the country in the ranks of the Armed Forces today. And they have exactly the right to have the state give them 2 hectares of land, per hectare, 50 cents. But when the boys return to their homes, they should have the right to get land and work on it for the future of Ukraine, for the future of their families. Well, Mr. Head, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u306	Look, I can comment. Let's take off your copier-made repairs and put those 3-4 amendments that apply to the military, so that we don't waste time and respect each other. I think it's going to be the right way out of this situation. And while this is another 184 amendment, which is similar to what you said before. It applies to sub-paragraph six of chapter one and delete. No military, no others are involved. That's why, but I'm putting your 184th amendment, because it's your right as a national deputy of Ukraine. I respect him. 184. Puzichuk's correction. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:49:56]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u307	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Correction number 198. Dear colleagues, as far as science is concerned. Today, the State is the contracting authority, and the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine is the performer, and the State has commissioned 1 thousand 169 tasks that the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine is studying. Of these, 553 fundamental studies, 567 applied studies and 47 short-term studies. Please tell me, if the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences takes away land if agricultural universities take away land, how will they be able to carry out the tasks of the State in this scientific study? Explain, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u308	198 Puzichuk. It's rejected. Please vote. [[13:51:23]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Please, Mr. Andrey, what's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u309	Thank you, Mr. Head. My next amendment is 205. Dear colleagues, as the subject of government procurement continues. If this project is adopted, unfortunately all these government orders will not be executed, the academy will simply not be able to execute them, they will not have land on which they can and should carry out all these scientific studies. You know, I want to point out what I said today is that the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences is underfunded by the State by 70 percent. And unfortunately, scientists today, apart from scientific activities, are forced to do business and try to make money for development, for support, for Ukrainian science. Dear colleagues, we must think today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u310	205 The amendment by Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko and Puziyczuk was rejected by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. Please vote. [[13:52:54]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Please, Mr. Andrey, what number is next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u311	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Next amendment number 212. Dear colleagues, tell me, does Parliament or the agrarian committee propose compensation mechanisms for science to exist today? How will the financing of science be increased? Well, if the land is taken away, you and I understand what this will actually lead to? Shortening 15,000 jobs, it's not going to come to the state budget. But on the other hand, there's going to be increased expenditure from the state budget. And with scientists today, low wages, and tomorrow they're going to be unable to pay their wages, they're going to shut down electricity and heat in scientific institutions. In fact, this will lead to the complete destruction of all science. Let's stop and turn away.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u312	Dear colleagues, 212 Puzichuk's correction is rejected by the committee. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[13:54:28]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Please make the next amendment, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u313	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for my amendment number 217. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the transfer of complete property complexes without the consent of the authorities that manage them will have a negative impact on the state of management of such enterprises. Today, the actual owner is cut off from participating in such serious changes. Now we can look at some of the enterprises, agricultural enterprises, as decided by the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences, were transferred to the State Property Fund. What happens next? The State Property Fund leaves only land, and entire property complexes return to the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences. You and I can clearly see that he's trying to alienate the National Academy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u314	Amendment 217, rejected by the committee, by Timoshenko, Puziyczuk. Please vote. [[13:55:58]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Please, Mr. Andrew. What's your next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u315	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The next amendment is my number 218. Dear colleagues, we all remember the decision to sell agricultural land. You remember, during the night, COVID made a decision. So what's going on today? In fact, if we are speaking about the Ukrainian land, perhaps there is a second historical decision. So first of all, they started a mechanism for the sale of agricultural land. The second is that since January 1st, 24th, we have a mechanism for selling land to foreigners. "Paternity" has registered and insists on the adoption of a bill that will be postponed until the end of the war for at least 3-5 years of land sales to foreigners. But instead of adopting the "Paternity" bill, you create the following prerequisites.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u316	217. Amendment of the authorship of Timoshenko and Puziychuk. The committee's dismissed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u317	218th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u318	218th. God, I'm sorry. Thank you. I'm sorry. Get away from me. 218. An amendment to the authorship of Mr. Puzichuk himself. I'll take her into account. Unfortunately, the committee rejected it. Please vote. [[13:57:46]] For-9 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. Please, Mr. Andrey, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u319	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, for your support. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that the Head of the Supreme Council is beginning to share the position of the Fatherland on what.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u320	This is a single act of goodwill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u321	But that shows that you're beginning to listen to the constructive position of the Fatherland and you're beginning to agree that the land of state ownership should remain in the state, especially the valuable lands that are today at the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. So, colleagues, we need to reject this bill, not for a second reading, but to reject and work with you a normal bill that really will speak, and not what you say, but to make effective use of the land of held property, which will enable agrarians to work from occupied territories to really make it possible not to be ephemeral, but real.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u322	221 Puzichuk’s correction was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:59:14]] For -8 The decision is not taken. What's the next amendment, Mr. Andrey?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u323	Thank you, Your Honor. My amendment number 232. Dear colleagues, let's re-emphasize a little historical tour of the past. If you remember, according to various sociological surveys, most Ukrainian citizens opposed the sale of agricultural land. Sociology said 60-70 percent of Ukrainian citizens opposed it. We've seen numerous meetings with you under the Supreme Council when agrarians were required not to adopt a bill. And in fact, the authorities were delaying the adoption of this bill until COVID arrived. Once again, during COVID, when rallies, congregations of people were banned, there was adoption, approval of a shameful bill on the sale of Ukrainian land. So we have no right to repeat it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u324	232 amendments, by Timoshenko, Puziychuk. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:00:40]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Please, next, what's the number? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u325	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. You say you're delaying the meeting, do we have 14 hours?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u326	I don't want to upset you, we have a continuous session for this entire session.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u327	Okay. We'll be working with you for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u328	I'm very happy, please. You're very interested in listening. You're a good conversationalist. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u329	Thank you. Dear Chairman, my next amendment is 238. You know, dear colleagues, we're here today. See, the honourable chairman, the Conciliation Council has decided that the Supreme Council is working today until 14 o’clock. This was the decision of the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u330	Please report for correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u331	That's the first one. Well, let's let our viewers know that there was a decision that the Supreme Council is working today up to 14 hours -- first. Second, there is no room for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u332	238, an amendment by Puzichuk, unfortunately rejected by the committee. I'm putting 238 amendments to the vote. Please vote. [[14:02:12]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Please, what's the next amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u333	Ruslan Alexiyovich, my next amendment to 257. But Mr. Head, once again, I appeal to you that for today, for the time being, there is no quorum in the session room of the Supreme Council, we have no reason to hold a meeting for the time being. So I demand that we now declare a recess and continue the meetings when there are 226 deputies. And in the next plenary session, I will continue to insist on taking all my amendments into account, but for the time being, we don't have a legitimate quorum to hold a meeting. So once again, for the transcript, for the video record, for all citizens, I'm going to inform you that I'm going to continue to insist on all my amendments in the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-14-m0.u334	Once again, we've got a meeting over and over again, you know? We have a permanent session, our next meeting will be in September, and I think we'll finish this question by September. 257 amendments by Tymoshenko, Puziyczuk, were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:03:52]] For -6 The decision is not taken. One second. My dear colleagues, unfortunately, we have not completed a list of issues that was previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, because we are now in the amendment, but we will now take a break. I announce a recess in our plenary session, and the time and place of its continuation will be notified to you in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We continue to work together for the full victory. Thank you all for the fruitful work and glory of Ukraine!
