ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, before the plenary is resumed, I would like to highlight the need for the continued enforcement of the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the opening of the plenary session, its running and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. All Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the government, are responsible for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a pause in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in a single plenary session, so today, according to our resolution on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war and the proposal of the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups, we continue our plenary session. In good tradition, let's start with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] The country's distinguished national deputies, the eleventh month of widespread military aggression by the Russian Federation against the Ukrainian State and our people. Our heroic advocates and protectors display exceptional heroism and courage every day, protecting Ukraine’s sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity. Such devotion and self - sacrifice of our fighters are testimony to the incorruptibility of the spirit of the Ukrainian people, their eternal longing for freedom and justice, their belief that God is with us the truth, and, hence, the inevitable victory. Sadly, our soldiers and peaceful citizens are killed in a fierce war. So I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of our defenders and protectors who have fallen into battle for Ukraine and of all civilians who have been victims of criminal Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to conduct a signal vote before the day’s issue begins. (I know we're about to make a signal vote, then I'll give it to you). I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, please take part in the signal vote. [[10:21:05]] For 238. 238, against 6, held – 4, did not vote – 70. Once again, I appeal to all Ukrainian national MPs and government representatives to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council, not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, decisions taken in Parliament before an hour after the end of our work. Dear colleagues, before I go into the agenda, I have a statement from two factions, it's "Fatherland" and "For the Future." Right? Break with a replacement for the performance, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Then let's get to work. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, well, in principle, in this room we're used to intrigue, it's a normal process, unfortunately. But today, even with such experience in Parliament, we were very impressed. Because on the morning before the Conciliation Council, the first questions in the agenda were the five decrees for the removal of members of the FMCT faction from the MP’s mandate. It's, you know, Aksionov, The Ripper, Kozak, Kuzmin and Medvedchuk. After the Conciliation Council, these decrees disappear, they disappear, they are no longer in the front row. Obviously, there were cool deals, obviously, they got lost, everything worked out, and I don't even have any objection to it -- hold on as long as you want. But the main thing is that the hostage of these processes was the Fatherland. And we've asked the first questions by Energoat and the questions on the ground, where we have a total of about 400 rights. And information reports have already been prepared that because of the Fatherland, these five beautiful people in Parliament will not be deprived of their mandates. Well, it's nice to be in the limelight, Fatherland, but it's not that bold. And so, dear friends, I'd like to ask you in this room. Do you really agree that things like this happen in your back? And so that they don't happen behind their backs, I want to say that the Fatherland, even if everyone else in the Presidium gets on their heads, we're still going to be announcing the Energoatoma, because it's a homage during the war to start the process of privatizing the Energoatom. And secondly, we're definitely going to announce just as many rights to decontaminate our agricultural lands. We'll do it. But I'd like to ask the room now. And I, Mr. Head, insist that, I insist, and this is my regulatory right to now put to the vote the question of putting the first five questions back into order on the day’s agenda: 8344 (D), 8349 (D), 8350 (D) and 8350 (D), 8352 (D). I ask you to put it to the vote now. It's going to be a test for this room, whether you're ready to take part in these dirty games. Fatherland is definitely not ready. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u3	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Dear colleagues, you've all received a draft agenda. This project is approved. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand, but we have to vote on Julia Volodymyrna's proposal. If you don't mind, Irina Volodymyrna. Well, that's it, Julia Volodymyrna, you're done. Julia Volodymyrna, I haven't seen her for 10 seconds. Well, I'm not. You finished, you said, put the question to the vote, Julia Volodymyrna. Well, I didn't watch the time, Julia Volodymyrna. Dear colleagues, look, I'll let you know. Today we had the Conciliation Council. The questions mentioned by Julia Volodymyrna became the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh. The first two questions were raised by the ones she spoke of. But Julia Volodymyrna makes a suggestion to the hall to change the order of the day’s affairs by asking the following questions: 8344, 8349, 8350, 8351, 8352. Did I make it right? No, that's how all the numbers know. Please, I'm putting Julia Volodymyrovna's proposal to the vote. Please. [[10:26:01]] For-179 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Then we move on to the agenda that was approved by the Conciliation Council. I'm sorry, Irina Volodymyrna, please, Heratchenka. There were two factions left. From which, please say. "European Solidarity" and "Trust," right? Of course, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u4	Dear Ukrainian people, what just happened? We see a lot of puffsy words, talk about how the authorities seem to be struggling with forbidden parties, and they're actually major partners. And now to keep the mandates of the five people who fled from Ukraine after the Dignity Revolution, but then returned after the inauguration and helped the government and the TSC committee on "vagants," and on all the other stories with Portnov together to open criminal cases against generals, patriots, now the main thing is to protect them and not let them get away with their mandates. Therefore, our faction emphasizes that only 179 Ukrainian national deputies today voted in favour of depriving the daytime issue of the mandates of collaborators and traitors who, by the way, now feel very good about Rublevke. And they need not only to be deprived of their mandates, but also to be deprived of their will, because according to the article "State betrayal and collaborationism" it is more than 10 years before they are sent to prison. We demand a vote to put the issue first in the agenda of depriving people of Russian passports. By the way, the fact that Aksionova had a Russian passport, we knew back in 2020 and talked about it, but he was allowed into the session hall. And likewise, my friends, I want to say that four factions and groups, and I thank everyone very much for this, have signed up for the day, five factions and groups, to order the day's issue of depriving the heads of committees and deputy heads of committees of banned factions. Who does not put this decree in order of the day? "Serve of the people." I remember this faction being eliminated because they don't hide that they're the main voting partners. In fact, we're asking the first question today -- the removal of the mandates of collaborators and traitors. The other one. To put in order a day’s decree that a representative of the OPCW cannot lead a committee of freedom of speech, he can only destroy freedom of speech. Third. We demand that all laws banning Moscow’s Kremlinic ashes be put into order in the daytime. That's the challenge today, and that's what our military on the front are telling you about. This will be the normal order of the day, not what is now in the present. We, the European Solidarity, the Fatherland, the other factions, the Voice, the Trust, the Future, whose signatures are under this statement to the Head of the Supreme Council, turn to the next. Let's start with the vote on no mandates. Then the decision to withdraw from office, from the boards of representatives of the forbidden party. Third. It's a ban on Kremlin ashes, and all these laws here. And all those bills that really are.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm sorry, we can do this one day. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm out of procedure. Arthur Vladimir, what's your procedure, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u6	Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! We ask you once again to put to the vote the question of "European Solidarity" to begin our sessional day with the rulings regarding the suspension of the powers of national deputies: 8344, 8345.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u7	That's how we voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u8	8350 and 8351 again.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u9	What does it mean again?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u10	And 8352.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u11	Look, I can put it in the version where only Irina Volodymyrna said. Because in that version that you said, it completely duplicates the position that was already voted in the hall. So, dear colleagues, once again, I'm proposing that we all not try to finish our working day any faster, but gather ourselves and sit down to vote on all the issues of the agenda. So, dear colleagues, I'm offering Irina Volodymyrna. Please vote. [[10:30:56.]] For-189 Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to move on to the agenda. There's an offer. Who? Bobrowsky? What question? Out of procedure, please, Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u12	I believe that this issue is absolutely global, fundamental to the State's security. And the Ukrainian people today will not understand us on the eve of the great festival unless we really put in order the first draft decrees for the permanent cessation of the five traitors of Ukraine before these two bills. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of changing the agenda and the decision to suspend the mandate to put the first one, especially Medvedchuk. Sadly, it is mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u13	Look, Mrs. Solomia, we have already voted on such a proposal. All right, good fellows. Honorable colleagues, which means once again, expressed themselves on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues. Please, Mariana. Mariana Bezugla Now, just a second, Beggar Marian.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am surprised by the pharisaic presence that is now in the hall. It's Herasimov, and I'm sorry, it's just that, for example, "European Solidarity" has been against the repeal of the counter-intelligence bill, which allows for systematic work on the Moscow Patriarchate, on the OPCW and other pro-Russian factions in the Hall. And so right now, we're just wasting time to talk -- we're still going to vote on these mandates. But please support systemic changes and bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u15	Right to the replica, please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. No, please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, right to a replica. I give Arthur Volodymyrovich, including as co-heads. Please. Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u16	Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, you know, there's a problem with the monopoly in this room, the fact that the opposition reads all the laws. And those who accept from you the heads of the committees that take your part in the Conciliation Council can confirm that. So I'm talking to those who are now speaking, don't forget to break laws, where in small print, like in banking contracts, yes, very bad things are written, and the name is really very beautiful. And, Your Honor Ruslan Alexiyovich, I bring once again the matter of procedure, put to the vote of the hall the following things to consider: Decree 8352, 8351, 8350, 8349 and 8344. It's a different order, it's a different proposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u17	Arthur Volodymyrovich, look, let's not play around with any numbers. This is the final time that I'm putting along with Samantha's proposal, they're about the same. So please, this is the last time, and then we're going to go into the agenda. Please vote. Dear colleagues, once again. Once again, let's not do any circus. I'll bet you an offer first for Solomia Bobrowski. Please vote. [[10:34:37]] For 223 The solution. All right, good fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] "For the future" has already offered. Yes, let's move on to the agenda, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, three-minute recess, faction leaders and groups gather with me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I give you my word. [[B in m in s a l in]] God, since I haven't seen this in a while, I've missed you! I give the word to David, Georgiyovich of Arahamaiah. I think his offer will get the required number of votes. Please, David Georgiyovich, the "Slut of the People" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u19	Comrades, good day to you all! I suggest we change the order of the day this way. First question. To vote for the removal of the MP's mandate, according to his own statement by Deputy Aksionov, without discussion. In a human oncology, you can all get into the same situation, and I don't think you should just speculate about it at all. And then there are the political four questions: removing the mandates of Medvedchuk, Kozak there and others, yes, all those who lost their citizenship according to the President's decree. On this issue, I propose a discussion from all factions, then put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I think, Solomon's decision. I'm offering David Georgiyovich Arahamaiya. I mean, look, I'll rephrase it, okay? We're changing the order of the day. 8344 votes without discussion. Arthur! Next: 8349, 8350, 8351, 8352, each faction and group will receive a three - minute performance to address these questions. And three more "European Solidarity" is going to have two minutes each. Is that how it works? I'm making this offer. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:41:51]] For 279 Decision taken. Thank you, David Georgiyovich, for making such a wise decision. So we're going straight through, as we agreed, 8344. This is a draft decree to terminate the mandate of Ukraine's national deputy, Aksionova A.A. We agreed, no discussion, we're voting now. I'm putting in a draft order. I would like to propose a draft regulation 8344 as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:42:39]] For 294 Decision taken. Next. Dear colleagues, we next have Order 8349. This is a draft decree to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Deracza A.L. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Dear colleagues, in the discussion we will speak on all three decrees, so no matter what will be there. Four at a time, excuse me, four at a time. Please vote. [[10:43:24]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, all factions and groups are recorded after this decree, for three minutes. Please register the factions and groups and speak on this and three others. Please, National Deputy Laba Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u21	Please give the word to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u22	Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, intercessors! Today we are dealing with a very sensitive, sensitive question for Ukrainian society, a question that can be said to have matured, namely: the question of the loss of parliamentary mandates, in full compliance with the constitutional framework of Ukraine, by four national deputies representing the pro-Russian political power, which, according to the results of the elections of 2019, has become parliamentary. At the same time, since the beginning of widespread aggression and especially before the beginning of the various television broadcasts, we have heard favorable comments about Russia from these four national deputies, especially since the beginning of the aggression, when these Ukrainian national deputies left Ukraine and did not appear in the Parliamentary Hall, according to a decision made by the President of Ukraine's National Migration Service in full compliance with the Ukrainian Citizenship Act, that they have lost Ukrainian citizenship. According to the Ukrainian Constitution, a person who has lost Ukrainian citizenship has lost the mandate of the Ukrainian people's representative. That's why the People's Servant political party will certainly support this decision, this decision to lose people who have clearly occupied anti-Ukraine's anti-government position, the mandates of the Ukrainian people's deputies. And we call on all the people's deputies to support this decision, and the citizens of Ukraine, I am convinced, will support this very decision of the Ukrainian Parliament. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u24	Heroic glory! Please give the word to Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u25	Please give the word to Ivanni Orestovni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u26	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, depriving the Fifth Column of mandates, the MP's mandates are very important. And it's amazing that we've succeeded in this decision almost a year after the outbreak of a full-scale war and after the start of a full-scale invasion. And it's a good thing that we've already denied Aksion's mandate, because we know that he's got a major disease -- he's got a severe rusophilia and his Russian passport, which we talked about in the 50th district elections, but this hall was happy to welcome him as the Ukrainian national deputy. What about the question that we're looking at right now? Andrew Derkac is a vivid example of how the traitors of Ukraine felt for decades. Who he was was seen with an unarmed eye. And it's symbolic that Parliament is now depriving him of his parliamentary mandate right now, even though part of Lavra is already driven out of Moscow's ashes, because for many years the Ripper has been president of the so-called Orthodox Film Festival, which has been attended by various Ethiopian filth from all over the world and such "deservers" (in paws) as Michalkov. The Moscow Ears of the Dercac long ago noticed our partners. And I remind you that the United States of America has long imposed sanctions on him and declared him a Russian agent. But I would also like to remind you that some of the people in this room have played on his subversive activities. I would like to remind you that we remember the so - called film of the Ripper, which was shouted at by all the beaten bangs, persuading people of the lie about the leader of the opposition. And you know what? No one is ashamed, nor has anyone gained the dignity or the courage to apologize. This story, for me, needs further investigation. And we need to find out whose direction and whose purpose the Bank's advertisers acted in unison with Derkach and, before the war, discredited the leader of "European Solidarity", who called on the authorities to prepare for Russia's attack. Taking away the Ripper's mandate is the right thing to do, but it's too late. On his hands the blood of the Ukrainians. Society, colleagues, is not enough public shows, and society demands just punishment. And if someone thinks that if they have been able to absolve them of criminal responsibility, you are mistaken, that it is impossible to deceive people. The war will end and people will ask everything. I hope that the entire room will support this decision to deprive the traitor and the Russian agent of Ukraine's parliamentary mandate. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u28	Please, Paul Andriovich Bakunec, "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u29	Christ Is Born! Dear Mr. Head, I certainly welcome the decision that, at least in part, for the tenth month of a difficult war, but still the Ukrainian Parliament is under the pressure of our military, our defenders, under the pressure of Ukrainian society, still making a decisive decision to remove the mandate of traitors of Ukraine. Of course, it is only a partial decision, for it is clear that the criminal responsibility for each of today’s voted halls will still be and that the court will clearly decide on them. And it has to be said that this state betrayal, this collaborationism, these calls against Ukraine, which have been made in the past years by these deputies of the former Ukraine, of course, must be clearly responded to today by the Ukrainian Parliament. I think there will be enough votes in the room to deprive them of their mandate. Of course, there are still a number of deputies who have fled from Ukraine, and they must also be deprived of their mandate. There are a number of deputies who are in positions of government, local self - government, and we need to make the appropriate decisions that our society requires. And we don't forget the other Kremlin root, the Moscow Patriarchate. So I urge you to put the daily bill 8221 into order at the nearest plenary session and cut off this Moscow Patriarchate and these Moscow roots in our country. So I urge the Hall to support this decision, to vote in favour, as required by Ukrainian society and our defenders. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u30	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace, then Butenko. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, I'm sorry, then Ruššin Jaroslav Ivanovich and then Vlasenko. Yuri Anatolyevich, please Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs, in fact, I've been avoiding the transition to personalities in my speeches, but some of the previous speakers, who, with the Komsomolian chorus, have brought back some memories. I personally remember one of the previous speakers, who, a few years ago, with the same cosmopolitan chorus, advocated the creation of the Za Yanukovic faction in the Odessa City Council. When I'm not kidding, that's what he called it, the faction for Yanukovich, he led it. And then there was Odessa, Russian City, Family Language, Russian, and so on, other sensations. I also remember a national MP who now hopes to be a true patriot when he goes out to the rostrum. I remember him in a different way. He was a business partner of such a kind as the Deputy Secretary of the National Security Council, Sivkovic, with whom they took into the businessman's television channel, which today claims to be the most patriotic. But on the way back from the past, on February 24, politicians were divided into two parts. All those who have stayed with me have been working with us since this day to adopt laws that enable our country to survive, they've all stayed, they're working for Ukraine, and they're struggling with Russian aggression. Those who left the country on February 24 do not exist for us. And our group supports the removal of mandates from those who fled the country on February 24. This is our position, and we will stick to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u32	The word is given to Taras Ivanovich Batenka, the Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, first thing I want to say is, what is a national idea, ask. It is difficult to answer that question, and deep discussion is between historians. One of them said brilliantly: Today's national idea is the Armed Forces of Ukraine, because their mouths are telling the truth and telling the truth today on the front. And listen to what the Armed Forces of Ukraine say today. The second thing that I want to say about taking out Medvedchuk and company mandates is that this was going to happen much earlier. The war has been almost a year. Timely political cleansing, moral cleansing are very important for the political nation. It's important to do it in time, because it might be too late. And it's too late when society looks back on the need for this cleansing and it starts to radicalize. Is it enough to take office on the committees of former representatives of the OPCW? No, that's not enough. Is it enough to remove a visit to parliament? Our Bill 7424 is registered and is still being considered on committees. Enough for Parliament, but not enough for today's society. The question is that less than taking mandates away from former MPs from the OPCW, and we see how many traitors today, collaborators in the occupied territories are symbolizing this abbreviation during the year, our Ukrainian society today will no longer agree. What he thinks about this former C.E.C.I. doesn't really interest anyone anymore. Time's up, guys. And on this point, you have to put the final dot. If not Parliament, this dot will be made in place of us by Ukrainian society. So let us do this today or never. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u34	Please give the floor to the national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u35	Please tell Bobrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u36	Please, Samantha Bobrowski, same faction of Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u37	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. This decision is long overdue, it has long been painful for the Ripper, perhaps six references, when the court's decision was to be about treason long ago. And in fact, it was supposed to be a non-political one, and by approval it was decided to suspend the mandate. I'm talking about the number of years and the number of lawsuits on a small case, but a fundamental case that was one of the links to the construction of the agency network of the Russian Federation Armed Forces. That is, by the way, what the Security Service finally brought charges in the June months of Deracchus. If you didn't know, on Sadowie's, there was a very long call to the RPC chapel. There were the services, for the COVID period stopped. Finally, on December 19, Epiphanius served as a public servant, a place for all religions except those who work for the enemy. It's a tiny little detail that you could all be involved in, but few of you have stood up for this summons to have this chapel of the Russian Church taken from there. In addition to the accusations he has, it seems to me that those who work especially in the Energy Committee know very well the role of the Dercer not only in this Parliament, but his shadow curatorship, the leadership of Energoatum. That's what each of you must also do and understand his role, the function of nuclear power plants, of his entire command. And it was very strange for me to get completely different calls when the TSC for Energoatum was being created. And Zaporezka's AES, and the director's role, and all the people in most of the people who worked there, and unfortunately, they were waiting for the invaders, that's also a question for him. That's all the big scheme he's involved in. And all of his people who have worked with him for over 20 years have a lot to do with it. I can't remember the figure of "the great statesman" here. Leonidas Kuchmu, who also had a role in creating this family and the role of looting, building an agency network, and destroying the state of Ukraine as a system in this room. So, dear colleagues, here should be absolutely all the green buttons, and the factions that came before me, I want to remind you that the Hymn of Ukraine is being done out loud, not silently, when we're talking about loyalty and work on this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, the "Fatherland" faction, and after that, we will vote. Therefore, I ask the national deputies to take their seats. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u39	Thank you, Mr. Head. I want to mark or start with the fact that the Fatherland faction is the only parliamentary political force that has systematically fought the Party of Regions since 2002 when Janukovitch was appointed Prime Minister in 2004 during the Orange Revolution, in the dark times of Janukovich from the 10th to the 14th. The "Fatherland" party was the only political force whose leader Janukovic and the Kremlin were imprisoned and tortured. The "Fatherland" party was the only one whose members were under political pressure and political repression, whose apartments were searched, whose assets were confiscated and so on, and so on and so forth. That's why we're systemic opponents of the Party of Regions today. It's funny, therefore, to try to put on the Fatherland responsibility for today's decision not to vote on the decision to remove mandates. It's absolutely funny and it's artificial. This seems fine only for those who do not remember their history, who do not remember what happened a few years ago. Therefore, the Fatherland faction with green buttons supports all the decisions that we will consider today and beyond if such draft regulations are made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I believe that the task of Parliament is different now. Parliament's task is to ensure, first of all, that we ensure that our Armed Forces are defeated in the face of the Russian Federation's armed aggression. But on the other hand, to drive us out of Ukraine even a hint of Russian peace and copying, apes of what's going on in the Russian Federation. Because some of the bills that are being tabled by this Supreme Council are unfortunately very similar to those of the mechanisms and procedures that Putin is today applying in his country in order to illegally maintain power in his hands and continue to threaten Ukraine and the entire democratic world. I would like to stress once again, the "Paternity" party is a pro-European party, I'm not afraid of that word today, the pronatov political power that has fought systematically and will fight with the remnants of the "Party of Regions" in whatever way they exist, and with all those who have ever collaborated with the "Party of Regions" in Ukraine and not in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this decision, I ask the people's deputies to take their seats, we move on to the decision-making process. In accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Decree (registration number 8349) on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Dercak Andrija Leonidovich. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:03:58]] For 314 Decision taken. It's been decided. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, next question is 8350. This is a draft decree to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy Kozak T.R. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:04:40]] For 266 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed, two minutes -- "European solidarity" and we vote. Which one of you will vote? I just want to remind you, as long as it goes, that all of these decisions are made, the previous ones, and the next two, in accordance with the Ukrainian President's decree, according to which Ukraine's citizenship has been suspended by these deputies. Please, Maria Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues! What's an ADD? That's the party that's been defending one of the Russian issues since 2014, and we're all aware of it. It is Russian language, promotion, the Russian Church, and Russian interests. These are the people who flew to Moscow for worship, talking about the love of such brotherly nations, which took place after the coup d’état in 2014 when Ukraine was killed here on Ukrainian soil. They continued to follow Moscow’s instructions. And where did they broadcast it? On a television channel that was recorded on Taras Kozak. And I'm not saying that, according to the statements of these people that we are voting on today's rulings, we have brought cases against the patriots, against the volunteers, against the military and against the democratic opposition politicians. We do not know yet how many Ukrainians died in this war. It's a terrible war. But we know exactly who played this war at Moscow's expense. My friends, your friends, our assistants, your assistants on the front line right now, and they're all asking, why are all these people still working and still deputizing the Supreme Council? And so, you know, getting these people out of charge for treason is also a crime. So think. And I'm sure we're going to get the same constitutional decision today. But the question remains, what are they still doing here? And it's not our question, it's a question of people, it's a question of the military. So write all the statements because this is the Ukrainian pro-European Parliament. I believe so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. In accordance with part two, part four of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Decree (registration number 8350) on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Kozak Taras Romanovic. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:07:34]] For 317 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. Next order. Oh, by the factions, excuse me, show me the factions. Dear colleagues, next to Decree 8351. According to part four of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for the decision to suspend the powers of Ukraine’s national deputy for the term of office when its citizenship is terminated. The Supreme Council of Ukraine was given an order by the President of Ukraine to suspend the citizenship of Ukraine's national deputy Kuzmin Renata Raveliyovich. In this regard, the Supreme Council has registered a draft Decree No. 8351. We agreed, too, two minutes from European Solidarity and we move immediately to making a decision. Please, who's from European Solidarity? Heroceno.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u43	Renat Kuzmin. He's the only substitute for Mr. Pshonka. In 2014, a criminal case was committed against this traitor. Sadly, though, he fled, not until he was finished, and in 2019 triumphantly, he was brought to the session hall of Ukraine for a pen. Moreover, Renat Kuzmin was so needy that he was introduced into the TSC by "vagants," where this traitor, a collaborator, a person with a Russian passport got absolutely officially, under the signature, access to all the classified, secret materials about the most important and best special operation of Ukrainian special services. You're asking about it, how did Moscow get information about all our services? Yes, in Kuzmina, he handed it over to the people who gave permission through the B.S.A. And we have one question: and we're sure that we're doing a very good one right now, just by depriving traitors of the Ukrainian mandate and allowing them to feel very comfortable in Moscow right now? And who's to say that people with Russian passports came into this room who were covered up with criminal cases against them, that there were criminal cases behind these pasta of Kuzmin, including against European Solidarity, under your insurrection, under your joy? Where is Mr. Bakanova’s report today, which has also been released for essentially very serious matters? How did Kuzmin get famous, except for his betrayal? Because he played "Murka" beautifully. So it's our job for him to play "Murka" on the naves, not on Rubbleovka. And so today, by voting for him to get rid of the mandate, we have a very loud question to ask, and they will answer to the Ukrainian law? Justice calls for an answer. And, by the way, Volosin is also supposed to give a mandate. He hasn't been here for 10 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with part two, part four of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Decree (registration number 8351) on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Kuzmin Renata Raveliyovich. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:11:20]] For 319 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. Show the factions, please. The only little detail. I understand that, Mariana Bezgle. Just, please, for a little while. She's the head of this TSC they just told me about. A little clarification. [[B in m in s a l in]] One second, it was named. Okay. Stop, come on, colleagues, let's stop this. Is it possible to get Mariana out of the procedure? Please, Mariana. Mariana Bezugla is a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u45	Thank you. He received neither permission nor access to TSC materials. I was not familiar with the secret materials currently available in the first department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u46	Thank you. This is important for the transcript. Dear colleagues, according to Part Four. Let's get to the interesting point: 8351. It's a draft decision. Oh, I'm sorry, 8352: draft Ordinance on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Medvedchuk W.V. According to part four of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to decide on the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy in the event of the termination of its citizenship. The Supreme Council of Ukraine was given an order by the President of Ukraine to suspend the citizenship of Ukraine's national deputy Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich. In this regard, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has registered an appropriate draft of Decree 8352. Dear colleagues, we also agreed on two minutes of "European Solidarity" and we vote. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u47	"You will never die again, you are a bison, a land enslaved to the ages, and you will not be punished by the stranglers of Siberia and the solos." And the Bears. The prophetic words of Vasil Stus. A week ago, we were supposed to celebrate his 85th birthday by standing here applauding him. But we can't. Moscow killed him with the hands of its bastards. One of them is the Bear. And then Medvedchuk turned into a cancer tumor that has been destroying this country for decades, destroying it, and now we're removing this tumor from the Supreme Council. Is that good? Yes. Is that enough? No, it's not. Because the metastases of this tumor are here because then the OCD in the Supreme Council, those who went with him to Moscow, who went out on the balcony of the Russian Federation's "gray" -- those who went to Putin and licked his boots. They're still here, they need to be thrown out of here! But is that enough? No, it's not. Because there must continue to be a tribunal, and traitors must pray to survive to this tribunal. And I want to tell the entire fifth column and all the traitors. Wherever they are now: Moscow, Monaco, Kiev, whatever, you will all answer. All "you bastards of cats of devils, don't forget, bastards, nowhere: my people are, in his Cossacks the hot blood is throbbing and gushing!" Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, we've arranged a meeting of factions and groups leaders. All right, so I understand that Medvedchuk needs to talk to all the factions and groups, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, look, we agreed one thing at a time. I can't do it any other way. Come on, great colleagues, is there a need for that? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, come on, we have Samantha, she wants something out of procedure. Do I get it right? No, look, Samantha, we made a deal like this, it won't be any different. All right, if you don't want to get out of this procedure, let's get to the vote. The procedure is for Solomia Bobrowski, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, I understand we agreed, but Medvedchuk is not just a figure who has a mandate in this Supreme Council. He is a person and a person who has killed the Ukrainian people, perhaps since his professional career. And these things can't be left without discussion, because some of these people who are sitting here may never have known who Basil Stus is before Medvedchuk showed up at the Council, or by chance realized that he was on trial for the book. I want to say that today we are establishing justice not only in relation to this institution, but primarily in front of the dissidents he has oppressed, oppressed and killed with his own hands, requiring the greatest punishment of Vasil Stus. And finally, that's the point. This man is the killer of the entire Ukrainian people, and he's not worth 215 of those lives of our freed captives, he's costing thousands of boys and girls to get out of captivity for his skin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u50	Samantha Anatolyevna, look, it wasn't quite the procedure. But, dear fellows, let's do it. Are you out of procedure, too? Vasilevska Smagluk? Vasilevska Smagluk. Let's do one faction at a time. Please, Vasilevska Smagluk. No, no, not the rostrum, not the rostrum, my friends. If it's out of procedure, there's no such thing. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, there is such a thing as political conjuncture. I remember in 19th year, Mrs. Ustinova and I from Voice set up a temporary investigation commission that was investigating television channels funded by Victor Medvedchuk and Taras Kozak. And then our TSC investigated a lot of documents and a lot of facts and money laundering, and financing terrorism, information terrorism, including research and evidence. And this was the report of our temporary commission of inquiry, which was just some of the political forces that are reading verses from the rostrum today, did not vote, then protecting 3 TV channels: ZIK, NewsOne and 112. These channels, they destroyed our information space, and they threatened our statehood. You can see the results now. So if we're talking about the political conjuncture and some people who are now being fanatical about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u52	Thank you, Your Honor, we're done. That's it, that's it. Dear colleagues, the only clarification I'd like to say is that I've come to understand so much that they said that the author of the poems was Stus. After all, the author of the texts that were quoted in flames today is Vasil Simonenko, about the catas of the Ottomans. Yes, thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with part two, part four of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Decree (registration number 8352) on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich. Please support and vote. [[11:18:54]] For the 320. Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the agenda. We're coming in. From the procedure? Irina Volodymyr is out of procedure, I take it, on the disclosure of the activities of the Supreme Council, about. Please. No, it's all right, guys.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, after today's vote, we first ask the authorities to arrest all Medvedchuk's assets, including channel 1+1 shares, which are broadcast in a marathon. And when it comes to highlighting the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it does not appear in a marathon. And today was a very important vote, to which, as you know, is the demand to see our military chiefly, as the Supreme Council of Ukraine responds to the President's order to suspend.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u54	I'm sorry. The procedure is Irina Volodymyrna, or I'll stop now, and that won't happen again. Out of procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u55	I'm talking about highlighting the Supreme's activities. I'm asking you not to interrupt, and I'm asking the Hall to have a full discussion in the Council about the removal of the mandates of collaborators and traitors. Please vote on that. We voted in favour of January 12th, now today to get him out of the network of the "Radha" marathon, that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u56	Wait, we have to take one of the voting procedures first. Irina Volodymyrna is making a new proposal. I'm putting Irina Heratchenko's proposal to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:20:51]] For 172 The decision is not taken. Thank you, colleagues. Show the factions, please. Vlasenko, from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u57	Thank you, Mr. Head. With all due respect to the vote that has just taken place, I would like to remind you that yesterday, at the suggestion of Irina Volodymyrna, Heratschenka, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted a procedural decision that two days of meetings, yesterday and today, will be broadcast on a full scale, not just this slot, but fully on the "Rada" channel in a day or two, but in a marathon, in the "Rada" network. I just want to remind myself of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u58	Alexander Sergiyovich, please. And let's move on to the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u59	Sergey Volodymyrovich, the transcript of yesterday's session speaks a little bit of something else, so we'd like to check the clocks so that we can understand yesterday's vote correctly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, stop! Stop, that's it. All I'm asking is, I remind you again, I realize that the decisions that we have just voted on, I really want to put on the Internet, but I'm asking you very much before the meeting is over, plus one hour to refrain from communicating on these issues. One second, it's important. Oksana Savichuk, she has a single application, so I understand she didn't have a button. Well, we won't change anything, but you have the right to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I'm officially stating here that I just didn't have the Medvedchuk button at the last minute, so I definitely voted in favour of depriving him of his citizenship.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. It's 8067, the National Atomic Energy Company Act. Ready? We have a second reading. We're here. We're going to have to make adjustments to Fatherland, aren't we, Julia Volodymyrna? I invite the head of the committee or anyone there to represent from the committee, Herus, to the rostrum. Andrew Mikhailovich, you're welcome. Julia Volodymyrna, I understand correctly that instead of the 4th, 9th, 11th, 14th, 18th, 20th, 21st, 22nd, 23rd, 25th, 5th minutes of the show you're going to have, right? Please, and then let's go to the right. Andrew Mikhailovich, take your seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to inform you that according to the Energoatom Bill we have 186 rights, you can go home safely. I don't think you'd be interested in that, because in principle, green buttons push it for you, it's a normal thing. 186 right-hands means that we're not going to look at it until the end of the day, so just keep that in mind. What I'd like to say in these five minutes. I see in the hall that, in principle, it's not interesting to listen to the MPs. But still, I'm going to say that Energoatom is one of the most national acquisitions of Ukraine, perhaps one of the most expensive and effective elements of Ukraine's state property. I think that energy, which has the cheapest price for electricity and which gives us 50 percent of electricity in the consumption balance, can become a huge resource for us, including after the war, with cheap electricity to raise Ukraine, to raise Ukraine's economy, to raise Ukrainian families. Sadly, however, in the course of the war, the Ukrainian authorities today decided to pour energy, pour the profits of Energoatem, pour the controls of Energoatem, combine everything that today relates to our energy independence. How? By creating an energy stock company. What Is Shareholder Society? Even if you write a hundred times in this law that 100 percent of the shares belong to the state, that is the temporary absolute nature of this property. As soon as a state-owned company is turned into a stockholder society, the Act on Shareholder Associations enters into force, where it will be possible to sell fully the shares to Energoatum. I want to ask you, "People's servants," say, first of all, what is the need during the war to accept it? Please tell me, during the war, to make the profits of Energoatom and to give Energoat into some corrupt private hands is an immediate bill of military time? And secondly, please tell me, and you asked the people of Ukraine, they want to turn the state-owned energy company into a stock company, and then turn it into a stock company, where will the stockholders or the management go private? I think you didn't ask the referendum because you don't give a shit about the people. Because if you take energy from energy from the Ukrainian prices, which are, at the cost of electricity, and you compare it to the cost of electricity at European prices, it's going to be about 15 to 20 billion dollars. Say, name the name you call Energoat. Today, before the meeting of the Supreme Council, I've heard a unique phrase that Ukraine can't handle governance, let's give it to the aliens, only they can stop corruption. So if you can't stop corruption, then give up that power if you can't, but don't demonstrate that Ukraine is not capable of managing its greatest property. And what I want to say is that another country that has almost 80 percent of nuclear power production is France, the DF Corporation. And they made that mistake in the 2000s, in the early 2000s, and they made a stock company. But the new prime minister, when she came to power now, the first thing she announced from the rostrum of the French Parliament was the return to state property, the nationalization of the French company Energoatoma. And that's the right decision. Vote against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u64	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. So, your next 27th amendment, right, Julia Volodymyrna? I have a list of what you have, let's go after it right away. The 27th Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko Are you going to report, or are we going to vote now? Please, Julia Volodymyrna, 27th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u65	I'd like to make an announcement first. Secondly, I would like to listen to a feedback from the committee's head. And thirdly, I would like every amendment to be put to the vote. Because what we're looking at with you right now is Ukraine's salient question. Now it's going to be a marker, a marker, essentially who's the statesman in this room, and who's putting Ukraine through the surrender of corporations like Energoat. Twenty-seven. The proposal contains appropriate proposals that also provide for the definition of the shareholder society formed by the reorganization of Energoatom as a state. I would like to make it very clear right now that this is where we keep the term "state company." And I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u66	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u67	Edit rejected. Because it's another way of dealing with it. So in this case, the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u68	Thank you. I'm putting on the 27th amendment to Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:43]] For-50 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 30. Julia Volodymyrna, am I announcing? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a completely strategic issue is now being taken up for Ukraine: that the Energoat Corporation will remain a resource, property of the State and of the Ukrainian people, or that without money, profits will be privatized by any natural or legal persons. And it's all still passed on without any audit. So the 30, it provides for a full inventory of the NaEC 'Energoatom' property audit, a consolidated inventory, a list of assets transferred to the statutory capital of the company, a record of the NAEC 'Energoat' debt and approval.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u70	Please, Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u71	A similar position. The revision was taken into account in another edition, in another way, so this was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u72	Please bet on the vote number 30, by Timoshenko and others. Please vote. [[11:32:34]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Please read the following line 32.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u73	Thirty-two. Dear friends, just imagine that the shape of management at the NAEC "Energot" is changing, and it's passed on to the stockholder society, but without an audit, without an economic analysis, without an analysis of financial activity. You can understand why. You can understand that there is a need to hide and not do this audit in order to turn it into a stockholder society. The conclusions on the full inventory of the audit of the assets of NAEC "Energoatom", including the consolidated inventory of the inventory of assets transferred to the statutory capital of the society and the debt register, we want this to be done and this to be done in a fundamental way. But they rush, they rush, because someone's profit of Energoatom to the soul on a corrupt basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u74	Andrew Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u75	In this case, the right to have six months of use of the inventory report is proposed, and the bill proposes 12 months, which is more appropriate. So the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u76	Please bet on the vote 32 of Timoshenko and others. Please vote. The committee's been rejected. [[11:34:20]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Please, Julia Volodymyrna, 34th next, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u77	Yes, 34 revisions. In accordance with article 33-1 of the Supreme Council Committees Act, committees on matters related to their subjects of knowledge have agreed and consulted in cases provided for by law. Taking into account the important strategic importance of the State Enterprise Energoat, which is now being transformed criminally, illegally, against the State's interests in the shareholder society, the availability on its balance sheet of state-owned property assets that ensure Ukraine's national security and privatization of which would create significant risks to the economy and security of the state, it is proposed to provide for agreement by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the subject of which the related development of nuclear energy is to be recognized. So that no enterprise in Energoat could be sold without such consent. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u78	Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u79	This amendment proposes that the NEC Energy Debt Register be accepted by the Energy Committee. Well, that's not the practice we're using, and the committees aren't running the payments and the debtors' register yet, so in this case we've rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u80	I'm betting on a vote of 34 by Timoshenko and others, and it's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[11:36:13]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Next 38th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u81	37th right.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u82	38th, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u83	37th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u84	37th counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u85	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u86	Yes, it's counted at our place. And in your letter to the 38th next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u87	Okay, 38th. The third part of article 1, paragraph 7 is proposed to be deleted. It's about that in general, I want to take a little bit of a break from, let's say, this particular paragraph of the seventh, but say the following things. That this bill is now essentially during the war, when there is no direct broadcast of the Supreme Council, when neither the energy nor the people of Ukraine can know what's going on behind closed doors here, and when you vote today that there will be no broadcast of today's session, this is what is happening for the NAEC "Energotoma." I'd like to turn around.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u88	Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u89	In this case, the issue relates to the valuation of property, and where it cannot be evaluated, it is valued at the residual cost. Therefore, this amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u90	I'll bet you 38 votes. The committee was rejected by Timoshenko. Please vote. [[11:38:04]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next 43rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u91	Yeah, I just want to go on with what I said. I want to address all the national MPs right now, for those who understand and understand what they're doing with Energoat. Find any possibilities: get out of the hall, get sick, whatever you want to do -- but don't vote for this bill, which directly violates Ukraine's national interests, which takes away the cheapest electricity we have in Ukraine, which takes away everything we have left today in the Ukrainian family. We have taken peace, taken lives, taken men and women from our families into the army, and they are protecting our land today. And we have some resources left that we haven't taken yet, and that's our cheap electricity. Don't give that to corrupters.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u92	Briefly, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u93	The committee rejected the amendment because it considered it inappropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u94	Thank you. 43 Amendment of People’s Deputies Timoshenko The committee turned her down. People's deputies are requested to identify and vote. [[11:39:42]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Please next, Julia Volodymyrna, 45th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u95	I'd like to contact the head of the profile committee right now. Because we have you as the personification of this disqualification that's happening in our country right now. Please tell me if you know of any nation in the world that would have been at war during the destruction behind their own people’s backs practically turned into a stockholder society, which means that they would continue to sell these shares, which means that they would continue to lose control of the government of Ukraine by this object. Is there any country in the world, in the history of the world, that would have such strategic ownership in wartime? That's the first question for you. And the second. Do you know the French Prime Minister's statement that the French company that is producing will be nationalized?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u96	A brief position of the 45th Amendment Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u97	This amendment proposes to extend the mandate of the Energy Committee to accept the act of assessing Energoatom’s assets. But we are modest people, and we do not need too much authority, so we rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u98	Thank you. 45 repairs, Timoshenko. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[11:41:26]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Julia Volodymyrna, 46th. Do I get it right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u99	I want to pay attention to both the hall, and to those who will listen, in fact, it's a recording session at least in our social media and in our accounts. I want to say again that the committee head has not answered the direct question right now, and I'm asking it again. Is there any such example in the history of the world that the state that is in such a violent war is in the midst of it, is virtually now depriving itself of the right to run a company like Energoat, and is in fact in the process of transforming a state-owned enterprise into a stockholder society, in fact creating preconditions for privatizing the profits and privatization of a share of shares? And besides, do you know about the statement made by the Prime Minister of France that she said she would nationalize.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u100	Please, position 46, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u101	The 46th amendment was rejected by the committee. And in this case, the state does not lose control or control of the NAEC "Energot". Therefore, this bill can be boldly voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u102	Thank you. Forty-six repairs, Timoshenko. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[11:43:08]] For-51 The decision is not taken. So the next amendment, Julia Volodymyrna, 50th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u103	Now I want to go to the country and to the deputies of the Supreme Council and find that the committee head has deliberately failed to answer my direct question: is there any example in the history of the world that property like Energoat, which generates 50 percent of the world's most expensive electricity, is it actually being drained in the face of the entire nation during the war and behind those who defend Ukraine? He did not answer that question. Because there is no answer because it is a crime against the people of Ukraine. And he didn't answer the question whether he knew that the prime minister of France had declared the nationalization of a similar company, like our Energoat, instead of doing a stock company. I didn't answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u104	Please take the position of the 50th Amendment Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u105	Julia Volodymyrna, I know about nationalization. And we have the NAEC Energoatoma, and it's also going to be in state property exclusively, and only the state will rule. With regard to this amendment, the word "community" in a small letter is proposed to replace the word "Friendship" in capital letters. The committee decided that there was a "community" to be used in a small letter, so it rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u106	I'll put 50 amendments to the vote. Please vote. [[11:45:10]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 52. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u107	My fellow Members, I understand that the legally correct and grammatically correct writing of the bill is funny to this audience, which is a lot of details that are important when the law is considered to be written literately or illiterately. And there's a bunch of technical rights, which are really out of this absolutely, well, I would say that such a stupid law does something like a legal document. And that's why there are technical remedies, and that doesn't really cross out the very essence of this law, a substance that is certainly being adopted against Ukraine's national interests. And this has already turned into some kind of game in this Parliament, when we're discussing legislation that seems to be of national interest to Ukraine, it's hohit, some kind of competition that's going to win more votes for this stupidity. And that's why I'm asking smart MPs for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, please give a brief position to the 52th Amendment Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u109	This edit regulates the inventory times. And I think this rule should remain in the bill. Therefore, the committee decided to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u110	52 Amendment by Timoshenko, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:46:56]] For-37 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 55th. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u111	Yes, and I have another question for the committee head. Dear committee head, do you remember the promises made by your president, your faction, when you went to the election? You talked about that any, even minimal, question, the minimum, that touches the interests of the state, people, will be put to a referendum, and only after it's adopted in the referendum will there be a vote in the room. People have naively believed that, and now that people are fighting for the right to exist in general, you are stretching these criminal laws behind their backs today. Please tell me, are you going to hold a referendum on this kind of treatment with Energoat? Will you continue to be behind the backs of our people and our fighters?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u112	In this case, we've come back to the fundamental amendment: the word "sociality" is written either in capital letters or in small ones. The committee still insists on what's written in a small letter. But the next revision is going to be again about the word "community," either in big or in small letters.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u113	55 repairs, Timoshenko. The position of the committee was explained by its rejection by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:48:44]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 56th. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u114	You know, Mr. Head, actually writing a bill is not a mother's word on the fence to write where it absolutely doesn't matter: from a capital letter, from a small letter, from a middle letter, which is the definition of it. And it's a shame that there are so many mistakes in this law that you don't even want to correct. But that's not what we're talking about today. Yeah, we have a lot of technical rights there, because these bills have been worked on by professional people, but you didn't answer the question: Why are you manipulating Energoate's property today without asking the people his will without holding a referendum? What do you do during the war, who gave you such a right?Oh, my God! And why are you breaking your promises to the people of Ukraine, and why are you doing this secretly behind closed doors? Answer that question, don't hide. Don't hide. Just say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u115	A brief position for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u116	Obviously I'm hiding because I'm standing here. And the fact that Energoatum's assets are banned for privatization is what the first page of this bill says. In this case again, the word "community" is either big or small: maybe let's think about, maybe really big letter, then we can support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, the 56th Amendment, is rejected by the committee. Julia Volodymyrn requires that she be taken into account. I'll bet 56 adjustments on that. Please vote. [[11:50:39]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Julia Volodymyrna, next amendment 58, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u118	Dear Sir, when I say you're hiding, I'm not saying you're not standing in the rostrum. We all see you, yes, you just have such a public position in the rostrum right now. I'm saying you're hiding from the answer to a direct question: why do you do such things, you pass such laws behind closed doors, without direct broadcasts, during war, behind those people who fight on the front. And you know very well that what's written in this law right now, that a hundred percent of the shares belong to the state is a temporary transitional phase, that then, under the Act on Shareholders, you can absolutely quietly sell shares, you can absolutely quietly pass management to anyone, and that's what this law says about.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u119	Please give the committee a brief position. Short.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u120	Julia Volodymyrna, article 1, from which the bill begins, and article 1 states: "The state's acquisitions as a result of the formation of the society's shares are not subject to privatization." Period. They don't have to be privatized. Period. That's the answer to your question, and it's very simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, the 58th Amendment of Timoshenko. She's been rejected by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:52:31]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to the 60th Volodymyr Julia. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u122	The point is, in law, really important definitions when they say that shares are not privatized are absolutely not a definition that applies to shares, because there can be a lot of other operations that are not prohibited in this law. It's also selling, it's handing it over, it's handing it over to the government, and a lot of other things. And that's why this law is a lie, because it's absolutely, let's say, a lie in its essence. And what you're doing right now is you've just erased our regulations that have fundamentally fixed the ban on any manipulation and operation with these shares. You've just erased our changes, you haven't counted them, because you know very well that each word depends on how these actions are going to be handled.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u123	Please give the committee a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u124	After the corporation of Ukrzalznica or Ukróšta, or Ukrhidroenergo, all of these companies remained and remained, and would remain state property. Therefore, corporateism does not mean privatization. I hope everyone in this room understands that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u125	60 Amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko The committee turned her down. So please identify and vote. [[11:54:21]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Please, next 62th, Julia Volodymyrna. [[The voice from the hall. Guys, can I sit down? Mr. Head, ask your colleague to sit down.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u127	Mr. Head, if you are so generous about the fact that the corporation does not change the status of the state-owned enterprise, please tell us why you made this whole story go away. Why this law if the status of a state-owned enterprise does not change? Why are all these pretenses in these articles? Just explain the purpose of all this vanity that you've lost, if you've remained state-owned, it's going to be state-owned. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u128	Please, 62nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u129	It's written in an explanatory note to the bill, and I recommend you read it to everyone. And in general, the form of an equity company owned by a state, it provides for the transparency of the company, it provides for reporting, it provides financial reporting on a quarterly, six-monthly basis. And this significantly improves the quality of corporate governance and the quality of transparency of this state-owned enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, the 62nd Amendment of Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. She's been rejected by the committee. The positions of the parties were heard. I'll put this amendment to the vote. Please vote. [[11:55:55]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Julia Volodymyrna, next amendment 64, if I'm not mistaken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u131	Dear Mr. Head, to be honest, you listen and you think, God, how sad that Ukraine is ruled by such people. So you're saying that this will increase transparency, which means that for almost three years, your government, which ran the Energoatome, managed in a transparent way. I'm talking about the head of the committee, Mr. Stefanchuk, no, it doesn't apply to you, you can sigh and wipe out the sweat, it's okay. I just want to say that if your government worked in a transparent way for three years, that means that you, that you did corruption there, that means that you did the circuitry there, that means that you put it in the office for dumping and bribes? What does it mean that you have been doing this in a transparent way for three years? Well, it's a hill. It's just real. And you think the Prime Minister of France, who proposed to nationalize his production company.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u132	64 Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u133	We want to improve forever, we want to improve ourselves. So we try to improve.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u134	I've already put it to a vote, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. [[11:57:26]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Next 66. Julius Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u135	Next number 66, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u136	Exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u137	So what I'm saying is, I can't really talk about the short-term adjustment, I want to say again, in France in 2000, there was a decision to corporateize EDF, a French company that produces up to 80 percent of nuclear power. Now the new prime minister of France has made a statement that they will nationalize EDF companies, make them completely state-owned again in connection with the war in Ukraine, the instability of energy markets and the increased danger to the country. And we have a country where there's a war, where there's really an absolute danger, including colossal energy, you're going into corporateism.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u138	The 66th Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:56]] For-32 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 68. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u139	This is actually the fabled position of this law. The existence of unmet demands claimed by the NEC 'Energoat' creditors, executives, tax and other restrictions, the burdens on the NEC 'Energoat' and its assets are no reason to refuse entry into the Single State Register of Legal Persons, the natural persons of business and the social formations of the record of the end of the NEC 'Energoatom' and the state registration of the association. Beautifully simple. But I understand that this was not taken into account. But I was wondering if I understood all the MPs in this answer why they're conducting corporateism, that it's absolute corruption that's being prepared, and it's national total betrayal, and sooner or later they're going to deprive you of mandates like they did today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u140	Please take the position of the 68th Amendment Committee and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u141	So we're back on this whole question or society in big letters or in small letters? I suggest that the hall decide how we should use that word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u142	Thank you. I'm betting on the 68th amendment of Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:00:37]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 70. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u143	Dear friends, I'd like to give you information as the Prime Minister of France argued why the French government would nationalize the nuclear power company EDF. Why? Because corporateism has led to a substantial increase in electricity for consumers. Because when they come, they say, independent rulers, and this whole law that we're offered right now is going to be passed on to an independent controller. Yes, because of the arrival of such independent controllers, the cost of nuclear power for the French, for French consumers, has increased. And that's what corporateization is doing, including our Energoatom, because for our consumers, it's going to be overpriced and excessive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u144	Committee position of 70 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. I'm asking your attention because we vote the seventh time or the word "community" in a small letter or in a capital letter. So please make the right choice by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u146	I'm putting 70 amendments to Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko's vote. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:02:21]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 72. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u147	Yes, the point is that what applies to the corruption model that is now being established by this law is one of the first objectives: the cheap nuclear power that is being given to consumers today to turn electricity into, they say, European value. And for all of this, both our businesses, and our consumers, our people, who are already suffering, are tragically suffering, will still be paying for their nuclear power. This is what we've been through when the same furry people on this stand have done the same things with the NAC Naftogaz and with the Crushing when the gas was traveling nine times. The same will be true of nuclear power. Do not vote for this law. Profits lie to corrupters.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u148	72 Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:03:50]] For-36 The decision is not taken. 83 amendment, Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u149	Dear friends, I just want you to compare, for example, the Government of France cares about its consumers, how it cares about its electricity supply system of the country and how our government and our committee, and, I see, our deputies, part of our deputies, how they are willing to give up the interests of the people, the interests of the country, give up our energy independence, give up our interests to you. For what? The question is why? And I'll tell you what: for the backdrop, for the corruption, for the fact that someone's going to be using nuclear energy, for the fact that our resource is going to be a foreign resource. That's what they're doing right now. Do not vote in favour of all who have a conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u150	The committee's position is brief and still, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I have to comment again, because once again the word "community" refers to the word "community" in a capital or in a small letter. The committee has consulted and still thinks it's small, so it doesn't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u152	83 Ulya Volodymyrna Timoshenko's amendment was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:05:30]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Julia Volodymyrna, 86th, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u153	Clearly, today’s discussion, today’s revisions, today’s discussions on how the Ukrainian Energoat pours out, we will certainly put on social media. If possible, we'll talk about it in our only marathon, we'll lead it to people who are fighting on the front. We will explain the problem of this law and what people are taking away, of course, we will explain. But I want people to compare what price we're now getting nuclear power at, and at what price we're going to get at some point when everything that's prescribed in this law is going to become legal, and that we as Ukraine are not going to affect our largest state corporation by Energoat. I'm sorry that this is happening at all, and that the times of war are three times tragic and embarrassing. And that's why I'm asking all the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u154	Position of the 86th Amendment Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u155	It's already proposed that the word "community" should be written in big letters in all respects. But still, the committee remains in a position that in all respects, the word society has to be written in a small letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u156	I'm putting 86 amendments to Julia Volodymyr's Timoshenko. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:07:12]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 89th. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u157	I hope we're just going to turn around, draw the attention of all society to what's going on with Energoat, precisely because of this discussion today. And each amendment gives me and the members of our team the opportunity to express some of the elements of this law. And I can say that one of the ingredients of this law, that they can, as they write here, non-profile assets sell to the right and to the left. This means that someone has already placed an eye on the Earth of Energoatum, on certain property complexes of Energoatum, and I think that's just the beginning. And I'll also say it in the next direction, it's also about the social sphere. And I think it's already happened in the Crucifixion, it's already happened in the Crucifixion, it's also happened in the Naftogazi NAC, well, now it's on its way to Energoatum. But I think I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u158	Please, head of the committee, 89 revisions. Short.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u159	The committee rejected the amendment, viewing it as pointless.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u160	89 Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, rejected. Please identify and vote. [[12:08:53]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 93, Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u161	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u162	93rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u163	93rd, okay. Dear friends! I also want to draw your attention to the fact that Energoatoma now has the entire infrastructure. First, the treatment of personnel at Energoatom stations, secondly, is a vocational education that must be given to those who work at Energoatom. So Energy is a whole complex that ensures the safety of the nuclear industry as a whole. And what this law provides for is that all of this will be practical with Energoatom when changing to a stockholder society, says that no one cares about the health of those who work at nuclear power plants or their education, only cash, profits.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the 93rd Amendment of Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify yourself and vote. [[12:10:22]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 95. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u165	Dear friends! 95 percent, I want to point out in the report on this right that Energoatom is a huge component of our energy independence, and it's a huge, huge component, in principle, of our state's independence. And if, as prescribed in this law, after the creation of an equity corporation of governance rights will be transferred from the government unknown to the complex authorities, including today told me that, in principle, it is necessary to give administration to foreign participants, then when it is done, it will be much better. But we're going to lose our ability to be independent.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u166	95 Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:11:50]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Next 97th, Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u167	Well, and I would also like to focus on what the French government has done about nationalizing and halting the stockholding society of EDF because it has allowed the country to completely refuse to step away from fossil fuels and thus strengthen, including green energy. But in our case, in our case, it's an excess ingredient. And what we are doing right now is what the old European countries, the countries of the European Union, are doing, they are saying that we are moving, not by logic, but by someone's corrupt interests. And I am addressing all the deputies, don't support the corrupt interests of all those behind this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u168	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u169	The French government is actually buying shares, and this is going to become state-owned shares, but the shares aren't going to go away. This is going to be Electricite de France, one hundred percent of which is going to be owned by the state. The same is true of us: 100 percent of the shares of Energoatom will be owned by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u170	97 Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:13:34]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 100. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u171	Dear friends, I have to refute the committee head's words because there are public statements by the prime minister of France that said that the idea was nationalized and turned into a state company. It was a very clear statement from the rostrum of the French Parliament and that's what you can verify. And I think that we will also give these quotations publicly in order to make it clear that today's power in Ukraine is acting against national interests, against common sense, against Ukraine's energy independence, and in the interests of a bunch of people who are today in the midst of war are considering Ukraine's most valuable assets. It understands in a variety of ways, but it is, unfortunately, the reality of our being -- the land, the Naftogaz, the Crushing, is now Energo.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u172	Amendment 100 July Volodymyrni Timoshenko. The committee's dismissed. Please make up your mind and vote. [[12:15:03]] For-43 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 103. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u173	Yeah, 103 revisions is exactly what I've been talking about. And I'm asking you to explain your position. This is about the sixth part of the second article, paragraph 2. It seems appropriate that all objects of the social infrastructure of Energoatom be transferred to the statutory capital of this new society. In this regard, it is suggested that the project be removed, which provides for the possibility of transferring such objects to municipal property. Why do you deprive Energoat of social objects, why do you do that? Explain, please, if it's really, well, it's still working the same structure as you say. Why are you working against workers and thus maximizing profits at the expense of corrupt people? Explain, please. And why you're doing this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u174	A brief committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u175	The committee rejected the amendment because the issue was settled in a different way. So the committee's decision is to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u176	103 Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:16:41]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. The next amendment is 107. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u177	106th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u178	Ah, 106th. 106th, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u179	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I'm asking you a question. Please tell me why you're taking objects in the social sphere, despite what you promised the Energoatom trade unions, and now you're taking them to Energoatom and transferring them to the community? It is the social sphere needed to protect the health of the atoms in order to protect their entire lives in order to educate them in order to protect their children in order to protect them from radiation radiation from the people living in the zone. Tell me, who gave you that right, and what alternative do you propose? Tell me more clearly, why are you doing this in spite of a breach of business arrangement? They don't know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u180	Short position of the 106-way committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u181	106 on the right, the position is that it's back to society -- in big or small letters, and the committee for being in small letters. And if it's because of what Julia Volodymyrna said, then it's a committee. This bill here doesn't transfer any property, it just creates the shares of Energoate, which is owned by the state. Other processes take place at the level of Energoatom’s leadership. Who needs to rest, where, on which bases, this bill is not regulated.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u182	The 106th Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:18:38]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next 107th. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u183	Well, I think it's now clear to all the people's deputies that when such an energy company is formed from the state energy company Energoatoma, the entire social sphere of Energoatom, which protected the employees of Energoatom, their families, protected the people who live in a certain proximity to nuclear power plants, the whole social sphere is essentially de facto eliminated. Because when Energoatoma stops funding these social facilities, there is no way that the communities have such funding. Well, on such an example, you have to understand what they're doing to Energoate. Why are they taking away the social sphere, do you understand? To make a maximum profit on people's lives, and to make the maximum profit for those who will run the scenes of our Energoatoma and have corrupt assets on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u184	107 amendment, position of committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, and this revision, and the next amendment, and the next one, is that the word "community" is written in a capital or in a small letter. We insist that in a small letter. Perhaps all three amendments will be put to the vote immediately?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u186	I'm putting in the 107th Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:20:25]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next 108th. Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u187	Well, I think the head of the committee, well, considering his preferences, would be good to vote in general for the surrender of all national interests of Ukraine, just as it seemed national interests when it was allowed to receive here and pay for Russian electricity. In principle, it was also good, and it also found its reasons, its explanations. Just as now the national interest in the energy system and the provision of cheap electricity to Ukraine find all the explanations, but there is no explanation. And while I'm going to be able to make the next announcement, I'm just going to give you an example of why this is all a lie, and you're going to understand that. It's going to be very easy, because the specific thing that I've been introducing, it hasn't been taken into account, and you'll understand why.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u188	Committee position 108. Will you vote now or will you vote now?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u189	It's a similar position, because it's again about a letter that says society. We think it's from a small one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u190	I'm offering 108 July Volodymyrna Timoshenko. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:22:08]] For-61 The decision is not taken. The next 109 is an amendment. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u191	Look, I'm for those who still doubt that huge mega-corruption is legalizing the hall right now. You know, the law that we're looking at right now is called the Act of Shareholder Society, the National Atomic Energy Company. The first amendment that our team made is the name of this law to change and call it: about the specifics of creation and function: attention! - The National Atomic Energy Company. So in the title of the bill, we wanted to make it clear that this is a state-owned stockholder society, not just a stockholder society. But the committee did not accept this amendment. And why didn't he take it? But it's very clear, because this law in this way is the first stage, this is the first stage, corporateization, and then everybody.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u192	Please, committee head, 109 amendment, what is your position, committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u193	109 The amendment was rejected by the committee because of its unwarrantedness.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u194	109 Volodymyrna’s amendment, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:23:48]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Next 110. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u195	So I would like to continue that when a bill that we have clearly proposed to call a bill on State Shareholder Society, and when the word "State" is not included, it means that it's all strategically prepared deception. And when the first version of this bill was presented, and the first version that we had with you right now in the Supreme Council was completely intelligent and absolutely correct, so in the first instance one of the first articles of the law, it was written that the transformation of Energoatom into a private stockholder society. But that law was broken, and they wrote this law more cunningly, because when they write "share association," they immediately bring up the relevant special Act on Shareholder Associations, where they are entitled to do whatever they want to do with these shares.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, the 110th Amendment of Julius Volodymyrny Timoshenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:25:18]] For-37 The decision is not taken. 111th, Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u197	Yes, dear colleagues, and I'd like to tell you these things. When this is reregistered, the first thing this law requires is independence, independence from the State of administration of this object. When the first version of this law was considered, there was a unique formulation that the management functions of the enterprise were incorporated into the statutory capital of the Energy Company. So, in other words, the Ukrainian government is giving up any function under the management of the NAEC "Energotoma". Now they've prescribed it a little bit more cunningly, but you have to know that as soon as this law is implemented, the government of Ukraine will not run the Energoatoma. You can't vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u198	111th Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:26:43]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Julia Volodymyrna, can we put 112 to the vote right now or not? 112th next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u199	We have 107 on our way.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u200	Julia Volodymyrna, we have already voted 111.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u201	Uh, 111. 112th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u202	Can we put her to the vote now?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u203	I'll report to 112.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u204	Oh, you will. Please, 112th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u205	Dear friends, I would also like to emphasize to you that this is also about who makes the decision. Electricity, energy's cheapest electricity, it's going to be sold inside the country, it's going to be sold to Ukrainian consumers or it's going to be sold for export. Today this decision is made by the government because the government owns our state-owned energy company Energoat and they manage the balance of Energoatom and the balance of our energy system in general. If this is accepted, there will be a completely different history of energy exports from Energoatom.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u206	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u207	Nevertheless, the Rules require that when amendments are made, we speak as amended. So in this case again about society, whether in large or in small letters, the committee thinks that in a small letter, the word "sociality" should be used.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u208	I'm putting 112 amendments to Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko's authorship. Please vote. [[12:28:28]] For-51 The decision is not taken. The next 113 is an amendment. Julius Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u209	Look, you've already gotten that letter. Well, back up the big letter committee and we'll get all the paperwork. Well, you also need to act a little more intelligently, and you're acting non-intellectually. It's a problem, you know? As far as electricity exports are concerned. My dear friends, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when the administration goes to the unknown shareholding authorities, which will not be known to include anyone, cheap nuclear power may not go to the internal market, but it could go to export, where the price, well, is about 10 times higher for this electricity than in Ukraine. And that's what attracts today those behind the scenes of "reformers" (in quotes) to take control of the Energoatoma. Do not uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u210	113th Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:29:54]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 117, Julius Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u211	This is also a matter of land. And we're talking here about land. And in general, this is our position: land, all assets, all objects of social infrastructure that are now owned by Energoatom, they must be owned by Energoatom. And no one without a government decision has the right to manage this property. Unfortunately, all of this law allows such a newly created stockholder society to manage the assets of Energoatom, except for the generating companies, to its own judgment. You can't let that happen in any case, it's just a waste of Energoatom's property. Do not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u212	117 Tymoshenko repairs. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:31:20]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 119, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u213	Dear friends, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that by 2017, there was an energy plant in Ukraine that allowed for a single package of cheap hydropower, cheap nuclear power, and expensive heat. All of this was combined into a single pool, a British model, and for Ukrainian consumers, we received the uniform cost of electricity, which was the lowest on the European continent. This provided a huge supply of power for the growth of the economy and for the support of Ukrainian families. If this law is adopted, the return to this energy plant will no longer be possible, it will practically be a corrupt structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, 119th Amendment. It's rejected by the committee. Please, colleagues, identify and vote. [[12:32:49]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Next 121. Timishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u215	Well, dear friends, we've moved on to, I think, 121, right? The 121st? Well, look, the company pays dividends to the state budget from a net profit on the basis of a decision made by the entity of the company’s general congregation. Well, you can imagine, yes, that's going to be a blow to the state budget, because until today, before this law is passed, the revenue of NAEC "Energotoma" is managed by the government, of course, and that's the revenue of the state budget. And yet the profits of Energoatom will be managed by some entity of government who is unknown to you and who will determine what to give to the State and people of Ukraine and what to wash away for corruption. Would you support that? I'm just surprised at the position of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u216	The 121th Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko Committee Rejected. Please vote. [[12:34:16]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Next, 122nd. Julia Volodymyrna, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u217	We offered a perfectly logical model in our writings. That it was not an entity that you and I were not aware of that defined what part of Energoatom’s income would be given to the budget, but we suggested that 80 percent of Energoatom’s income should be directed to the state budget. I don’t understand how an unknown entity can make the profits of Energoatom available to an unknown entity, which can be very large if it is properly and unprofitably managed by the company. And so we ask for support for an amendment that says that 80 percent of Energoatom's profits remain in the state budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u218	122 repairs, Timoshenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:35:32]] For-43 The decision is not taken. The next 123 is an amendment. Timishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u219	Now let's talk about how the financial plans for the year Energoatom will be approved. This has always been done by the government of Ukraine. They studied all of Energoatom's income, all of Energoatom's needs, its expenditures, they created a financial balance for a year, and Energoat had to keep this balance clearly, and the corresponding share of the income went to the State budget of Ukraine. Now the government will no longer have the right to do so. And what they predict here is that the government will no longer approve of Energoatom's financial plans, the government will not control Energoat at all. Say what? If it is national property, the people of Ukraine, through their government, are obliged to control their property.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u220	One hundred twenty. Oh, my God, 123 amendments, she's been rejected by the committee, by Timoshenko. I'm putting her to the vote. Please vote. [[12:37:05]] For-39 The decision is not taken. 124th, Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u221	I mean, my fellow Members, if you vote for this bill, it will mean that the people of Ukraine, through the government of Ukraine, are no longer in control of the activities of the NAEC "Energot". That this is essentially becoming an uncontrollable structure for the people of Ukraine, which means that the people of Ukraine will not be able to perform the functions of the owner of this object and will not be able to influence their property. Property will be cut off from Ukraine and from the Ukrainian people. That's what you're voting on today. Who will rule? There will be some unknown entities who will be assigned behind their backs in Ukraine and who will have both profits and profits from this enterprise of national ownership. You can't vote this law, don't do it, I'm asking you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u222	124 fixes Timoshenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:30]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next 125th. Please, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u223	Well, dear friends, here we continue and talk about the organs of society management. The governing bodies of the company are being prescribed in detail here, and they will be acting completely autonomously. And this is where the Society's Supervisory Board is formed, where it's completely unclear who's going to be there and who's going to be put in there. It says things that, in my opinion, directly contradict the logic of government property, the national property of Energoat. I can tell you that once this law is passed, and the government of the state and the people will be destroyed, the energy security of the state, the energy independence of the state will be destroyed. We cannot vote in favour of this bill under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u224	125th Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:39:58]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Next 131 revisions. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u225	Dear friends, here also in article 4, we propose that for the property that is today in the NAEC Energy Atoms, it be banned for privatization and secured by society on the right, in fact, property. And we also propose that this law be set up for NAC Naftogazu property. More loyal to Energoatom that they are not privatized. It is very important that nothing in the form of the Energoatom is sold out, in secret, hidden, corrupt. So you can't sell the property that's part of the Energoatom without any procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u226	131 corrections, Timoshenko. The committee's dismissed. I ask you to identify yourself and vote. [[12:41:25]] For-36 The decision is not taken. 132 revisions. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u227	And this is a continuation of this previous amendment, which we would like to pay attention to. We suggest that these unknown organs of society, which are not reporting to anyone, do not answer anyone at all so that they do not have the right to make decisions about alienation, transfer to use, rent, leasing, management, mortgage, free use to the statutory capitals of farming facilities in common activities and other things. So they have no right to own the Energoatom in this way, in shares or anything else. That is to say that we cannot give the authorities of the company the right to manage, not the shares, not the property, not the nuclear materials used in the process of producing electricity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u228	132 revisions. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:52]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Next 134. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u229	You see, from what we're voting now, we're not voting more faithfully, you see from the fact that they didn't accept the committee, that they really don't want to put these fuses up, they don't want to. So imagine, we've listed in our papers all the absolute elements of how we deal with shares and also with the property of the Energoatom that we can't allow. We counted it all, but they turned it down, they turned it down. Because they want to take advantage of this opportunity, to put shares or ownership of Energoatom in the statutory capital of other companies, they can hand it over as collateral, and there's something else to do with Energoatom's property, and that's why they didn't accept it because they're planning to do it. Just know that this is a lie all they say about a state enterprise. They are.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u230	134th Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:44:18]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 135. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u231	I just want to conclude that the real intentions of the people who represent power behind the drafting of this bill are reflected, not in the text of this bill, but in the laws that are rejected. And you're going to keep looking at it, you're going to keep looking at what's going to happen. They refused to apply the word "State Shareholder Society." Now they've turned down an amendment that forbids manipulation of any shares or property of Energoatom. And that's just proof that they're planning to do it. This is proof that what they are talking about is a lie. I'm asking you, national deputies, to think about it. We have wealth like Energoat.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u232	134th. 135th Amendment, I'm sorry, Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:56]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Next 137th. Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u233	Yeah, well, now it's the same. So we've been trying to make this right clear what we can't do with property or with other aspects that belong to Energoatum. What are we asking? That the rightfulness or decision of any person whose results have been or may be alienated from society of any burden on the property of nuclear power plants and other nuclear facilities, nuclear materials, objects designed to deal with radioactive wastes that are not subject to privatization are worthless from the moment they are committed, unlawful from the moment they are adopted. So we're clarifying that any such action is illegal from the moment they're adopted. But this readjustment is being rejected because they want to do something different.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u234	The 137th Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:24]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Next 139th. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u235	Well, dear friends, what I want to tell you is, in fact, I'm in every direction that I've just announced to you, where specific prohibitions, and clear prohibitions, dealing with Energoatom's property, dealing with Energoatom's shares, any way that the state loses them, you've seen that all of these adjustments are rejected, all of them are rejected. I think that if the intentions of the authorities who put their eyes on Energoat were honest, all these changes would have been accepted. But they don't accept them. And that is exactly what I want to talk to the people of Ukraine about today and in the coming months and weeks, as they are being lied to during the war. I want to bring this to every Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u236	139th Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:53]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Next 142, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u237	Dear friends! I think if we just go back with you today to the promises we made to Ukraine, we go back to those promises that you made in your election, and you remember them well, all the promises were that every Ukrainian was the president, that every Ukrainian would make decisions about the life of the state, if you remember and honestly, when you look at the people of Ukraine in the eye, you would work in parliament, you would never support this law, ever. Because it is a great deception, a great abuse of Ukraine, and it is the deprivation of Ukraine’s national wealth. Don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u238	142 Tymoshenko repairs. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:50:23]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 143. Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u239	142nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u240	We just voted 142nd, Julia Volodymyrna. You have 143 now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u241	Today, when we discussed at the rostrum, faction leaders led by the Supreme Council head, to remove this Energoat Act altogether, I heard a very strange argument: I was told that Ukraine could not manage such objects as Energoat, it was unable because there is Derkachi, someone else is engaged in corruption (they said authorities) that should be given to Energoat to foreign companies, and let them put order there, use profit and place this company in normal management standards. This means that Ukraine is being wiped out of life.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, 143 revisions. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:54]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 144th. Timishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u243	Yeah, so I want to go on with it. When it comes to Ukraine, the Ukrainian authorities, the Ukrainian government, the Ukrainian people being unable to manage such objects as Energoat, it means that these people who represent power also share this disgraceful definition that Ukraine is a state that has failed, and that foreign participants must be involved, foreign corporations to manage our national corporations in their interests. This means being completely incompetent to rule the state. And if the Ukrainian authorities today are in no position to manage such objects as Energoat, the Ukrainian authorities today must say that they are incapable of managing Ukraine and that another system of governance is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, 144 amendments, Timoshenko, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:53:32]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 146.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u245	And now I'd like to explain to you in a few of the following ways that there is no state in the world -- the United States, France, Germany, Italy -- but it doesn't matter, you can call any hypermarket country in the world, where at least 25 percent of all property does not belong to the state, it wasn't governed by a state where the state didn't build a clear, absolutely framework system rule. And only one country in Ukraine wants to take away everything that is in Ukraine under the noise of war, under the pain and tragedy of war, by using war today. And today Parliament will be divided into two parts: who is responsible, who is against it, who is the statesman, and who is against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u246	146 amendments, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:54:59]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Next 148. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u247	So our team, in every village, in every area, we think it's for the energy vote to make a sign vote, to bring to the people of Ukraine in every district, in every area, to report, as the parliament of Ukraine shares: to the statesmen, to those who defend the national interests of Ukraine, and to those who today, by cultural arrangements, agree with corrupt large structures, with large lobbyist structures, provide the national wealth of Ukraine. In Energoate this will be obvious. The printing of the vote must be a guide for the people of Ukraine, which was done during the war behind their backs, who and how they decided against the interests of the people. And to those who vote and how, think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, 148 amendments. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:27]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Next 150th. Timishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u249	And, dear friends, I would also like to have before this law, for God's sake, voted and entered into legal force, and we will be deprived as a country of the right to manage this property, to use profit, to use cheap electricity, before this is done, I would like to have a temporary commission of inquiry on this Supreme Council that can be drawn up in the last three years, how much energy was taken from Energoatom and then on speculative terms it was transferred into its own private structures, how much money had been spent on Energoatom through questionable equipment. And I hope you will support the creation of such a temporary commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, Tymoshenko’s 150th amendment was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:57]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Next 151, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u251	I'm not just talking about how cheap nuclear power has been used in the last three years, because we have reliable information about the number of companies, private companies that are close to the top leaders of the state, and who have been given such an unspoken permission to have contracts for the purchase of nuclear power contrary to the interests of the state. And then these companies resold nuclear power to Ukrainian consumers on the trip. These were corrupt devices. After this law has been passed, unfortunately, it will become a norm. This will be a norm and corruption in the law, as in the law, will unfortunately be the reality of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, the 151 - year amendment of Timoshenko was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:26]] For-43 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 158. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u253	Yes, dear friends, the next issue. This is about a regulation that applies that only by agreement with the government can a corresponding nuclear power plant. and the central executive bodies that ensure the formation and implementation of state policy in the field of nuclear energy security, only by agreeing with these structures can any decision be taken on the radiological control of the product that is produced. I'd like to take this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u254	158 revisions. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:00:39]] For-44 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 159. Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u255	The following right relates to the State registration of real estate rights transferred to the statutory capital of the Shareholder Society, established under the Ukrainian Act on the Specificities of the Establishment and Functioning of the State Shareholder Society "National Atomic Energy generating Company "Energotoma" and that this is based solely on the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine concerning the transfer of property. Here we have two elements. First. We're talking about the fact that it's an exclusively state-owned stock company and that any transfer of property from Energoatom is made by a government decision. These are very important things to preserve the integrity of the Energoatom complex. I'm asking you to support this. I also forgive all other amendments and do not vote in favour of this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u256	159 repairs, Timoshenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:02:06]] For-48 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 160. Timishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u257	The following law applies to the person who decides on the state registration of property rights, the right of state property, for which it has been registered. It's very important. And the main thing in this paragraph is that such decisions can only be made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That's it! And I would like to take into account that the position of the project is that the document that confirms the origin, the transition, the termination of the rights to property transferred by the founder to the statutory capital of the society is a transfer act, approved exclusively by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, exclusively. It's very important. And I'm asking you to support this amendment, and I'm asking you not to explicitly support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u258	160 revision of Tymoshenko's authorship. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:32]] For-49 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 161. Timishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u259	I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that all the adjustments that I've just listed and which hall I haven't supported, all of these adjustments, they're meant to establish order in which any land, any property of Energoatom, shares of the Energy Company, they can't be transferred to anyone under any circumstances without a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. You've just failed all of these checks in the hall, and all of these changes haven't been made, and that will mean that there's no telling what management entities will be assigned to this Energoat stockholder company will be able to manage property, land, and Energoatom's shares for their own judgment that deprives the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u260	161 repair, Timoshenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:02]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next 162. Please, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u261	Paragraph 5 of part 3 of article 6 is deleted. The provisions of a project that provides for the exclusion and prohibition set forth in article 11, part nine, cannot be supported, under which the immovable property of state-owned property that is not subject to privatization cannot be alienated, removed, transferred to the statutory capital of a commercial organization, and such property cannot be acted upon as a result of their alienation. That is, the whole story of the uncontrolled treatment of Energoatom’s property is still being proposed. We believe that such things must be normalized. And what we have not accepted is that they want to leave Energoatom's property uncontrollable, and that means that the people of Ukraine will be deprived of their property.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u262	162 Tymoshenko repairs. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:34]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 164th. Timishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u263	The next few lines, I'd like to talk to you about the balance, the balance of energy at all, the balance of our state. You know that our nation's energy balance is, especially now, we understand, just the necessity of our lives. If we're going to be torn out of the context of a management system like Energoat, if we're going to be given to export electricity or leave it inside a country where the prices are sold, the volumes are going to be sold, it's going to mean that it's virtually impossible to balance our nation's energy balance, which is directly in conflict with our nation's national energy security. Therefore, this law cannot be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u264	164th Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:02]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 165th, Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u265	Yeah, I just want to continue this topic of energy balance. You remember well when there were energy crises in our country without war. You well remember when you destroyed the British model’s energy supply, how fast we had to raise the cost of electricity for people. She's up nine times. Why did she get up? Because from the balance of electricity prices, they took out cheap nuclear power and started selling thermal power on their own and, of course, the tariffs on this had changed a lot because when the average price included atomic, heat and hydro, the price was lower. And now I'm going to tell you how this is going to affect the future life of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u266	165 revisions, Timoshenko. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:09:28]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Julia Volodymyrna, 166 amendment, author of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u267	Yes, and so I want to continue that when energy is now being allocated to an energy company with a separate management system, not subordinated to government, not subordinated to Ukraine's energy balance, we will never again be able to go back to creating an energy market with an average price of nuclear, hydrothermal energy, and give the average value that was the lowest on the European continent and allow Ukraine to develop. This would be especially relevant after the war when it comes to restoring the economy when it comes to restoring the lives of families. But this is the law you're crossing out and you're putting cheap nuclear power into a corrupt lobbying environment, into private possession.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u268	Dear colleagues, 166 revisions. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u269	Dear colleagues, a moment of your attention, please. This amendment 166 is again about the question of society, from which letter, from large or small. We've heard a lot of arguments today, I think logic is certainly, and let's try to support this amendment and maybe so that in this case the society is in big letters. So, personally, I'm going to vote in favour of this amendment, number 166.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, 166 revisions of Tymoshenko, she asks to be taken into account. And I'm putting it in the frame of 166 of Timoshenko's amendment. Please vote. [[13:11:41]] For 256 Decision taken. Amendment 166 is included. Show the factions, please. Thank you. 191th, Julia Volodymyrna, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u271	Dear friends, I want to explain why this vote was held, you're smart people, and you understand that it's not just that. They just wanted to see if there were any votes in the room for this disgraceful, crazy bill. They're going to count how many votes there are, and they're going to list the voices of those who aren't going to vote for this shit, and they're going to see whether there are voices or not. If there are no votes, they're going to stop this show now, if there are voices, they're going to bring it to a logical conclusion. So just know that there's just been this little test right now. But I hope that it's not just the technology of this room that they're going to be testing what the vote might be, and I very much hope that after the war the people who come back from the war will check how they voted in this room are going to make similar decisions. And we're going to be very helpful to them. Therefore, do not vote for all who have reason and honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u272	191 Timoshenko's amendment, she's rejected by the committee. I ask you to identify yourself and vote. [[13:13:20]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next 204 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u273	Dear friends! I have two left-handers, one hundred left-handers of our faction members, so don't relax. I can tell you the next thing is that it's not a joke and it's not a show, and it's not just your own desire to do with the strategic property of Ukraine. And I can say that in most of the countries where nuclear power was built at the expense of government, nuclear power was government, including France, where more than 70 percent of electricity was produced at nuclear power stations. What you're doing now contradicts common sense, national interests, people's interests, contradicts Ukraine's post-war recovery strategy because it deprives Ukraine of cheap electricity. I'm asking all the normal people not to vote for it because it's absurd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u274	Dear colleagues, the 204th Amendment of Timoshenko. The committee's dismissed. I ask you to vote. [[13:14:50]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 215 repairs, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u275	And the last right, dear friends, I want to warn you that the results of voting for this law will be made sufficiently accessible to people. We're going to print in every district, district, city newspaper where we can, on the Internet, where we can get it, we're going to hand it over to people so that every person in Ukraine knows how every deputy voted for the transfer to the corrupt equipment of our Energoatom. And we're also going to inform everyone who works in Energoatom that they've cleaned up the social sphere here and that they've been left without health care, without an education system in the Energoatom system. I just want the Ukrainian people to know that Parliament is dividing into two parts: the statesmen who are in Ukraine and those who are willing to give up Ukraine by pressing the green button on the order of corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u276	215 revisions. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:19]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, Julia Volodymyrna, you are finished. Thank you. Please tell me, is there anyone else who will insist? There'll be another confirmation amendment. Will Kucherenko be there? Puppy, please. Let's go to Kucherenko first. Pussy, that's where I wrote it. What's your position?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u277	Thank you. Mr. Head, I'd like to ask, given that I have a large number of rights, but with respect to the deputies, I'd like to ask, I've got some substantial changes, they're technical. I'd like to ask you to give me a five-minute opportunity to speak on the evaluation of this law and the situation in general, and then the adjustments that I consider essential, I'll ask you to put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u278	Please, five minutes of the show, huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u279	Yeah. I'll try by five.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u280	Please, in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u281	Dear Ukrainians! Deputies! Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. A few fundamental points that I would like to draw your attention to before we vote in favour of such an important bill. What does society expect of us today, what do we do? Well, we do what we call a corporation. It's a little bit later. And we realize that today millions of Ukrainians are indignant and unhappy because they can't be comfortable on schedules, it's enough to get electricity because even the graphs are broken. And they ask a simple, banal question. We have atomic energy. Okay, the Consignor's nuclear station isn't in balance right now, 6 blocks aren't controlled by Ukraine. But there are 9 blocks, there's heat stations, there's hydropower, and in fact, this balance, given the dramatic decline in consumption, would have to be enough for Ukrainians. Because I don't know how you do it, I have a major question in my election meetings: why are we sitting 10, 15, 20 hours without light? I'm sure your voters are asking you the same question. And you know, even though I consider myself an expert, I can't give an exhaustive answer. Because it seems, really, that we should have enough nuclear power to satisfy the needs of the population in the first place. Maybe before we can corporateize, try to answer Ukrainians, why can't energy provide, despite objective reasons, damage to network generation, transformers, substations, why is that happening? That's the first question. Now for the second question. Friends, give me the answer to one question, and the Ukrainians. If you admit that the government of Ukraine, which is currently in charge of the NEC Energy Company, if it's not able to manage effectively, and I understand that's why you're doing corporate work, you're convincing us, Ukrainians who are in charge. Excuse me, supervisory board, and the other managers there, they can run this company better than the government. So I'm asking you, what the fuck, is this government in this situation? Why is there a monocolation that can't control its government and control its energy, including the state-owned company NAEC "Energot"? Could it be easier, perhaps, to change the government to an effective but effective management of the National Energy Share Company Energoat as well as Naftogaz, Ukrenergo and other state companies? I did not hear the answer. There's one more question. Tell me, please, but corporateism during the war, as many Julius Volodymyrna said, is a very relevant issue. But there is a second question. Ukraine is not currently in control of the Zaporez nuclear station, which is Europe's most powerful nuclear power plant. What are you going to corporateize? How do you even know what's going on in Energodar? Do you realize what's really going on at the station? What are you corporateizing, in what way and for what? I have one more question. And please tell me that the nuclear station is not just a generation of cheap, relative to cheap, electricity, it's still a question of very powerful nuclear security, which is not only of interest to Ukrainians today, they're interested in the whole world and the whole of Europe, of course. To this day, as a minimum, I realize that the government is responsible for nuclear safety in nuclear energy objects, which, in effect, governs Energoat. And after your so-called "harparatization," who will be responsible for nuclear safety? Think 10 times before voting for this, well, not very well thought out law. I agree that maybe in a peaceful time, when there's an investment climate here, you can look for some, well, positive moments in corporateism, but today they're not from the word "absolutely," there's no moment. And the last. And show me to the Ukrainians, and what kind of state corporation works effectively today. Maybe it's NAC Naftogaz, maybe, Ukrenergo? Don't be ridiculous. So think about it 10 times before.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u282	Thank you. Alexy Yuriovich, you said you'd make two more adjustments, right? Turn it on, please, Pussy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u283	I didn't say two. I said it's a major correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u284	It's okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u285	But they are technical, really. I wouldn't want to go there in a big, small letter, but I'm important.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u286	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Thank you. Please, Cymbaluk, five minutes. After that, it's Volinec. Please tell us the numbers, then. Please turn on Kucherenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u287	Thank you. We're moving in the right direction, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u288	Yes, Kucherenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u289	Thank you. First order of business. Andrew Mikhailovich, honourable chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u290	Please call the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u291	First. One, I'm telling you. Andrew Mikhailovich, there is an offer that will solve all our problems today: both countries, and deputies, and all. Our first amendment, along with a colleague, is to delete the text of the bill completely. And that's the answer to all of my questions. How do you feel about it? Why don't you support it and we'll vote for it?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u292	The position of the committee after the first amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u293	Alexy Yuriovich, well, I'm a prisoner here because I represent the committee's position, not my own. That's why the committee, unfortunately, rejected the amendment, and I have to announce the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u294	You're asking me to set it up, aren't you? I put the first amendment on the table, it's rejected by the committee. Please vote and determine. [[13:24:05]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Please, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u295	Too bad the MPs certainly didn't support it. But let's try, maybe they'll keep up. The sixth amendment, with your permission, Mr. Head, which is proposed with colleagues, Mr. Tsimbaluk and Volinz, is to state in the Final Positions that the position of the End should be supplemented by one paragraph: "At the time of the war and within three months of the date of its cessation or cancellation, the transformation (reorganization, corporateization) of the state-owned enterprise of the NAEC "Energoat" is prohibited. So logic is, we support your corporateism in principle, but we say, really not in time, we wait for the end of the war, we wait for potential investors and we're actually going to do corporate work. Would you support me, Andry Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u296	6 repairs to Puppy. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:29]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Please, Alexi Juryovich, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u297	Thank you. 10 revisions, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u298	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u299	In fact, it's suggested that after the words "creating a new corporation," it's about the same model to complete the bill's preamble, which after the words "creating a new corporation," it's not until three months after the date of the end or the end of the state of war. Perhaps it is from a large, though small, letter, but perhaps it may be supported by the MPs, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u300	Please 10 Corrections to Pussy. It's rejected. Please identify and vote. [[13:26:24]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Puppy. Next what?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u301	The next 12th, it's very simple, but we burned it with our colleagues. Unfortunately, the committee didn't support it, maybe the hall would support it. It is suggested that article 1 of the bill be deleted in general. In principle, this solves a lot of problems for Ukraine's energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u302	Please, the 12th Amendment of Kucherenka, it's rejected. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:03]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Please, Kucherenko. What's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u303	Thank you. 15th, Mr. Head, which is proposed, 15th amendment, paragraph 1 of the first part of article 1, which, unfortunately, you have not implemented today, the bill is proposed to be supplemented by the phrase "but not before three months from the date of cessation or cancellation of the state of war." So we think that corporates can still be successful, but at a time when they need to be successful, when they have a chance to be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u304	Thank you. The 15th Amendment of Kucherenka, it was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:28:01]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Please, what's next, Pussy?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u305	19th, Mr. Head. Stability is a sign of skill. 41 votes. Let's try it now, maybe we can outrun it. This 19 bill is proposed there to the point of state acquisition as a result of the formation of the company's shares do not have to be privatized to add another phrase, i.e. not subject to the privatization of the company's shares, nor to the property of the enterprise that is owned by the State at the beginning of the transformation procedure. Andrew Mikhailovich, how do you feel?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u306	The 19th Amendment of Kucherenka, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:00]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Please, Alexy Yuriovich, maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u307	Okay. I'll try not to abuse it, but, dear colleagues, I would also like a very important law, if you don't mind. It's important to me because it's not a creation, it's a transformation, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Andry Mikhailovich. Maybe you can support this one, because it's not about making it, it's about turning it from one status to another? Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u308	24 Amendment to Kucherenka, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:53]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Next what?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u309	Thank you. Colleagues, it's 48, not 41. You know, I want to be kind though, with respect to you, I see that there is no desire for my amendment with colleagues to support. But I'd like to ask a colleague of mine to speak to Mr. Mikhail Zimbaluku, he's the same way as he is to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u310	We agreed, at first, to tell me that Volintz and then Zimbaluk. Right? Volintz, no, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u311	Yeah, or Wolintz, look.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u312	What about Cymbaluk? No, no, Cymbaluk asked for another five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u313	Dear Mr. Head, your honor! In fact, after the energy security expert Kucherenko, after the fact, the leader of the Julia Timoshenko faction made a clear position and a warning to this bill, I don't think it's necessary to hold off on time, especially today's Friday, even the 13th and preceding New Year's Eve. Please put this bill to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u314	Thank you. Dear colleagues, will no one ever insist on repairs? Another amendment. You want to put on confirmation, don't you? Please, Mayor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u315	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The law is generally good, and I urge you to support it, and it has far more benefits than negatives. However, there is an important amendment that I do not think I need to support, which can harm this law at all. This is number 163, unfortunately, it was counted by the committee in part. I'm asking you to put it on a full-time basis and not support it. This amendment essentially takes energy from civil relations. What does that mean? It is forbidden by compulsory execution of court decisions to collect debts from Energoat during military activities in Ukraine. It's nonsense. You don't get paid, you're an employee of Energoatom, you want to get paid, you can't get paid in court. You're a contractor who provides services, you can't get your money in court. This places a huge mine. And if we accept this norm, it's going to be a huge precedent, because other participants in relationships will come and ask for similar changes in other areas. That's why I'm asking you not to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-13-m0.u316	Dear colleagues, 163 amendments to the authorship of Montenegro. It's partially accounted for. At the same time, the national deputy Zupanin requests that the committee make such a decision for confirmation. So I'm going to put the proposed proposal to confirm the 163 amendment of Blackmaurov in an editorial that is partially considered by the committee. Please vote. [[13:33:03]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, all the national MPs have completed their amendments, right? My dear colleagues, unfortunately, have not completed our consideration of the issues, but we have exhausted the time spent in the meeting today. Thank you all for your productive work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its next extension. Please do not disseminate this information about its beginning. We continue to work to win. And the glory of Ukraine!
