ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the ruling we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today we continue our plenary session. I point out that, according to the rulings adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the recess in plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decisions taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a pause in the plenary meeting and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is in your workplace and also when you leave the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 390th day of the full-scale military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. Ukraine continues to fight for its freedom and independence. In these days, our thoughts are certainly with the heroic supporters of Ukraine, our Armed Forces, all those who not only restrain the enemy, but also prepare our great victory, and our thoughts in these days with the unbreakable Mariupol, who a year ago courageously held up the defense against the aggressor who invaded our land. Today we also mention the victims of the Buchan tragedy, where there was a mass murder of the Ukrainian civilian population, where the Ukrainian people suffered a violent genocide. In our memory, every city and every name. Today and forever, our hearts are with the legendary soldier Da Vinci, the commander of the special unit, the hero of Ukraine, Dmitri Cotsubail. We will never forgive. We will surely punish the murderers of the beast shot in captivity by our famous soldier Alexander Macievsky, whose final words were the words "Slav Ukraine." Those words will surely be the judgment of his murderers, as will all who have committed murder, torture, and thievery. The punishment of criminals will be irreversible. The beginning of the prosecution was based on the high and fair decision of the International Criminal Court to issue a warrant for the arrest of the President of the Russian Federation, Putin. Our sacrifice will not go unpunished, we will never forgive the murderers, nor will we ever forget those who have fallen into battle for Ukraine of soldiers and all the peaceful citizens who died as a result of a criminal Russian invasion. I ask you to honor their light with a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable members of the People’s Republic of Ukraine are invited to make a signal vote prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. [[12:12:48]] For 231, versus 9, 3, they held back, everything as usual. Thank you, colleagues. Dear National Deputies, today is the birthday of our fellow National Deputies: Oksanas Vasilovna Savchuk non-fractional), let's welcome (; Alexander Borisovich Matusevich ("Serviary of the People") and Yuri Alexiyovich Pavlenko ("Platform for Life and Peace"). [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Let's welcome them, dear fellows. [[Applause]] Once again, I appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session taken in Parliament before an hour after the end of our work. Dear National Deputies, a list of issues that were previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, you have been given, and we are moving on to its consideration. And so, let's start with the first one. The first question is the draft decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to ensure the responsibility of those responsible for the most serious crimes committed under international law in Ukraine (registration number of the draft Decree 9122). Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the session. Since the authors are all here, the leaders of Parliament and representatives of factions and groups, I hope that we will unite in this vote. I would like to propose to include the draft Regulation 9122 in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:14:41]] For 271 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:15:02]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, at the Conciliation Council, we have arranged a presentation in the form of reading this statement so that everyone can hear it. So please don't turn off the microphone. And then from each faction, groups of three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u2	The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to ensure the responsibility of those guilty of the most serious crimes under international law in Ukraine. In accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and underlining the obligation of all Member States provided for in Article 2 of the Statute to maintain in their international relations their threat or application against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State, or in any other way incompatible with the purposes of the United Nations, and to resolve their international disputes by peaceful means in such a way as not to endanger international peace and security and justice, Under other international treaties to which Ukraine is a party, including the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907, the Geneva Conventions of 1949 and the Additional Protocols thereto, the United Nations Convention for the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide of 1948, the United Nations Convention against the Financing of Terrorism of 1990, the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination of 1969, the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from the Enforced Disappearance of 2006, Recalling UN General Assembly Resolution 3314 (XIX) of 14 December 1974, "Definition of Aggression", which defines aggression as the use by the State of force against sovereignty, territorial integrity or political independence of another State or otherwise incompatible with the UN Statute, Welcoming the work of the Independent International Investigation Commission to investigate violations in Ukraine, established in accordance with UN Human Rights Council Resolution A/HRC/RES/49/1 of 4 March 2022, Taking into account the report of the Independent International Investigation Commission on the investigation of violations in Ukraine since 15 March 2023, according to which the invasion of Russian armed forces into Ukraine is an act of aggression against Ukraine, in accordance with the definition of aggression reflected in UN General Assembly Resolution 3314 (XXIX), as well as additionally established by the Commission on the commission of acts of mass war crimes committed by the Russian authorities in the field of human rights and international humanitarian law, namely murder, unlawful deprivation of liberty, torture, rape, as well as forced displacement and deportation of children, Underlining that the General Assembly of the United Nations has acknowledged that the Russian Federation has committed aggression against Ukraine in violation of article 2, paragraph 4, of the UN Statute, Noting that the General Assembly of the United Nations has stressed the need to ensure accountability for the most serious crimes under international law committed in Ukraine by means of appropriate fair and independent investigations and prosecutions at national or international level, as well as ensuring justice for all victims and preventing future crimes, Taking into account the London Declaration on the Punishment of Crimes Committed in the War of 13 January 1942, which became the first step towards the establishment of an international legal system for the prosecution of war crimes in Europe, the United Nations General Assembly Resolution on the Confirmation of the Principles of International Law Recognized by the Charter of the Nuremberg Tribunal (A/RES/95(196), which affirmed the principles of international law recognized by the Charter and the decision of the Nuremberg Tribunal, and the Nuremberg Principles developed by the United Nations International Law Commission, which determine which acts are war crimes, including the principle of planning, preparation, initiation or conduct of aggressive war or war in violation of international treaties, treaties or guarantees, as well as participation in the general plan or conspiracy, with a view to carrying out any actions that are liable to the crime of the International Union, Bearing in mind the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, and recalling that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, acting on behalf of the Ukrainian people as the sole body of the Ukrainian legislative authority, recognized the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court with the aim of bringing international criminal responsibility for crimes against humanity, the war crimes committed in Ukraine under articles 7 and 8 of the Rome Statute (the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 4 February 2015 No 145-VIII), Sharing the position of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, expressed in its resolutions 2436 of 28 April 2022, entitled "Aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine: Ensuring Responsibility for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law and Other International Crimes" and 2482 of 26 January 2023 "The Rights and Rights Aspects of the Aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine", as well as in European Parliament Decisions No.2022/2655 (RSP) of 19 May 2022 "On Combating impunity for war crimes in Ukraine" and "The Establishment of a Criminal Tribunal for Crime against Ukraine", the Declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO "The Support of Ukraine" and the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE "Aggressive War of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, the U.S. Underlining that the Russian Federation's armed aggression began on 19 February 2014 with unannounced and covert incursions into Ukraine's territory of the Russian Federation's armed forces and other military forces, as well as with the organization and support of terrorist activities in Ukraine's separate territories, and on 24 February 2022 it became a full-scale armed incursion into Ukraine's sovereign territory, Recalling that in the course of armed aggression and occupation of part of Ukrainian territory, the Russian Federation military forces, other military forces under control, as well as the occupational administrations of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, have committed and continue to carry out mass war crimes and crimes against humanity, Indignant that, at the beginning of the liberation by the security forces and the Ukrainian defence forces of the temporarily occupied territories in the cities of Butch, Irpin, Borodjanka, Gostomel, Izum and many other areas inhabited by Ukraine, mass, irrefutable evidence of the commission of the Russian Federation's armed forces and its armed formations of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, which were aimed at the destruction of the Ukrainian people, Condemning crimes committed, which include systematic deliberate killings of civilians, deliberate rocket attacks on civilian populations and civilian infrastructure, numerous cases of sexual violence, deportation and the violent movement of Ukrainian citizens, including children, the Russian Federation and its territories temporarily occupied by Ukraine, systematic physical and psychological violence against the civilian population of Ukraine, including by officials of State authorities and local authorities, representatives of public organizations, local activists, journalists, ministers, teachers, doctors and other categories of Ukrainian citizens, Noting that the Buckhan tragedy, the air strike at the Mariupol Theatre, the insolent murder of a soldier of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Hero of Ukraine, Alexander Macievsky, and many other incidents of atrocities committed by the Russians in Ukraine during this war have been international symbols of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide committed and continued to be committed by the Russian Federation, its Armed Forces and other armed forces, determining the ongoing investigation carried out by the International Criminal Court, which may exercise jurisdiction over any war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide committed in Ukraine and Ukraine since 21 November 2013, and welcoming the decision of the International Criminal Court House to issue a warrant for the arrest of President Vladimir Putin of the Russian Federation for the authorized rights of the child in the Office of the President of the Russian Federation of the Russian Federation of Lviv-Belovov on the basis of their responsibility for the commission of war crimes, namely for the illegal deportation and illegal movement of the population of Ukraine, in particular children from the occupied territories of Ukraine to the Russian Federation, contrary to article 8(2)(a)(VII) and Article 8(2)(b) (b) ( VIII) The Rome Statute, Expressing its full support to the efforts of the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court in his further actions and in preventing the impunity of those who have committed the most serious and international crimes that will contribute to the deterrence of such crimes, Stressing once again that the root cause of all these crimes is the crime of aggression committed by the Russian Federation's superior political and military leadership against Ukraine, Underlining that the just punishment and accountability of all those guilty of war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide and crimes of aggression, as well as compensation for the harm suffered, is a duty and an inviolable condition for the restoration of justice and peace in Ukraine, Supreme Council of Ukraine: calls upon parliaments and governments of foreign states, universal and regional international organizations and parliamentary assemblies to condemn decisively the most serious crimes under international law committed by the Russian Federation's armed forces, other military forces under its control, the occupation authorities of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, the political and military leadership of the Russian Federation, and to take all possible measures to investigate these crimes, to bring to justice and to punish all those responsible for their actions within the framework of national and international jurisdictions. The other one. Calls upon the international community to exert the most severe political and sanctioning pressure on the Russian Federation and its officials, including the highest management, to properly implement the Order of the United Nations International Court of Justice on the Application of Interim Action of 16 March 2022 as part of Ukraine's conduct against the Russian Federation on the interpretation or implementation of the UN Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide in 1948; Urges the parties to the Rome Statute to take all possible steps to implement the decision of the previous International Criminal Court Chamber to issue an arrest warrant for the President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, and the authorised child's rights in the office of the President of the Russian Federation, Mary Lviv-Belovov, and their subsequent transfer to the Court in accordance with the obligations assumed under the Rome Statute. Next. Reaffirms its call made in the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of the GUAM, the national parliaments of foreign states, approved by Decree No. 2663-II of 7 October 2022, to support the establishment of a special international tribunal on the crime of aggression against Ukraine, which will have jurisdiction to investigate and bring to justice the responsibility of the higher political and military leadership of the Russian Federation for the commission of the crime of aggression against Ukraine; Calls on the States and other interested parties to provide as much support as possible for the activities of the International Centre for the Criminal Persecution of Crime of Aggression against Ukraine in order to speed up and increase the investigation of the crime of aggression by obtaining key evidence. Next. Welcoming the international support and efforts of the joint investigation team to investigate the most serious international crimes committed in Ukraine and consular groups in order to ensure that they are fully responsible for the most serious crimes committed in Ukraine's territory, they call on foreign parliaments to encourage their governments to join these groups and to give their full support to their work. And the last. In view of the fact that compensation or damage is an integral part of the establishment of justice, the call is made for governments, parliaments of foreign states, universal and regional international organizations and parliamentary assemblies to provide support for the establishment of an international mechanism to compensate for damage or damage caused by the internationally wrongful actions of the Russian Federation in Ukraine or Ukraine, the establishment of an international mechanism for the registration of losses that would be an instrument for the collection of evidence and information, claims of damage or damage caused by the physical and legal persons of the State of Ukraine as a result of the internationally wrongful actions of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, or against Ukraine that have been committed since 19 February 2014, and the tool for the promotion and coordination of the process for the collection of relevant evidence. This is a draft statement that we're asking you to support. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u4	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich. We also thank the authors ’ team for their work. If you'd like to sign up for a three-minute performance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u5	Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen! Please hand over Vátrovitch Volodymyr. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u7	Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović, please. Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, just over a year ago, in early 2022, the town of Butcha must have been completely unknown to the whole world. The town of Butcha was probably known to us as the quiet forest suburb of our capital. The town of Butch was a place for me personally where I went from the home of Warzel to the cafe, where I took the kid to the Plastic Center for football, which was absolutely quiet and quiet. The situation changed dramatically after these terrible events that took place a year ago. I remember the first time I saw those photos from Butchi last year. For me, as historians, these photos were very much like what I saw in the historical photos of World War II. I was one of the ones who created the London Prison Museum. In fact, there were terrible executions in this place by the Soviet regime of people who were captured in the siege of Soviet power. So the photos in Butch were very much like those painted pictures in 1941. Why have such terrible crimes become possible today, in 2022? The point is that we have not told the world, we have not told ourselves about the terrible crimes that have taken place in the past. Sadly, the crimes of the Communist totalitarian regime remained uncondemned. Then those crimes were repeated because Nuremberg was not against Stalin because Stalin came out victorious from this war. Today we know that this crime, which occurred in Butch, was only part of a broader crime policy that had taken place since the beginning of a full-scale invasion. Today we know that this is a dimensional genocide committed by Russia, it's not just war -- it's the mass destruction of Ukraine and the Ukrainian nation. Today we know that this crime is not just a crime, it is a reality of the ideology of Russian peace or the ideology of racism. So, taking this opportunity, I urge Parliament's leadership to put to the vote a very important decision, as well as an important decision on the condemnation of racism as well as on the ideology and practices that are currently taking place in Ukraine. The Russian Federation against the Ukrainians. Convinced that we should turn and do the right thing, that we are addressing the entire world by condemning the genocide that Russia is doing in Ukrainian territory right now. We did not bring to justice criminals who committed crimes in Communist times. We have to do this with today's criminals. We must make sure that this town of Butcha appears in the history books next to another town, Srebrenica, as an example of a terrible genocide. I am convinced that our victory in this war, the condemnation of Putin and his regime is the only guarantee that "never again" will apply not only to the times of World War II but also to the terrible crimes that Russia is now committing against Ukraine. So, of course, we support that statement. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u9	Heroic glory! Please, Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich, MP's "Delivery of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Artem Dmitruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u11	Please, Dmitri Artem.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! The scale of the crimes committed by Russian aggressors calls for the creation of its Nuremberg, a separate international tribunal that will ensure fair justice for both Russian military and political leadership and all perpetrators of these war crimes. For crimes against humanity, there must be retribution for acts of genocide against the Ukrainian people. For Butch, for Borodjanka, for Kharkivščina, for Montenegro and for Sumščina, for Mariupol and for Herson, for Bahmut and for Audiovka, for Kramatorski, for Druztkovka and for Kostunica, for all cities and villages of Ukraine, the aggressor will be responsible. The recent decision of the International Criminal Court in The Hague to issue an arrest warrant for Putin is a small step in one case, but at the same time a huge breakthrough in the end of the aggressor. The aggressor will pay for everything. We will rebuild destroyed cities, restore our prosperous country. For this to happen, at the international level, the only mechanism that works to compensate for the damage caused by Russia is required. It certainly needs to be created in the shortest possible time. The parliamentary group "Deliverance of Ukraine" supports the text of the statement. All perpetrators of crimes must be punished. Ukraine will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u13	Heroic glory! Please, Ruššin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u14	Please give it to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u15	Samantha Bobrowski. Samantha Anatolyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u16	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, you know, it's all right and right when we address our international partners and ask them to fix and acknowledge, including genocide against the Ukrainian people. But what happens during the Great War of the last year, and during the Russian-Ukrainian war that has been going on since the 14th year, is all the result of a great long policy. In particular, this policy continues today in the Supreme Council with a fifth column in this room, which still has mandates that still represent the Ukrainian people, unfortunately and shamefully. This is also the case in the district councils, beginning with Odessa, ending with the Equinox, which is the founder of the national patriotic institutions where young people are raised. And I would like to give you an example today of the Sumskie area, which, unfortunately, does not have a handler today. I am addressing those national MPs who represent, and the Mayors of the Suma region themselves, to the Office of the President and the President for the appointment of a head as the person who heads not only the district government, but the military administration, which is actually in charge of and assists and serves the armed forces of Ukraine today. But what's more, this area represents most of the heads of the communities that represent our former colleague, Andrija Derkac, who is suspected of both Ukrainian legislation and the United States. Sadly, that is where the great clique of the Russian Church, the Orthodox Church, lies. And unfortunately, we don't have any bills in our room today that have passed, and the committee, including the humanitarian committee, but they don't care about the agenda. So before we ask the world to pay attention to us, let us pay attention to our conduct. It seems to me that Kiev is living today as if there is no war here. And it's a very bad precedent, because Bachmut -- in the blood, Herson -- is in the blood, Kharkiv district, and he's fighting. We're waiting for a counterattack in a mood like we're still in the middle of February 22nd. I think it's a huge disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u17	The word is given to the national deputy, Mr. Nastavajchenek, Valentina Alexandrovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian union of the Fatherland. Please, Valentin Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen, dear, dear citizens of Ukraine! Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. We are here today to understand and to decide that only punishment requirements are really not enough. Ukraine and the whole composition of the government, the whole composition of Parliament, we all have the opportunity, and most importantly, the commitment to have a special prosecutor's office in Ukraine here and now in the Office of the Attorney-General to punish international and war criminals, so that a special group of top-level judges will work in the Ministry of Justice to resolve two key issues for Ukraine. First. International Agreement on a Special International Tribunal. And the second. It is time, dear friends, to protect the victims, the witnesses of the Russian occupation, and the Russian cataclysm throughout Ukraine. You and I have 464 reasons to act -- just as many Ukrainian children killed a Russian invader, just as many of our children lost their lives as tens of thousands of children forced out of Ukraine. And we know that from the Cologne Peninsula near Murmansk to Vladivostok, they are criminally dispersed by the regime that solved the war against us. And that means that it's time that every executioner, from Butchi to Herson, every cartel that shot our Ukrainians, killed and tortured, from Izum to Harkov and to Herson, Butchi and so on, was called our justice, because we demand justice, and we have to ensure it. Criminal conduct on the genocide of the Ukrainian people must be violated. You ask who, I'll answer you, the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. What does it matter? What's taking? I don't think so. So the "Fatherland" faction clearly proposes to organize parliamentary hearings here in Ukraine, here in the upper hall, to invite the Attorney General, the heads of law enforcement and to say, and to decide what else we can do to help bring punishment and justice here and now, beginning with Ukrainian land, from Ukrainian courts, and to The Hague, to the International Court of Justice including. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u19	Heroic glory! Next, please, instead of the national MP Papiev's national deputy Pavelenko, the nominee of today's "Platform for Life and Peace." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The decision to issue a warrant for the arrest of a criminal named Putin no doubt drew the world’s attention to the problems and crimes committed against a Ukrainian child committed by Russian criminals. This decision no doubt requires the full realization and attraction of everyone who has done so today, on this day, to commit crimes against the Ukrainian family, the Ukrainian child, and the Ukrainian citizens. We no doubt support this appeal by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the international community so that as soon as possible this decision becomes a reality and every criminal is held accountable. The ruling of the International Criminal Court, the arrest warrant, is just a first step. It is important that our appeal and further action today lead to the unification of all the nations of the world for the establishment of a court for the trial of Putin and all the criminal authorities of Putin. I'm convinced that in our power to form all the necessary evidence, we can bring everyone together with international partners to justice. Instead, it is extremely important what the Ukrainian authorities are doing, an effective system of state policy to protect every child who has been the victim of a crime, every child who has suffered from military action and armed conflict. It is important that we do our best to minimize and prevent future crimes against these children. And it's not just a military theme, it's a very important role and functions of the Ministry of Social Policy as a key organ in the system of authorities to protect and protect children's rights. Therefore, we turn to this rostrum on a regular basis, ask the President of Ukraine to sign the relevant Act, which was approved six months ago in this room, on the development of an effective model of protection and the protection of the rights of the child from below. We urge you to undo the mistakes made by the Ministry of Social Policy today, especially those children in occupied areas. How could it be that our Ukrainian orphans, children deprived of parental care, who were in occupied territories, were somehow taken out of that account by a decision of the Minsocpolytics. How could it be that after a year of war, orphans in the country became smaller, not more, than data.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u21	The word is given to the national deputy of Kostuj Anatoly Vjačeslavovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u22	Please give my word to my colleague, Olegny Bardini.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u23	Please, Marina Olegna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u24	Good afternoon, colleagues. Good afternoon, college girls. Our faction welcomes the decision of the International Criminal Court to issue a warrant for the arrest of the President of the Russian Federation of Putin and his authorized human rights. We have no doubt that all criminals who commit war crimes in Ukraine, including higher political and military leadership, will be held accountable. You and I are seeing here the worst war crimes that are under international law and not just. We see crimes against the civilian population. We see a special destruction of civilian infrastructure in Ukraine. We see crimes of sexual violence, forced deportation of Ukrainian citizens, including children. We think, of course, that this decision is the victory of Ukraine on the diplomatic front, the victory of our international partners. It is an important part of the Ukrainian legal process for the establishment of an international tribunal on the crime of aggression and for the Russian Federation to be held accountable, including higher, military and political leadership. Today, crimes committed by the Russian Federation are being actively investigated by our law enforcement agencies, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Ukrainian courts have already brought cases and brought criminals to justice. We are accompanied by the work of the International Criminal Court because we are interested, as no one else, in bringing criminals to justice. At the conference, by the way, this month 'United for Justice' was decided to create an international centre of a special group of investigators, who will also start helping international institutions in the summer to investigate all the crimes committed by the Russian Federation in our territory. We are grateful to a joint investigation team that is investigating the most serious crimes committed by the Russian Federation as well. We believe in the creation of an international special tribunal over Putin, over Putin, and all his followers. It is our enormous responsibility today to prove to the Ukrainians that justice exists. And we will see justice when Putin is condemned. I thank you all for your work. I thank our military, our volunteers, the medics, the president, the government. Let us continue to work together in the interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u25	Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, Party for the Future. Dear colleagues, let the colleague pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, an important statement today about the need to provide responsible persons guilty of the most serious crimes committed under international law in Ukraine must be implemented sooner or later in full but brought to an end. So many shocks have been experienced by the Ukrainian nation in the last 100 years, starting with World War I, since the period of interwar, the Huddomor, World War II, the national-liberal races, and only now does the Ukrainian nation, having a state, after its full-scale invasion of the Russian Federation, have the opportunity not only to appeal, but it has the opportunity to see how the international system of crimes against humanity is being implemented in the case of Ukrainians, Ukrainian citizens. I think our group is convinced, and I think that everyone in this room will say that there is no statute of limitations for crimes like those committed by the Nazi regime during World War II. In fact, each of them was tried in Nuremberg, and after Nuremberg, criminals were caught alive and punished. Thus, since World War II, the international criminal system and international criminal law have significantly moved forward, which, unfortunately, was not in previous times and crimes were unpunished. Vandalism, barbarism and savagery in the 21st century are unacceptable and must be understood by everyone who exercises it in the territory of Ukraine and carried it out. Slobodan Milosevic, Charles Taylor (Liberia), Uhuro Kenyatta (Kenya), Laurent Gbabo (Cot d'Ivoar), Omar Al-Bashir (Sudan) and Vladimir Putin I think that a beautiful so-called society, which one way or another, someone has already sat on the bench of defendants who have been punished in another way, like Muammar Qaddafi and Saddam Hussein, but a totalitarian shell, like a swan after, for the President of Russia, it definitely goes to completion, this swan song. Faith in liberal Russia, as someone wants and dreams in the Western world, is a deceptive dream that is not yet possible in those borders where the Russian Federation exists. So a special international tribunal is an inevitable thing for the leadership of Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u27	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich, "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, dear Ukrainian people! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Of course, today’s statement, built up by this Supreme Council decree, is very and very important, for so many losses, pain, grief have brought this war to the Ukrainian people. A war that long ago was fought by a terrorist Kremlin regime to seize the Ukrainian free democratic state. Worse yet, more than a year ago, the Kremlin’s terrorists decided to commit the real genocide of the Ukrainian people, and they decided to destroy our Ukrainian nation. This is even more distress than war. Of course, villages, cities, millions of Ukrainians were destroyed, and all of this is the result of this genocide caused by the terrorist Kremlin regime. We believe that the international community will support the establishment of an international special tribunal in which these crimes committed against the Ukrainian people will be the responsibility of all the Kremlin's political military leadership of Russia. We believe that all crimes will, in fact, be proven, proven, and criminals, terrorists from the Kremlin, will be held accountable. We also understand that, unfortunately, this genocide has caused something that, unfortunately, you will never return, no matter what the punishment, is life, the lives of our bravest Ukrainians, defenders and protectors who have defended and defended our land. This is the life of thousands of civilians who died from Russian bombs, rockets that were even worse were rolled into various basements. Even worse, it is the lives of Ukrainian children, those whose Kremlin's terrorist regime has taken away from Ukrainian parents, and there are thousands. And we want to believe that they can be returned, and actually the Kremlin regime will be responsible for this genocide against our Ukrainian people. And right now, as our Armed Forces hold back the enemy, there is a time for the world to unite and command the Kremlin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Please take your seats, a very important draft decision. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the decision-making process, please prepare for the vote. I propose that, in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to ensure the responsibility of those responsible for the most serious crimes committed under international law in Ukraine (registration No. 9122). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:54:13]] For 335 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next question. Excuse me, yes, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna, please, for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the Media Act has only entered into force since April 1st, and, therefore, the issue of disclosure of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine remains unresolved. Today is a very important day, the month we haven't had plenary meetings, and in fact, now is an extremely important statement on Butchi, the buchani resolution, very important will be the vote today, which shows Parliament's controlling role in influencing the government. And I'm asking you to support the following, as we traditionally do, so that today's plenary session in the "Rada" channel slot is highlighted in the single marathon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u31	Irina Volodymyrically, I'm sorry, when you were here, we only talked about this part. Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u32	I suggest we have it all today. We have very important decisions going there, both in government and in monitoring.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u33	Let's maybe vote this part first, because I'm afraid for the whole day.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u34	Let's put it all together, and then we'll watch. If it doesn't work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u35	Okay. Dear colleagues, Irina Volodymyrna's offer has been made today to show on the "Rada" channel all day. I understand that if this proposal doesn't go away, we're only going to put the first part of the statement. Okay? But I have to put it like Irina Volodymyrna said. Please make the first suggestion to show all day the Supreme Council's work on the "Ray" Channel. Please vote. [[12:56:16]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next question is 9125. This is corresponding to part one, part one, paragraph 12. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, it's impossible, it's just impossible to hold a meeting. Let's see, we don't get together that often just to sit and hear each other. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, are under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide on the resignation of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. On March 19, 2023, according to part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Scarlett Sergey Mikolaiovich submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a request to accept his resignation as Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. The Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation considered the application. For this reason, the Supreme Council has registered a corresponding project, Regulation No. 9125, now we're going to look at it, and you've been given the relevant materials. Therefore, a proposal is made to deal with the matter in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:58:01]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, The chairman of the higher education committee, Julia Mikolayevna Grishina, is invited to the report. Please, Julia Mikolayevna, in two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Education, Science and Innovation, today under the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19.03. In 2023, No.556-11 considered the application made in accordance with part one of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the resignation of the Minister of Education and Science of the Ministry of Education. The Committee decided to accept the dismissal of Scarlett Sergey Mikolaiovich from the post of Minister of Education and Science on his application for resignation, as well as to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept the resignation of Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine Scarlett Sergio Mikolaiovich. I would like to thank Sergey Mikolaiovich for leading the Ministry of Education and Science in extremely difficult times: 2020-2021 – the crown virus, 2022 – the full-scale invasion of the aggressor. We've had a lot to do with the Committee with the Ministry of Education, with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the Office of the President of Ukraine to make our legislation meet the challenges of time. Colleagues, please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask the MPs and groups to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please. Please, Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u38	Pippa Natalia comes to the fore.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u39	Come on, Pippa Natalia's going to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u40	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Good afternoon, colleagues! Finally, he's coming. This took three years. Unfortunately, the story of Scarlett or Charlotte is the story of the stolen time. It's a story that for three years the propane worked for education, a man who used to work in new challenges -- during the war, during the cod -- who tried to destroy the KNZ that we were able to save; who never did DPA. And we now have 3 years of lost time to make up for under extremely difficult conditions. Foreign partners did not want to support the ministry, although they wanted and were willing to support our children’s education. Education is a matter of the future. Along with our colleagues, we were able to save both the ZNA, and continue the New Ukrainian School, at least not to let it cancel, because it's extremely difficult to develop in spite of the Ministry's work, to develop anything in spite of the Ministry's work. The Enlighteners, I, the whole community of the first day understood and asked not to appoint this person. A person who was still associated with the Party of Regions could not bring good Ukrainian education. And all this time we've been standing there, and our kids have been losing their education. And for three years, we've got the results now. I repeat that our children's education is part of national security. I wish the new minister success. I believe it's going to be that candidate that's also called on the interview, he can work on it. In all good things, we will help whether we are in power or out of opposition. Good luck! Education must be for our children.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u41	Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u42	Mr. Head, I'd like to give the word to the Feds of Sofia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u43	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u44	The plagiarist, the academic unworthyness of the year, the killer of history, the destroyer of the education system -- and this is at least a few of the epithets that describe the so-called Minister of Scarlett. He returned the education area at the time of manual administration, pushed back the reforms, particularly the DPA assassinations, an active attack on Ukraine's history in the worst tobacco traditions. The halted reforms in nutrition, NMS, and science reforms. Scarlett was targeted by independent bodies and institutions, including the National Research Fund. Scarlett did not recognize the election of the rector of the Mogilánka simply out of his own vendetta. In an illegal way, he was involved in falsifying the election of the Rector of the State Biotechnology University, filing an unreliable declaration -- and that's just what was on the surface. We don't even have a statement from Scarlett, we have a statement from Charlotte, because he probably didn't have where to write the right statement. It's a good thing he's being released now, but I have a question. He's about to be released and then sent by the ambassador to some country to spoil his relationship with that country, how do we do it with the Avengers? Who will be responsible for the lost opportunities? Who will be responsible for the breakup of the education system? Who will be responsible for the fact that the Ukrainian school now essentially produces a large proportion of the ignorant because the system was broken? And it seems to me that this responsibility should be not only for Scarlett but also for those who voted for him, for his appointment, for those who covered him all these years and for those in whose command he took office. Scarlett’s shame, but the responsibility must be borne by those who have covered it all this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u45	National Deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Aresonkov, please, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, it is extremely important today to talk about the resignation of the minister, first of all to move away from some political evaluation, and to talk about what has been done in the work of the education system, whether it has been possible to resolve these extremely difficult and problematic issues and whether it will be possible to carry out further effectively the reform of the Ukrainian education system. And the first is to determine that, unfortunately, during the last period, the Ministry of Education and Science remained only in the position of the central authority that declared certain directions to education but completely lost touch with regional policy. Today we are talking about the need to improve the system of subsidies for the development of a network of educational institutions. Today, we are talking about the fact that we cannot translate exclusively into local self - government authorities in solving the issues of the network and the system. We're talking about what needs today's thoughtful analysis of the system and principles of the New Ukrainian School, all the elements of it. We need to determine whether we are supporting the new Ukrainian school today or whether we are looking at some particular situation. What we're talking about today is that it's an extremely important security programme at the level of a higher education school. Again, it is not possible to translate the matter exclusively into regional, local authorities. And there's a lot of very important things that the Ministry has to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u47	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace. Dear colleagues, after that, we'll go to the polls for one minute. People's deputies please come to the hall. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Minister of Education provided education in extremely difficult conditions, both under the conditions of the Coronavirus, a cadaveric epidemic, and, unfortunately, a year of war. That's why we're certainly taking decisions of majority, that's their constitutional right, that's to choose and appoint certain candidates, and that's to remove them from office, and that's to assign them to positions. And I think we have to treat it with respect and respect, not with dancing now, and with legalism. There is a majority decision and it has the right to be implemented in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u49	Please, National Deputy Konstanovic. And after that, we vote, dear colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank all those who have taken the opportunity to discuss education, because in fact we are talking not only about changing ministers, but we need to talk about change, about systemic change. And we have big problems not just in broken schools, not only do we have hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian schoolchildren studying abroad, we have bad textbooks and programs, we have a lot of problems. And that's why we're putting great hopes on systemic change because changes in personnel are unfortunately not going to have an effect on the development of Ukrainian education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u51	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. According to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, parts of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine put to the vote for adoption in the entire draft Decree, registration number 9125, on the resignation of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Sergei Mikolaiovich. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:10:00]] For 295 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. Show the factions, please. Let's move on. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, are under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide on the resignation of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. On March 18, 2023, according to part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Rubikin Pavlov Borisovich submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a request for acceptance of his resignation as Minister of Strategic Industry of Ukraine. The Committee on Economic Development considered the application. For this reason, the Supreme Council has registered a corresponding draft of Decree 9124. The relevant materials are given to you, and we are moving on to the subject. Dear colleagues, a proposal is made to deal with this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:28]] For 269 Decision taken. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Kisilevski, the head of the Economic Development Subcommittee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u52	Honorary colleagues, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefan Ruslan Alexiyyovich of the Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on March 20, 2023, discussed in the video conference the Minister for Strategic Industry's application for resignation from office. The committee discussion was short because unfortunately, communication with the committee in today’s Ministry did not work out, so to be honest, it was almost absent. So the decision was almost unanimous. However, I am convinced that this ministry needs and needs to be reloaded as soon as possible. Expectations from the Minstrategprom include critical tasks for the country and critical tasks for our victory. This is leadership in the development of defence technologies and defence production organizations, this is leadership in the missile-space sector, and this is leadership in the development of other strategic industries and the formation of state industrial policies. Colleagues, these questions are about victory, these questions about choice between the technological or the raw future of our country and these questions about job creation for Ukrainian citizens. I should also point out that there are certain expectations from the government regarding the settlement of the Ministry's powers regarding its real impact on those sectors and enterprises that we expect from it a concrete result. Thus, according to the outcome of the discussion, following the provisions of section 12 of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine and parts of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ukrainian National Deputies decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the resignation of the Minister for Strategic Industries of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask the MPs and groups to sign up: two in favour, two in favour. Please log in. Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna, "European Solidarity" faction. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to depart, because after the Fedina, we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u54	Please give my word to my colleague Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u55	Please, Mikola Leonidovich Knieżicki, and after this speech we vote. Invite people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, we obviously know all of Paul Rybikin as an experienced manager with a great history, but it's not even about him right now, because we know well about Paul Rybikin. What do we know about the Ukrainian industry? What do we know about the Ukrainian military industry? Look at the countries that are fighting. Look at the countries that help us. They'll make weapons that everybody's proud of. This weapon is coming to us, it's increasing production. Obviously, we too are proud of Ukrainian weapons. It was from a Ukrainian weapon manufactured before the 19th year that the Moscow cruiser was destroyed. It's Ukrainian weapons, irons, manufactured before the 19th year, that are now destroying Russian tanks. And this Ukrainian weapon would have been much more if we hadn't stopped the artificial defense of our businesses before the war itself. But this is the past. What's going on now? Nothing. The Ministry was created. Has this ministry worked effectively? There is an artificial, not conflict, but an inappropriate division of responsibilities between the Ministry and the Ucroborprom, who is responsible. There's a lot of officials, but defense, and this is the ministry and the weapons, they don't work, and the weapons don't work. What is the reason? Yes, we can say that we are now living in a dangerous time, because it's as if our businesses could be affected by the bombing of the aggressor enemy. Indeed, they can suffer. But there's no warlord country that can't afford not to produce weapons, because our weapons will have no limits either to cover the Russian Federation or to cover any other aggressors who will attack Ukraine. They nationalized the KRAZ company, gave it to the state. And what happened? It's an enterprise, it's liberated, it's closed down -- it's a job of the state. So in the end, Ucrobanprom, we have to start properly sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion, we are moving on to making a decision. The gun said he wouldn't, he took off his question. Dear colleagues, let's move on to decision-making, national MPs, please take your seats. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, part one of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine puts to the vote the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 9124) on the resignation of the Minister of Strategic Industry of Ukraine, Pavel Borisovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:17:34]] For 303 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows, next. In accordance with article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, paragraph 12, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the decision on the resignation of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. On March 18, 2023, according to part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Fedorov Mikhajlo Albertovic submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a request to accept his resignation as Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine. The Digital Transformation Committee has considered this application, and from this point of view, the Supreme Council has registered the corresponding project Regulation No. 9123, and the relevant materials have been provided to you. Dear colleagues, I have an offer, let us vote without discussion on Fedorov if there is no objection. Oh, no? All right, then, there is a proposal to consider the matter in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:18:59]] For 263 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Digital Transformation Mikhailo Valeriyovich Kryachko is invited to speak for the report. Please, Mikhailo Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u58	Good afternoon! In accordance with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the Digital Transformation Committee meeting on 20 March 2023, the issue of the resignation of Fedorov Mikhail Albertovich, Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine, was addressed and supported. Colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, thank you. I'd like to ask the MPs and groups to sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against. Please, Arjev Vladimir Igorovic, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u60	The European Solidarity faction will, of course, support this statement, because we know that Fedorov will be Vice Prime Minister with extended powers tomorrow. But I'd like to say that there's something done in the digitization plan, but I'd like to point out that it wasn't done and it wasn't done, it's after a large-scale invasion, two things. First. State registers are not open. State registers that say that we are now becoming a closed state again. And it's far more than just war issues. Because the three-level screening of the need for national security concerns has never been made, and their closure is illegal. I would very much like Mr Fedorov, as Vice Prime Minister, to be more actively involved in the discovery of registers, because it makes us a civilized state. Not enough, this prevents the cover - up of those involved in corruption and the beneficiaries associated with the Russian Federation. This is the most important moment. And the second is the closure of the crypto-currency markets that help the aggressor. For a year I've been trying through the National Security and Defense Council to force her to impose sanctions, and there's no response. It's for the future. And we're voting now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u61	Please, Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, "Platform for Life and Peace."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, it is very nice that we make such appropriate decisions about the ministers' applications for their release. Here is the information on who will be assigned tomorrow, but these assignments are not in the order of the day in connection with what and whom we will appoint. Nevertheless, I would like to draw the attention of the MPs, the national MPs, to the fact that if we accept a statement and confirm our vote on the release, we still need to listen to someone, or at the same time all of us have written a statement that they did. But when it comes to digitization, as the deputy head of the committee, I want to point out the very simple truth that we have been fighting in Ukraine for more than 10 years to have an electronic document. An electronic document does not mean information, it means all the electronic correspondence between a normal investigator, a detective, a trial manager, a court system. And we don't know where: we've got systems, we've got information systems, we've got everything else, and they don't communicate with each other. We can't be that way, we never build digitization like that. We'll support the decision. Please don't delay the process, vote, as no minister has a previous, and for the time being, and the minister that we are looking at. We will support this decision. Please put and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u63	Please, Maksim Arkadyovich Bujansky, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, let's finally release Fedorov so he can be reappointed tomorrow. But by tomorrow, the country will have time to rest from Fedorov. We're going to have twice the vice-premier of Ukraine, it's almost like a Cossack. We vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna. Sussun Inna Romanovna And I'm going to ask you to invite the people's deputies, and then we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u66	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, the Voice faction supports the release of Deputy Prime Minister Fedorov. We understand why this is being done. This is done in order to reassign him tomorrow and to give him responsibilities for an area of critical importance that is in the field of education. It is sad that this decision is being made right now, after the country has survived 999 days, when the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine was Sergey Scarlett. 999 days of shame. A minister that everyone knows is that he was a plagiarist minister. This was the most popular joke on social media after a report of his application for resignation was made, which percentage of the claim was plagiarized. This was before the public saw the statement itself and found that there were still errors in the statement made by the minister of education and science of Ukraine. Friends, and I'm looking in the hall, and I understand that there are now 226 people sitting with us who voted for this minister. Now everyone's trying to make it look like it wasn't. Friends, but you are responsible for his being the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, a disgraceful, unqualified, unkind minister. And you know what the worst part is? He was an indifferent minister. He was a minister who didn't hurt that Ukrainian children couldn't learn during quarantine, who didn't do anything to provide schools with bomb shelters that didn't do anything to understand what losses we had in the training process because of having children in my hometown of Kharkiv sit in the subway for three months. This is a disgrace to this Supreme Council. And I really want you to remember that when you make any of the following personnel decisions. Because don't tell me you weren't warned that Scarlett was going to be a bad minister. But you put up with it, you press the buttons, you're responsible for what our children have lost in learning, and we're going to make up for what you've done for years. I very much hope that Parliamentary colleagues in the next will be more responsible for making these decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u67	You've already spoken. You've already spoken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Mikhail Fedorov, as you said, let him rest one day from all of this, let's let man rest one day from government positions today. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let us move on to making a decision. According to paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, parts of the first article of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine put to the vote the entire draft Order (Registration No. 9123) on the resignation of the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine, Fedorov Mikhail Albertovich. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:28:10]] For 298 Decision taken. Thank you, Michael Albertovich, and we'll be waiting for you tomorrow. Dear colleagues, we still agreed, please don't break up, we have three reports of temporary investigators. temporary special commissions, I'm sorry. We agreed to vote them out without discussion. So I'm going to put it to a vote right away. 8304. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the report of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on international humanitarian and international criminal law in the context of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine on the work done. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:29:07]] For 303 Decision taken. Next 8,330. I propose to accept, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the report of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of monitoring the receipt and use of international material and technical assistance during the course of the six months of military activity. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:29:45]] For 305 Decision taken. And another draft of the decree is 9031. I propose to accept, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the report of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances that led to the death of the judge of the Auto-Zawda District Court of Kremenczuk of the Lobodenka Region of Lobodenka Alexander Stanislavovic and the city head of the city of Kremenczuk of Poltava district of Babejeva Oleg Meidanovic (registration number of Decree 9031). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:30:33.]] For 306 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next question is 9114. Honourable National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has received a statement from the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zábrodsky Mikhail Vitaliyovich, on the composition of its parliamentary powers pursuant to article 81, paragraph 1, of the second part of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Rules considered the application. For this reason, the Supreme Council has registered a corresponding draft of Decree 9114. I would like to vote on the motion to discuss the reduced procedure of question 9114. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:31:23]] For 282 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u68	Honorary Presidium, honourable members of the national parliament, has come to the House for a statement by National MP Michael Zabrodski about the permanent cessation of his parliamentary powers. This statement was considered by the Regulatory Committee, as a result of which a decision was taken on the submission of the draft Decree, registration 9114, by members of the Committee of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. The Committee requests the Supreme Council to support this application and to accept this decision as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the representatives of the MP factions and groups: two in favour, two in favour. Please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u70	Please, Nesterenko Kirill, Servant of the People. Bujansky? Maxim Arkadyovich Bujansky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u71	I'm sorry that Mr. Mikhailo has ceased his parliamentary duties. But I take this opportunity to express my respect to him again. Let us support his statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u72	Thank you. Please, Nina Petrovn Jujanin, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u73	Please pass the word powder to Petra Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u74	Please, Petr Alekseiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u75	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! The legendary commander of the 95th Brigade, who, from the first minutes of Russian aggression on the 14th year, led a heroic combat squad to defend the Ukrainian land, author of unprecedented military operations after the destruction of the enemy at the Donetsk airport, when he himself was behind the tanks of the famous Ukrainian paratroopers. Thanks to Zabrodski, a large part of the Ukrainian army was released, which was surrounded by Bahmutka. General Zabrodsky is the author of an unprecedented raid on the back of the Russian, which came to us in August 2014, destroying a large number of Russian military forces, Russian technology. From February 24, from the very first minute, General Zabrodsky was in Lavrish, dressed as a nun, went to the army and was in the war. We're definitely counting on strategic talent, because, once again, I emphasize, it's a symbol of the new Ukrainian army that was created by the Ukrainian people, our team based on the models of NATO, brilliantly speaks English, uses the respect of a vast number of our partners, participated in the Ramstein, and now we're blessing it to govern the Ukrainian Armed Forces in an army supported by the people. And let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u76	The word is given to the national deputy Shufrich. Ladies and gentlemen, after that, we shall proceed to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u77	Thank you, Mr. Head. The question is clear. Our colleague has identified himself, and I think we all support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u78	Please, more Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. And then we vote. Dear colleagues, take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u79	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we are talking a great deal today about what should be the formation of a powerful new political elite in Ukraine. And I'm going to say that it should form, and we're proud of the formation of the new modern, intelligent and powerful military elite of our nation. And, of course, such people are today referred to by the general of authority, honor, of whom we are now speaking, Mikhailo Zabrodsky. I am proud to know him personally, to know his contribution to construction and the changes that are taking place in the Ukrainian army. I want to thank him today for our work together, and I want to make sure that we realize ourselves for the benefit of our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies, please take your seats. In accordance with part two, part four of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Decision No. 9114, on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Zabrodsky Mikhail Vitaliyovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:37:42]] For 307 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill 8392. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the application of sanctions. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:38:17]] For 313 I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner and ask the people's deputies to vote. [[13:38:39]] For 281 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes. Then I'd like you to sign in: two in, two in the opposite. And while you're writing down, I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy of Maslova Denis Vejacheslavovich. Please, Dennis Vejacheslavovich. In short, the committee’s decision can be said whether or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a bill that makes two important changes. First. We're improving the procedure for processing claims for subsanctionary property. This requires the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court to be able to deal with such cases qualitatively and then not to have problems in European courts. The second important thing. We're creating a register of subsanctioned persons. Why is this necessary? In order to prevent lawyers, notaries, banks from knowingly or unconsciously helping such individuals to avoid sanctions. The creation of such a register is a prerequisite for the introduction of criminal responsibility for avoiding or contributing to the avoidance of sanctions. So, colleagues, we have a committee decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have two in favor, two in favour. Here we go. Kowalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Igor Fries, my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u84	Please, Igor Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u85	Congratulations, fellows! You know, now that you're working on rights, corporate rights, real estate, legal persons, you have a lot of questions about the use of persons, the register of persons who are subject to sanctions in one way or another. And when subjects of state registration today have no opportunity to confide and to be sure that the person in question is registered in the register, there are numerous questions about responsibility, including that person. So I welcome the adoption and submission of this bill to the Committee on Legal Policy, and I ask you to support it, because it will really help and properly support citizens and their rights, and to ensure the State's interests regarding the application of sanctions in respect of a defined circle of persons. We stand in today’s position where the certainty of law must be undeniable and no one should be further challenged. The very implementation of this bill in the creation of a register of sanctions that are established and sanctioned by our State is the subject of our committee and this bill. So please, colleagues, back him up and give the maximum number of votes for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u86	Thank you. Please, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u87	Please pass it on to your colleague, Pottery Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u88	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u89	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends surely have a very important bill. We need to keep moving the issue of sanctions. We see how responsibility comes even to criminals like Putin, on whom today a warrant for his arrest is issued by the International Criminal Court of Ukraine. I think let's all applaud the work of the International Criminal Court, the International Criminal Court that made this decision. And that's very important. We need to continue, work around all of these bastards – Lukashenko, all of their surroundings, Iran, North Korea – whatever, all those who help destroy the Ukrainians should be under sanctions. But this applies to those to whom we cannot reach directly. For now. Until we can get to Putin's surroundings, to him himself, to many others, this day will come. But there are those, and let's not forget that, and this is the political responsibility that we have with you, to which we can reach here and now. And so I have a question, why is there so far in the Odessa District Council a deputy of the head of the Skarovsky Association, the bastard who called the terror a gang? Why is the "fifth column" of the Kremlin still sitting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, even leading the committees, even having authority here? Why didn't we clean up all this shit that needs to be cleaned up right away? And this is our responsibility with you, our responsibility with you, which we have no one to translate into, and we have to do so. Sanctions to those we can't reach yet. Decisions today are political toward those to whom we can and should reach. And certainly, investigations and trials against all those who have betrayed our country. That's how we win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u90	Please, Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, after this, Schuffritch, and then we vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Please, John Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u91	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Now we're looking at an important bill that concerns the creation of a state register of sanctions. And of course, the Russian business that supports the aggressor country that pays taxes in the aggressor country doesn't belong in Ukraine. There must be a clear regime for attracting the sanctioning mechanism so that such a business in Ukraine does not work and cannot sponsor the terrorism that Putin and his call actually embody in Ukraine. The Fatherland faction generally supports this bill, and we will vote in the first reading. But at the same time, I would like to draw attention to the mechanism that will be responsible for this state registry. We believe and know that such a discussion is taking place on the profile committee that the director of this State Sanctions Register should be the PNBO. At the same time, our belief as the Fatherland faction needs to be discussed in detail on the committee, and such an orderly logically and according to their function should be the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. I think that this discussion will have to be held on a committee and it will have to be adopted by an effective bill, which, on the one hand, will allow the courts, especially the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, and on the other hand, to create an effective state register, including the provision of funds in the State budget for such a register to be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u92	Final address: Nestor Ivanovich Šufric, distinguished colleagues, then we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, the very idea of creating a suitable register is correct. In the first reading, this law can be passed, and I think everyone who has observations to it can use their right when preparing the law for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've completed our discussion of the bill, we're moving on to a decision. I'm asking the national deputies to take their seats, please. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the application of sanctions (registration number 8392) in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:47:30.]] For 311 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Now, we have Motovlovec first, please, Andry Viktorovich. Dear colleagues, don't split up because Motovilovt's proposals are always interesting. Please, Andrew Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u95	I'm asking you to change the procedure for reviewing the bill, to clear the agenda of Bill 7588. Excuse me, 7616 for the Fish Agency, to remove the issue from the agenda and put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I understand your offer. We went on 7588, 7616. Andrew Viktorovich's proposal to take them off the table today. Got it, right? I'm proposing to Andri Viktorovich Motovilovtsa, and I'm asking you to support her, dear colleagues. Please vote. [[13:48:39]] For 259. Decision taken. Beautiful. Next bill, 8131. But we're taking a break from two factions from the EC faction and the Fatherland faction. Gončarenko Alexeiyyovich is invited to the floor, and then we will move on to the next bill, 8131. Please don't go away. That's three minutes of application, please. Please let everyone come out now, then Alexy Alexiyovich, please turn around for a while. May I, Alexyyyovich? Include Alexiyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u97	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I want to share with you, colleagues, a very bad story that is now happening in the city of Odessa, my hometown. The point is that in Odessa, like many other cities in Ukraine, there is a volunteer center called Goncharenko Center. These cities are more than 20 cities across the country. We all work as many of you, to our victory, to volunteer, to help. In Odessa, this center is one of the largest manufacturers in Ukraine of camouflage nets, camouflage. During the year of the invasion, 45,000 square meters of masquerade nets, dozens of cars, drones, support for forced displaced persons, all of them, and the main help of the U.S.S.A. -- all of this was happening in this room. All of a sudden, when I actively began to ask, including in the Odessa Archipelago, that the deputy head of the Odessa Archibald Party of Skarovsky, who called the terrorist gang, is precisely such a specific "fifth column" of the Kremlin, should be removed from the post of deputy head of the Odessa District Council. He was surrounded by a coalition of "ministers of the people," unfortunately, and the OPCW, which together left him in office. It's still illegal to hold, pay. We don't have the money for the military, and for Skarovsky, like him, his driver, his secretary, there's money for everyone. But they continued to take revenge, and Odessa’s district council, despite the rental agreement on the premises, is throwing volunteers out of this room today. The masked nets are useless, the help of the U.S.S.S.A. is useless, nothing is necessary, they send the baby, and they work in the best traditions. Friends, unfortunately, we see this all over Ukraine: attacks on volunteers, attacks on all those who are trying to do everything for our victory today. Is that acceptable? I'm talking to my colleagues at the People's Service. Cut off your representatives in Odessa County, what did they get mixed up in, who were they waiting for? Are they waiting for Putin? They wait for whom, and why do they do such things? It's not too late to stop it, get the volunteers back, reach out and work together in unity to win. Or if your unity is with the PRTR, tell people honestly about it: our unity with the PRTR, we have other goals, and we are moving in a different direction. Then be honest with people. So I urge you, I urge the President, to respond to this scourge, to protect volunteers in Odessa, Kiev, Lviv, Dniper everywhere. That's the only way we're gonna win. Volunteers, U.S.S.A., victory! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, next bill 8131. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the implementation of the international standards for automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. We have a deal, seven minutes -- Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, right? Take your place. Julia Volodymyrna, seven minutes, right? Please include 7 minutes of Ulysses Volodymyrý Timoshenko. Then there'll be Nina Petrovna Yuzanin, there's the blocks, and then there's Dmitri Alexanderovich. Please, Julia Volodymyrna, 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to support what you have withdrawn today, the two bills that are completely unacceptable to vote, are 7588 (U). This is a bill that, during the war in all Ukrainian agrarian science, 400,000 hectares of land were taken into virtually new corruption, depriving the state of the right to participate in selection, agrarian science, and leaving a country that has almost 40 million hectares of fertile land without basic science, without academic and university education, which would certainly rely on the use of agricultural land for scientific work. It's a scandalous absolute bill. And what is now 7588 (U) taken is very correct, and hopefully it was taken once and for all. And the second bill that was drafted is 7,616 government. This is another bill, which referred to, under the beautiful title "State regulations in the field of fish farming," which essentially led to politics when our lakes -- our wealth -- our rivers -- were essentially giving this law the right to fish, to essentially, without the decision of the local authorities to embezzle our water and practically the state, utilities, communities, they would lose the ability to manage it, to manage it, and no longer know in which hands would be the barbaric use of our water, along with the unlimited catch of fish. I'm glad that this bill has also been drafted, because both of the bills have simply, well, hundreds of rights, because such laws during the war, especially behind people's back, are impossible to pass. With regard to Bill 8131 on amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and other legislative acts on the implementation of the international automatic exchange standard on financial accounts, I would like to say the following important things. Well, first of all, of course, in this law, it's about adapting international legislation in Ukraine to the purposes of the FATCA Agreement. This means monitoring all financial resources, gathering information on financial flows and not only accumulations within Ukraine, but also transfer, exchange of this information outside in order to monitor the honesty of financial resources, including these and anti-terrorist things. One hundred and twenty - three countries are part of this FATCA and Ukraine must also be part of this system. But what is the problem? Problem. This is already the second reading, this is the final reading of this bill, the problem is that there are very fundamental conclusions from the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority, and they are fully consistent with the conclusions made by the experts of our team, that the project introduces the practice of interpreting the terminology of legislation into the consideration of the State bodies that apply them, the multilateral agreements, the CRS termins defined by this code should be applied and interpreted in the light of the FATCA Agreement. I just want to emphasize once again that until the second reading this big flaw in this law regarding legal uncertainty has not been corrected. This document cannot be adopted in such chaos in terms of terminology, which is responsible, because then, virtually instead of interpreting the terms, there will be a Cabinet of Ministers, which is unacceptable in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which has repeatedly stated that the principles of legal determination, clarity and certainty of the rule of law are the defining elements of the rule of law. This law is a complete legal mess. And that's why it would be right to do the following things. It would be right to send this bill after a reduced procedure for re-reading and to make all the necessary technical corrections in this important and necessary law for Ukraine to fully comply with both the Constitution of Ukraine and the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, especially the legal definition of all the terminology used in this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u100	Thank you, Julia Volodymyr. Please, Nina Petrovna. Nina Petrovna, you want a five-minute performance, and that's 15 straights. I'm gonna count them now, okay? And put to the vote four of them. Now it's about revisions: 15, 18, 23, 65, 86, 101, 110, 112, 115, 116, 125, 131, 132, 136, 137. And for those, you'll bet: 131, 132, 136, 137. All right, five minutes, Nina Petrovn Jujanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I will not repeat myself as to the obvious importance of this bill. This is one of the next ones we've worked with since 2016. It's complicated in the perception of all citizens, and business, including, but I'm now going to stop at one particular thing. I would just ask that when we implement different standards, conventions so that we don't exaggerate. We have a very complex country, we have a very far-reaching tax culture, and so we need to go through this path in a civilized way, not to have an outflow of capital and business from Ukraine, but to gradually learn and train to discipline and to the notion that the exchange of information will take place between the competent authorities, starting in six months from now, they will start collecting information. So my question is more or less specific. On January 1, 23rd, Ukraine has 72 bilateral tax avoidance agreements that correspond to the OECD Model Convention. Each convention contains an article that sets out the basis for the exchange of information needed by the competent authorities regarding transactions between the owners of such countries. This exchange takes place on the basis of a so - called special request from the tax authority of one country to the tax authority of another country. This is not about the financial information provided by financial agents to the competent authorities. This is the transaction information, I will repeat, between Ukraine’s owners and another country’s host. Thus, in order to effectively implement this process, the OECD Global Forum recommended that, at the legislative level, the requirement be set for such entities to keep documents for at least five years. And Project 8131, requiring the standard of communication of information upon request, repeats this with tax information solely for commercial transactions between entities, establishes the storage of all primary documents not only for entities of external economic activity but also for all other legal persons of income tax payers, legal persons of single tax payers and legal persons of non-profit enterprises and organizations. That is, when the current three - year period is maintained, during which the tax authorities can determine their own tax obligations, the so - called limitation period, the requirement to keep the original documents is established by this law for five years. For example, please tell the manufacturers of goods for the internal market, for retailers, for medical establishments, for utilities, for public organizations, why, and in my opinion, the five - year shelf life is totally unwarranted. I've been proving this at a committee meeting, and I want to reiterate that this commitment will only lead to this and it will create additional possibilities for control or law enforcement, just as an additional pressure on business. I asked and explained to my colleagues, and we should have the following, that if an external economic activity, that is to say, is an external economic activity, it should be subject to the standard of keeping documents for five years, as it already is. With regard to subjects subject to TCZ, there is a time limit of seven years. In my amendments that I am asking for support, 131 and 137, it is clearly stated that for all subjects we set different retention periods, as required by common sense, and without exaggerating the requirements for us as set out in the OECD Model Tax Convention. Please support the 131st and 137th revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u102	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Please be careful. It's your work, isn't it? 131 of Nina Petrovna’s right. It's rejected by the committee, isn't it? Declined. Danilo Aleksandrovitch, are you going to comment on all these lines or on one of them?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, the text of the bill that you have received is a complete introduction to the OECD requirements of our legislation in the field of information exchange, the international exchange of tax information, which is done automatically. These requirements are met by 165 OECD Global Forum members. Ukraine and the Russian Federation are not the only ones responding. I think it's not the company we need to be in, and it's not the country we should be equal to about our rules in this context. Therefore, the remedies are rejected. I ask you to support the committee's position and to reject the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u104	I'm betting on the vote number 131 Nina Petrovna Jujanina. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[14:06:27]] For-83 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the 132rd edition of Nina Petrovna's vote. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[2:06:52]] For-67 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the 136th National MP's vote on Nina Petrovna Jujanina. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:07:16]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the 137th National MP's vote on Nina Petrovna Jujanina. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:07:40]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, and the second block of yours: licenses 145, 167, 190, 191, 196, 199, 259, 260, 261, 262, 301. We're going to put 259 and 260 of them. Four minutes. Please, four minutes, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to get involved in the work, because the previous decision was obviously wrong, we're only making things worse for our business. And these aren't the requirements that the reporter just talked about. The next block is my problem with blocking tax receipts. I'd like to focus on you right now and listen to everyone. It's just about blocking tax receipts -- it's already, I think, on all television channels, on all business and not business meetings, asking what it is and where it came from. It's a long time ago. And now I'm just going to use a fresh message from businessman Roman Vaschuk to tell you what's going on today. So, according to a study by the Business Ombudsperson's Council in the fourth quarter, she taxed 65,000 businesses with 161 taxpayers who were actively working and registering tax receipts. In fact, at a committee meeting, we're always discussing this complex problem. And it's said that SMKOR is the head of the committee and the Ministry of Finance. But nothing really changes. He says in his letter that today, despite what seems to have been taken, all the complaints of taxpayers coming to the Council of Business Ombudsperson, more faithfully, most of them refer to that. Complaint of blocking tax receipts. It's stopping the registration of tax receipts, it's stopping the ability to use and carry out further farm operations, it's laundering the payer's circulation costs. In fact, it seems to me that this system, which we introduced back in 2016, needs to be modernized on completely different models of some mathematical, technical capabilities, not in manual mode, which today continues to be a tax service. I'm sorry to talk about it. But if this model worked, and now it has to be replaced, and they can't replace it, why, in the most difficult period of time, when the longest period was a blur, our tax stopped business in Ukraine, if this could be the decision of the majority, the majority, the majority, the power to stop even at the time of the war. So my two adjustments. The first is to make. And by the way, if you're now told that the situation has improved, I've just spoken to a large payer who's had a very large amount of taxes blocked, after changes to the EMCDDA, 3 percent of them have been unlocked. This is all the improvement that has taken place during this period of time. It's just that we don't have that opportunity to abuse business anymore, we don't have that privilege. Business has to work. We've got a lot of problems coming into the budget. And as long as you hang a paw on your ear about what's good, business pays more, they suffer more and more from our actions. Therefore, the first amendment is to unlock all tax receipts that were blocked during the war. And the second. Stop blocking the tax slips until the new high-intellectual system is put in place, so that the frauds don't trick us, but we could work on new technologies that will stop the frauds. It's my fault. Please support two adjustments. Now you're looking at the whole of Ukraine, no exaggeration.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u106	Committee position, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u107	These amendments have been rejected, none of them have anything to do with the text of this bill. And probably the author of these amendments knows that in other laws we've already partially taken into account and we're working on improving the system. And these revisions actually offer a completely unique repressive system of tests that are proposed to replace the military tax evasion system. They are completely absurd and are unquestionably unaccountable. That's why we rejected them. Please support the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the two amendments are 259, 260 of the Jujanina, they are rejected by the committee. I take them into account. 259 Amendment to the Authorship of the South. The committee's dismissed. You've heard the position of the party. Please identify and vote. [[14:13:19]] For-96 The decision is not taken. And 260 of Yuzana's. She was rejected by the committee. The position of the parties was heard. I'd like to make up my mind. What? I'll show you the result. [[14:13:43]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Show the results of the factions vote. Thank you. Dear colleagues, 317 amendments have been made to Razumkov. Do I get it right? Before I hand over Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'd like you to invite all your colleagues into the hall. I'd like to speak to the people's deputies again. Dear friends, we have adopted a decree on matters related to the disclosure of the work of the Supreme Council, we have agreed, an hour after completion. There are ones who think they're more equal than others. I'm asking you to consider the decision that will be taken as the will of this room. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please listen, there are many lawyers in this room in the past. Sooner or later, all the lawyers in this room knew what a lawyer's secret was. We've only made two corrections from our team: one is counted, the other is not. 317 revisions, if not taken into account, seriously expands the limitations of the lawyer's secret and will give you access to the data you provide to lawyers. I ask you very much to think about the future of our nation and everyone in this room and those who are watching us today. These are the fundamental values on which the European Union is built, to which we are headed, are fundamental values for a democratic state. So I'm asking you very much to support regulation 317 and not extend the possibility of accessing a lawyer's secret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u110	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, thank you, colleague, for such a fiery talk, but this talk has nothing to do with the content of the bill. I asked for attention to the second reading, and this agreement with the Legal Policy Committee, we've narrowed down the amount of information that lawyers provide to just the information that relates to trusts, foreign trusts that the lawyer administers. I don't know what has to do with the lawyer's secret information about the trust that the lawyer administers, and how else you can get that information. And it seems to me that we really need to decide whether we're smart, whether we're beautiful, whether we're asking for payment to the military, whether we're protecting the trusts of foreigners where the money is hidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, 317 amendments to Razumkov's authorship, you have heard the position of the parties, please vote. [[14:16:44]] For 132 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Uh, one more to confirm, right? Please, Hero. Dear colleagues, one amendment for confirmation and then we vote on the law as a whole. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u113	Thank you, colleagues. I'm going to put 276 revisions on confirmation, and I'm also going to focus on the next one. We're discussing a very important bill now, and all the MPs who have just presented their amendments have been working very hard to improve it and not do any corrective spam. And it's very unpleasant to hear that this is a minor amendment, it's a misadjustment from the committee manager, we're discussing very serious topics right now. I would like to remind you that Mrs. Yuzanina, I'm sorry that I didn't hear this room, suggested that we point out that now people are going to have to bring in special lockers to keep this documentation for five years, but you didn't support it. And we very much ask that the committee's chairman, by sounding the amendment, give a decision to the committee, not the evaluation characteristics of the amendment itself, and even more of the authors. It's totally unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u114	Please, 276 revisions. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u115	Thank you. I honestly don't know what you're not satisfied with. 276 amendments. The amendment defines how the prescribed law becomes effective and fully meets the objectives of the legal application of this law, and the objectives of implementing legislation to international legislation, to the norms of Ukrainian legislation. Please support and support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u116	Irina Volodymyrna, you insist on putting her on confirmation, right? Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, there's a committee for that, please. Dear colleagues, I'll let you know about this amendment. Dear colleagues, 276 amendments by Danila Alexanderovich Getmantsev, who stands here, are submitted for confirmation by Irina Volodymyrý Heratchenko. Dear colleagues, Danilo Aleksandrovitch explained his position on the entry into force of the law and, I understand, insists that this right be taken into account, such as the position of the committee. Dear colleagues, I'm betting on confirming 276 amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:19:51]] For 227 The edit was taken into account. Now we move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, take your seats. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Implementation of the International Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Accounts (Project Registration No. 8131). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:20:38]] For 263 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Next bill, 4409. We agreed without discussion, without amendment, I mean, this is the second reading. So I immediately propose to adopt a draft law amending the Code of Bankruptcy (Registration No. 4409) in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:21:30.]] For 255 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Next bill 9027. This is a draft of the Act amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement on the possibility of altering the terms of the purchase contract. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[14:22:04]] For 216 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you to the Committee's Vice-Chairman, the Committee's Vice-Committee on Economic Development. Please, Alexy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Economic Development at the March 15th Video Conference discussed the draft Act amending Chapter X of the Act on Public Procurement (Registration No. 9027) and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill on the basis. The bill is very important, respected colleagues, because it takes into account the positions of long contracts that were made with government contractors before the start of the war. This is a decision that we have to make with you to help a large number of counterparties of the state get out of insolvency because they actually continue to do so. Do your job, but pay comes at prewar prices. Taking inflation into account price increases and other factors, we developed and recommended that this bill be adopted to save the Ukrainian business. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss this bill. Please, Alexiyczuk Alexander Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Marikovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u120	Please, Marikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, we have this situation because of war and through purchases. We have to make these decisions, and now this bill has been drafted so that the state will only win because it will be able to complete and issue contracts for the restoration of infrastructure. But before the second reading, we will be able to work even more effectively on it, because there were certain wishes, so please support this bill, which is very important to our country right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u122	Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u123	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Is this bill necessary? He's needed. We discussed him for a long time on both the factions and the committee. And what I want to say is that the substantial terms of the purchase contract, made in accordance with the requirements of this law, can change from 1 July 2020 to 24 February 2022 after it has been signed to the full extent of the obligations provided for in this article. in article 41. There are three cases. The first case is that according to the results of the revision and re-approval of the construction project in the order established by the law, where the price increase does not exceed 50 percent, the rest is all according to the text that it was. The second question is to increase the price for the purchase of current repair services. And the third is to increase the purchase price as a result of the changes in the essential conditions imposed on the basis of paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 in total, to provide for 50 percent of the purchase price. But, at the same time, I spoke to the committee and today I will say that our faction will support the second reading if the positions on the EU Directive from are corrected. Directives No. 18 of 2004 will be repealed accordingly. At the same time, inflation as an economic phenomenon cannot be seen as a condition for changing the public procurement contract. There are also appropriate and corrupt risks that the committee discussed at its meeting. Dear Mr. Head, at the same time, Mineconomy supports, but the Ministry of Finance gives its observations and speaks of appropriate clarifications that are important to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u124	Thank you. Please, Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u125	Please pass the word to my colleague Rušišin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u126	Please, Ruššin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, by this bill or by law in the future, we open a box of Pandoras. Anyone who has been a little touchy about anticorruption can see how difficult it is every day to reduce discretion and reduce subjectivity in making decisions. So this bill is about that. The bill proposes to review existing contracts and determine the new price to be paid to performers. By the way, the European Union does not provide for a price review. We violate these directives by joining the European Union. And what I'd like to stress is whether or not it's the most. This concept is again introduced as an expert in the construction project. This is the opening of a new market for the price you want us to appreciate. I'd like to say that we had a meeting with Mustafa Najem on our committee, and we heard his arguments. But, nevertheless, I think they're not enough, because his main argument was that we're now going to put the courts to rest in corruption cases. Thus, it is better to put the courts to sleep in cases of corruption, even in institutions as weak as our courts, than to open subjectiveism and discretion in the future to price decisions, public spending on construction. And we also have a lot of questions about why it's just construction, why it's just the areas that are listed in the bill, because there's a lot of industries that have a long cycle, and they're also affected by inflation. So I urge everyone not to vote in favour of this bill, because we're going back to fighting corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u128	Please, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, after this performance, we vote. People's deputies please come to the hall. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u129	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to a colleague after the faction of Kabachenko Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u130	Please, Vladimir Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. One of the authors of this bill, standing behind this rostrum, used the phrase "this is a very important project." This is a very important bill. The only thing that can characterize this bill is a very corrupt bill. There are big questions for the profile committee that somehow decided and saw the relevance of this bill. There are very large questions to the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee, which unfortunately has limited itself to numerous comments to this bill, but has not found very clear manifestations of corruption in it. I fully support and agree with the previous reporter. The only thing the bill gives is subjectiveness in the decision to increase the value of a contract signed in 2020 and not to increase. So when public authorities have a subjective factor in the state, when the state does not regulate it with any criteria, it simply decides for the benefit of someone, whether to increase the amount, the cost of the contract, or not to increase it, is corruption. So I urge you, and I very much ask you not to support this bill in any way in this paper. So if you do a shorthand analysis, since 2020, from 1 July 20th to 24 February 22, more than 500 billion dollars have been signed. Imagine, if these 500 billion dollars were to increase by 50 percent, what would be the amount of expenditure to absorb the state budget? So once again, in no way can we support this bill in this paper. We must make adjustments, return it to our first reading, and reexamine it in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Please, all national deputies, take your seats. Let us move on to a decision on this bill. I'm putting forward a proposal made by the committee: to adopt a draft Act amending Chapter X of the Act on Public Procurement (Registration No. 9027). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:32:59]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing that this bill be sent back for re-reading. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[14:33:25]] For 222 Dear colleagues, please send the subject of the legislative initiative to finalize the bill. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote in favour of this decision, to send the subject of the legislative initiative to draft Bill 9027. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:33:59]] For 226 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the following two bills, 7327 and 6464, we agreed without amendment, so please don't disagree. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the state environmental monitoring system, environmental information (environment information) and environmental information management (registration number 7327). People's deputies, please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[14:34:51]] For 246 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. And the next bill, this is re-reading, the draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of intellectual property rights (registration number 6464). I propose to adopt draft Law 6464 in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:35:27]] For-286 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. The next bill was agreed without discussion. Dear colleagues, don't split up. This is the draft Act amending Chapter XI of the Act on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges in relation to the Decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 18 February 2020 No. 2/r/2020 on ensuring the continuity of the administration of justice by the highest judicial system in Ukraine (registration number 5456-d). I propose to adopt, as part of the first article of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Act amending Chapter XI of the Law on Justice and the Status of Judges in relation to the Decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 18 February 2020 No.2-r/2020 on ensuring the continuity of the administration of justice by the highest judicial system of Ukraine (project registration number 5456-d). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:36:47]] For 259. Decision taken. Next in line with the discussion. This is the first reading, 8257. This is a draft law amending the Civil Protection Code for Ukraine on the provision of material and technical measures in the area of civil protection. I propose to consider this bill, 8257, in a simplified procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:37:21]] For 230 Decision taken. I'm inviting you. Let's do two in a row, two in a row. All right, colleagues? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of European Solidarity. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u133	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Of course, we all need to deal with the subject of civil protection today. This has been demonstrated by this war, when our cities are bombed, when missiles are flying, it's obviously a necessary thing, there's no doubt about it. But also, what we don't need and can't allow is that there's abuse and that's important. I hope this law will allow us to do that too. And abuses are, and then they're trying to hide them. Let me give you an example. The Odessa District Council was able to conclude an agreement on the construction of the Black Sea bomb shelter in Odessa for 10 million dollars, for 10 million dollars, 5 of them have already won, there is nothing, no one works there, and next door there was a volunteer center, that's in the same building, Goncharenko Center, and today it's being thrown out. And we have several versions of why. Well, first of all, because I said from this rostrum about the German dictatorship, and now I have to be punished for it. The second option is that we're fighting a link with the Odessa District Council with the People's Service. Once again, yes, put that head away from Didenko, a disgrace. And the third option, or maybe all of a sudden to hide it, is to hide how they steal money from the so-called construction of a bomb shelter there, they steal it directly. Right now, there's no money on the anti-drone rifles for our military, no money for our military, and to steal money from the district council, by covering up the bomb shelter, there is. Guys, I'm paying attention to that. Hopefully, our law enforcement will demonstrate that they are capable of investigating such things. And there's got to be civil protection, not civil defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u134	Please, Schwaczko Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u135	Mandy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u136	Mandy Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, I understand the concern of the previous speaker. But those laws that we are adopting today for the strengthening and social protection of our rescuers, and for the strengthening of their material and technical base, are now necessary for the effective functioning of the DSNS service. Dear colleagues, you have before you the draft Ukrainian Civil Protection Code Amendment Act on Material and Technical Protection of Civil Protection Measures for Civil Protection (Registration No. 8257), developed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use, along with other National Deputies. The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Protection Code, which is proposed to amend the terms of the Ukrainian Civil Protection Code and to bring Ukraine's current legislation into line with the requirements of the mechanism for the creation and use of material reserves. To conform to existing legislation and to effectively expand the list of these goals for which humanitarian assistance can be involved and used. Establish standards for the provision of food for civil protection licensees, organ workers, and civil protection units. The bill also proposes to supplement article 8 of the Ukrainian Civil Protection Code with a standard. Dear colleagues, saving your time, the committee's decision to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u138	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take over. Oh, I'm sorry. While you're going, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. Excuse me. Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u139	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In fact, the bill is very important. Today, our rescue workers are always at the forefront of challenges and emergencies, extraordinary events, and challenges associated with war. Because of this, the drafters clearly wrote out what is needed today to function as civil protection and defence. But we think that the second reading should clearly take into account the position and territorial communities, the local self-government bodies, together with the local council association, because there is a part of the funding, especially the nutrition of the individual composition, as well as the licensors, that relies on the local authorities. It's got to be taken into account. It's got to be worked out. In the first reading, "The Fatherland" supports, and in the second reading, we're going to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u140	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take your seats. I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Civil Protection Code on material and technical security for civil protection (project No. 8257) in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:16]] For 254 Decision taken. Let's move on. Next Bill, Honorable Colleagues, 8187. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Defence Act to improve defence management procedures. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[14:44:47]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss whether we can vote? Discuss? Then sign up: two in, two in, against, please, colleagues. Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u141	Thank you very much. Please pass the word to Pottery Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u142	Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u143	We're friends, of course, very much. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Of course, we really need to strengthen governance and control over defence resources, there is no doubt about that. The more we see problems. We see an apple of 50 bracelets, we see an egg of 17 bracelets, we see an egg of kilograms, we see some strange things that are absolutely unacceptable, and we have to put a dot on them, because every penny of defense resources has to go to their goal. And not volunteers are supposed to provide, the more they attack, throw, attack, blame, but at the same time, they work, at the same time, they do what they can to provide troops with drones, anti-drones, cars, everything else they need. Just like a lot of you, I just handed the 63rd car from Goncharenko Center to the military. Why doesn't the state do that? So the defense of resources has to work for the state, and so does every penny of the budget. By the way, in the last speech, I forgot to say that these 10 million bracelets were donated to someone because there's no bomb shelter, which is why our colleague's company is winning. She's among us, her husband owns a firm, and now he's building an Odessa bomb shelter for 10 million dollars. It's just that somehow it builds up that money disappears, and there's no bomb shelter. This cannot be the case, as long as we manage the defense resources, if we rule our country in this way, we will not find anything good. We have to show efficiency, every penny for the military, every support for the volunteers, and then there will be victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u144	Please, Maksim Arkadyovich Bujansky, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u145	Please give the word to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u146	Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, this bill is extremely important because the war Ukraine has experienced has demonstrated enough major problems in defence planning. In order for us to understand the essence of this bill, let me give you a few simple examples of the need to adopt it. What Is Defense Resources? Defence resources are primarily human resources. And the planning, use of human resources in hybrid warfare, in the context of such a destructive terrorist war led by the Russian Federation against Ukraine, is extremely important. Because today there are a great variety of military formations in the components of the security and defence system, and the optimal use of these military formations, optimal preparation and planning for their use is extremely important. The second element, which is equally important, is financial resources. We are well aware that today Ukraine is spending on security and defence that is not seen in the history of today’s world of financial resources. This is more than half of Ukraine's state budget we spend on security and defence. Planning and making effective use of financial resources in the future is a guarantee of a balanced state budget, a normal functioning of an economy that provides security and defence. Also important in hybrid warfare is the information ingredient and appropriate planning of information resources is also vital. So this bill is very important. We offer to support him. The faction of the political party "The Servant of the Nation" will vote in favour, and I call on everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u148	Please, Sergey Mikolayovich Evtuszek. Dear colleagues, this will be the final performance. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk is coming, I understand. This will be the final speech, then we vote in favour of this very important bill. People's deputies please be invited to the hall. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u149	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. First of all, thank you to Etushka Sergy, a colleague of the faction, for his word. I agree with the previous statement that the bill is extremely important. Life itself during the war period emphasized the need to organize the administration of defence resources and to bring them into circulation as a legal term for all State and local authorities to exercise and use these resources within the framework of defence. New concepts are being introduced, and this is extremely important, because the use of every resource, as human as financial and intellectual, is important in the interests of the state. There are some things that need to be worked out for the second reading, this is the synchronization of regulations, if this bill is passed, which will also work for local self-government authorities. Because this is a different system of government and local self - government needs to know clearly what resources will now be subject to vertical states in connection with the adoption of the bill, and how they will manage, finance. The Fatherland faction supports the first reading, will participate actively in the second. And I ask my colleagues to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion, we're moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Please take your seats. And I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Defence Act on improving defence management procedures (registration No. 8187). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:52:12]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are now voting on another bill, there is one minute -- the speech by Razumkov and we are voting immediately, and then the people's deputy Vojcikhovsky asks for a recess. Please move on to Bill 8339. One minute, we're still voting. Please don't break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u151	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Thank you, Your Honor. Indeed, it is an important bill, which has been repeatedly supported in this room, and on the inclusion in the agenda, and on the operational review of the committee. I'd like to thank everyone, it's supported by our protectors, it's supported by our army, and that's what we're going to do to clear up the really awkward and unfairness of actually heroes today to be able to get official titles. Not hiding behind what is a testimony to higher education or not, but identifying, and identifying commanders who are truly worthy of being an officer and directing people, and especially keeping them alive in order to win and return home. So once again, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this bill, and thank you all for supporting it today in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service for the compilation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by officers of the military warehouse for a special period (registration number 8339). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:54:14]] For 283 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. A statement came from two political factions: "Serve of the people" and "Trust" -- a break with a replacement for a performance. The word is given to the national deputy of Wojciechowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state that on March 17th, there was an insolent story. Agrarians, young men of sports status, came to the farm and claimed to be representatives of the new owner. No matter what, there have been cases of raids and in recent years, even though we realize that war is today. On many occasions, though, the governor was aware of the matter. Today, the governor, of course, conducted the briefing, at 10 a.m. he said it wasn't true. For three days, we had the whole Church, because both agrarians and the public were raised. And the governor said he really doesn't support the raiders' admiration. Why am I not surprised to hear that phrase? Because today we have a universal password in Cherchishka, this phrase "governor in knowledge." When you drive a documentless car, you drive a car with no papers, you say the magic phrase -- you're driving away, you'll have nothing to do with it. Our general today writes essays to the heads of the community, recommending who to make leases with. The same man today writes an essay to the director of the liquor plant and assures him that the papers will be picked up. What's the name of those papers and how much alcohol we have to let go for them, let's just figure it out. It is still in memory that in Cherkishka, armored men who were assigned to the army somehow got into a commercial network, said, a mistake, and a criminal case out there. Today, anomalous numbers of men did not return to Ukraine, and documents were drawn up by the Cerkas Authority on the Path System. But what I'm trying to say is that we don't have any respect for authority in Cherkishka today. They're just afraid of it. And I'm not even surprised if there are a few angry collective letters tomorrow that will assure the authors that I'm wrong. I've been through this before, and half of these authors have called and said, "Welcome, you know, I'm the head of the utility company, I have a business, so I'm sorry, I couldn't help but sign." I'm addressing the president. I understand that he has so many important things to do today, but in Cherkishka, power is not respected today, but it is feared. And that's not right. Request to release the head of the district military administration, Igor Ivanovich, from his position. Thank you. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next bill, 8433. This is a draft law amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine on the use of accounts to support Ukraine. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies are requested to vote in favour of including 8433 in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[14:58:14]] For 237 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[14:58:36]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Or we can. Discuss. Sign up: two in, two in. Please don't go away. Sign up: two in, two in. Please, two people are registered. I'm asking you to stay put. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u155	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u156	Fedia Sofia Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u157	Colleagues, with this bill, we have some totally childish situation that we can describe: he's playing himself, he's ordering music. In fact, Kabin gets the opportunity to allow himself to create accounts at Nazbank level, as if for natural and legal persons who want to help Ukraine, Ukraine's support is such a common phrase. And as a result, you can share what, where and how you can buy or not buy, or how you can get the money. Actually, apples for 51 bracelets, eggs for 17. The absence of missiles is due to the fact that the system and purchases, and the assistance of Ukraine, the Ukrainian army is critical now. And that's why I would point out that in this bill we have four major threats. The first is an attack on the budget system. What goes on in the budget has to go through the control of the Supreme Council, and it has to go through clear budget programs. This bill destroys it. The limits on the rights of the Supreme Council, I'm sorry, you're going to zero the Supreme Council, you're going to multiply all the powers of the Supreme Council by zero, but we have a parliamentary-presidential republic and no Kabmin can decide on its own decisions. This is an attack on volunteers, because your organs, the authorities under your control, they're repressing and persecuting volunteers for some wrong number or whom, and there's going to be a total lot of what's called assistance to Ukraine. And last of all, it's a threat that we're going to stop providing international assistance, because in such opaque mechanisms, at some point, they're going to say, "Come on, everybody, steal from yourselves, and we're not going to help you." So I urge you not to support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u158	Please, Olena Copanczuk. Then we go to the vote. Please, Helen Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, this bill provides for the settlement and inclusion in the special fund of the State budget of the funds that are budgeted for the accounts of the Chief Officials of the National Bank of Ukraine, which, in the form of voluntary contributions from natural and legal persons, have been recalculated to implement measures to ensure the security and defence, rehabilitation and support and development of Ukraine, so that the proper order of the funds that are held by the Chief Officials should go through the State budget and have parliamentary control. That is why the bill needs to be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u160	Thank you, Helen Eugene. Please, Zabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, and after that, we vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Please, Tzabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, when the war began, we did an urgent lot of things that were not always provided for by law, including this law. He's technical, he's correcting the things that we've actually done, that is, we've been collecting funds from the National Bank that were then used for defensive purposes. But the budget code, unfortunately, did not foresee such a thing, so this law, it's technical enough. But the criticism that I've heard, it doesn't apply to this law, so technically, it actually brings the Budget Code to the realities that are now. Accordingly, after the adoption of this law, what is going on in the collection of funds will become part of the Budget Code. So, colleagues, please uphold the law. And I urge other committees to correct such changes as are necessary for us to be within the framework of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u162	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose the adoption of the draft Act amending Chapter VI of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine on the use of account funds to support Ukraine, Bill 8433 registration number. Ready to vote? I invite the people's deputies to vote. [[15:04:28]] For 240 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. Decision taken. For. Return the vote again. For - 240. Decision taken. Excuse me. Next, we agreed, two bills without discussion, so please don't disagree. This is 7353 and 8198. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we had no deal. Therefore, I immediately propose to accept, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical legal amendments, the draft Law on the payment of one-time financial assistance for the harm of life and health caused by military aggression against Ukraine by injury or death during the course of public service, the fulfilment of obligations on critical infrastructure and professional journalistic activities (registration number 7353). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:05:38]] For 275 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 8198. We also agreed without discussion. I therefore immediately propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance for the purpose of assigning pensions to persons residing in temporarily occupied territory or in areas where hostilities are taking place (registration number 8198). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:06:22]] For 274 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill 2365. I have written the amendments to Rušhšina, five amendments. Are you going to insist, can we vote? You will. Yes, please, Engine. Call the amendment number, and then we'll talk about it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u163	Dear Chairman, two of my amendments and three of them for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u164	Let's start with yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u165	9th Amendment. It's about collecting from citizens any fees, commissions and other rewards for brokering employment in Ukraine and abroad, and it's about imposing a fine on this article. First of all, I'd like to welcome the authors. Thank you for taking another license from our employers. But we're going back to discrimination against the same employers, and that's exactly what this bill is about. Not a secret. It's a quote from an explanatory note: "It's not a secret that the backlog of our country from European neighbours stimulates millions of Ukrainians to go abroad every year." And with this bill, we've got a red track for them across the board. Please leave, you will be found free of charge by your local employer for strawberries or asphalt and go on. So in this case, we discriminate against our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 9th amendment of the authorship of the People's Deputy Rušišin. Please, Galina. Who? Galina Mikolayevna will be, won't she?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u167	He had a baby named Mikola, if he did.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u168	Please. Galina Mikolayevna, brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u169	The point is that we found a balance in the committee between regulation and deregulation. And that was the general consensus of the Ministry of Economics and those who are in charge of mediating people's employment. So as much liberalisation as possible is achieved here. Thus, the committee recommends that this amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear colleagues, amendment number nine of the authorship of the People's Deputy Rušišin. The arguments you heard, she was rejected by the committee, the author asks you to take her into account. I'll bet you nine adjustments. People's deputies, please vote. You also heard the committee's position. Please. [[15:08:55]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Please, Engine, what's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u171	89th, please, amendment. I said in this case that we had a compromise between the committee, maybe the proletariat dictatorship, because we are. This goes into the left ear in our legislation and elsewhere. It is in the explanatory note that it has already been proved that if we intervene in a market relationship with poor regulation, people will go around it and, despite the 1.7 million job opportunities offered to our citizens in Poland, in 2017, only 12,000 people went to work in this country. So people are still going to be doing this legislation, because they're going to be looking for a better job. And they might want to pay for it, and they'll be offered strawberries and asphalt again. Today I'm picking up strawberries, tomorrow I want a better job, and I'm willing to pay for this service to find me a job. Why do we forbid it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u172	Committee position, Galina Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u173	This amendment, indeed, says Mr. Jaroslav, predicts that a person pays for this service. At the same time, I want to remind you that the purpose of this bill was not to pay for job search services. Therefore, employment abroad must be paid by the employer who is looking for our Ukrainian to work. Therefore, the amendment is not supported. And please don't support her, either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u174	Thank you. 89 Repair Rustishina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u175	89th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u176	89th, yeah, that's what I said, 89. 89 Amendment The Engine is rejected by the Committee. You've heard the side arguments. At the same time, the author asks for it to be taken into account. I'll bet 89 you an adjustment. Please vote. [[15:10:58]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Mr. Ruššin, have you made any adjustments? Wait a second. No one else wants to make any adjustments? Nobody. You want to make three more revisions for confirmation. Call the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u177	Amendment number six. The amendment deals with the prohibition on the collection of fees and commission fees for brokering employment in Ukraine or abroad. On the other hand, we prove that we are a country of employment and that we care only for the interests of the tenants. And in this case, I agree with you that it's the bill on this. Thank you, Mr. Head, for confirming that. But whoever pays, who orders demand, creates demand in our market. Excuse me, the jargon is so lively: whoever pays is the one who orders the music. So our labor market is going to be created by a foreign employer, because we said he's stronger than our employer, a foreign employer. It will form demand in this market, not in other market subjects. Again, we put the worker and the employer inequity. And they have to be equal to the form of demand for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u178	Please, Galina Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u179	Thank you. The main objective of the State is to protect the people of employment. If a person is looking for a job and the state of Ukraine is unaware of where the Ukrainian works, it is not possible to protect him. So this is a mechanism designed to protect a person who works abroad, starting with this information being in the Ministry of Economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 6th amendment, it's partially taken into account, it's the authorship of the national MP, Zimmerluk Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, at the same time, this decision to take account of the part of the people’s MP, Ruššin, asks for confirmation. So I'm going to take the committee's decision to take partial amendment 6 into account for confirmation. People's MPs please vote, you've heard the arguments of the parties. [[15:13:15]] For 223 We're all here, boys. The edit is considered rejected, and the damage. Dear colleagues, what's next? Engine, what's the next correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u181	74th. This is the wisdom of the Supreme Council, not the race to the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u182	No, it's a race to the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u183	Okay. I agree with you. with your claim, which unfortunately has been growing since Soviet times, where it was necessary to protect the labour force from the state, from the monster, who was the main employer. Now we have to have a huge supply of both labor and employers in order for them to be equal in their working relationship. Now for the situation. I, a high - paying specialist, want to get an even better job. I want to come, and these vacancies aren't on the market, and this service or this firm has to work and spend a lot of its money looking for this job for itself. Why do I have no right to order such a job? We are once again becoming a labor force for strawberries and for asphalt teaching in Poland or in other countries. No, we have to work on the best jobs. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u184	I'll make it clear again, 74 revisions? Yeah? But it's Mink's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u185	It's for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u186	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u187	It's written on me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u188	Well, you can write anything you want, and I have an official table, that's Minka's amendment rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u189	Then if you'll excuse me, 76th and then, please give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u190	Now, just a second. 76th, it's accounted for. So now I'm not giving a minute, but I'm betting on confirmation of 76. Galino Mikolayevno, position of committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u191	Committee position: partially counted. This is Michael Mikhailovich Zimbaluka's edit. And I would like to stress that the protection of the Ukrainian labour market is also provided. We were between two weights: protecting people who were hired abroad, on the one hand, to protect their labour market. No European country has an open market; they protect their market just as we have to protect them. So it's partially accounted for. Please support the green.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 76th Amendment of Cimbaluk’s Authorship is partially considered by the committee. The Engineer asks for such a decision to be made by the committee for confirmation. So I'm putting 76 amendments, which are partially included, on confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:16:12]] For 245 Decision taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. Mr. Ruščišin, are you all right? Please, Grunchkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u193	72th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u194	70 or 80?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u195	72.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u196	Okay, now, I'm looking. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u197	I actually know that we have created inequality and inability to work as our employer. First, in the Ukrainian market, because we already described in the explanatory note that a foreign worker is much stronger. So why are we on our payroll? Let us also free our employer from paying for such services, but no one will look for him. I'd like us to align the labour rights of two sides: the person who gives the job, and the person who hires. They should be worthy and equal in their rights, and everyone has the right to request such a service in our market. So please, let's level up the situation after the Soviet Union eventually towards capitalism.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u198	Dear colleagues. Please, Galina Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u199	Yes, this is an editorial revision, and I'm asking the room to support the accounting editorial. Once again, I want to remind you that we have to protect ourselves as a labor market. The general declarations that there must be rights, they have the right to life, but this is the perfect picture. We actually have, in practice, that middlemen and people's jobs abroad don't have to be responsible for it. Thus, an employer abroad has to pay to understand economically, including that he is guaranteed to employ a Ukrainian. This does not prevent Ukraine from looking for work on its own, and this in no way discriminates against its rights in the search for work, including abroad. Thank you. Please support the green.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, 72 revisions of the authorship of Galina Mikolayovna Tretiakova. National MP Ruššin, he's asking for this amendment, which is dealt with in an editorial way, is a decision to make for confirmation. Galina Mikolayevna argued why they had taken this amendment into account. Thus, 72 amendments to the Third Amendment to the Committee’s decision should be taken into account in an editorial way. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:18:58]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, we've finished discussing this bill. We're moving on to making a decision. I propose the adoption of a draft Law on the Protection of Migrant Workers and the Fight against Employment Fraud (Registration Number 2365) in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:19:44]] For 268. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. The next law we vote without discussion, please, without amendment, more faithfully, 7295. I therefore propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the payment of monetary rewards to war veterans and victims of Nazi persecution (registration number 7295). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:20:30.]] For 279 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Next Bill 8263. This is a draft law on deradating the resolution of individual issues of the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:20:59]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please don't break up, let's see if we can get through it quickly. And this is the last question today, dear colleagues. Please vote. Tsymbaluk Mikhailovich, Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u201	Please pass the word to Sergey Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u202	Sergei Mikolaiovich Eutuszk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u203	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. My fellow Members, I believe that the Committee of State and Local Self-Government in Ukraine should not scrupulously consider and create bills, but should, in principle, systematically write a bill that would apply to the administrative and territorial authorities in Ukraine. Nephragmentary is a key word. Because there is a question in this bill. I would like to say immediately that there is the conclusion of the Associations of Cities of Ukraine, as well as of Associations of Territorial Communities, which say that there are a number of articles in the bill that need improvement or even amendments. So before the second reading, I think that the committee will correct these mistakes and submit them to a second reading already improved, agreed with all associations of local authorities, a bill that will be approved in general. The Fatherland faction will not now support this bill solely on these grounds. Because once the committee corrects its mistakes, by the way, our employees, the faction members, are ready to join these jobs, we will be ready to support it in our second reading. But what I want to say right now is that the committee could be between a government and an institution of the peoples of the country, such as the local authorities, the front man, and, in harmony with all positions, provide quality bills that would be supported in the hall by the full composition of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u204	Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u205	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Despite the beautiful name, it's about deradation, in fact, there's no ideological issue in this bill. In fact, the bill determines that it is a city, a village, a settlement, etc., which criteria apply and change, and categories. The End Positions suggest that all cities today and SMT declare cities, the categories of SMT will no longer exist. However, according to the project’s criteria, many do not reach cities because of lack of population, so their category can be changed in time. In general, I would like to remind you that there is now a more comprehensive government bill 4464 at the re-reading stage, so we have no reason to support this bill at the moment even in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u206	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace. Dear colleagues, after this vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u207	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the question is fully presented, discussed, I think it's time to move on to making a decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-20-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Please invite the national deputies to take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt a draft law on the deradation of individual matters of the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine (registration No. 8263) in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Ready to vote. Then, once again, I propose to adopt, on the basis of the drafting of the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the draft Law on Deradating the Procedures for the Resolution of Certain Issues of the Administrative and Territorial Administration of Ukraine (registration No. 8263). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:26:24]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and final without discussion. These are two projects: 9105 and 9105-1. There is a decision of today's Conciliation Council to include these bills in the agenda of the day, to define bills as urgent, and to shorten the deadline for introducing alternative bills by half. That's why I'm going to do it in turn. I'm proposing to the Conciliation Council to include Bill 9105 in the agenda of the day and an alternative to it 9105-1. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023 on the provision of security and defence sector expenditure and alternative to it. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:27:22]] For 280 Decision taken. I propose to define these bills as both urgent and shorten the deadline for introducing alternative bills by half in accordance with part three of article 50 and article 101 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:27:54]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the day-to-day agenda has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. In unity, our strength. We're working on it until we're in full victory. And the glory of Ukraine!
