ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the ruling we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today we continue our plenary session. Honorary colleagues, according to a decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, should not have all those present at the plenary to disseminate information about its beginning, race and decisions taken earlier than an hour after the announcement of the opening of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to take responsibility for the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament to ensure the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a pause in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliaments, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, representing the following countries: the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Finland, the Republic of France, the Republic of Croatia, Montenegro. [[Applause]] We also welcome today’s members of the national parliaments of Albania, Belgium, Georgia and Moldova. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, according to parliamentary tradition, we will begin our work with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Honorable National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, began a year ago on February 24, 2022, with the unprovoked full - scale military aggression of the Russian Federation against our state. This has been the case in recent history that in February we have to go through the trials of the State and at the same time at such times Ukraine is demonstrating heroism, integrity, the ability to make sign-of-the-state decisions. The Ukrainians have shown to all that it is man’s choice, each one of us is decisive, and he is the one who makes history. The Ukrainian people made their choice: we chose freedom — not slavery; democracy — not dictatorship; unity — not dishonor. Eternal glory to all who defend independence, sovereignty, and the territorial integrity of Ukraine! I ask you to honor the moment of silence of the memory of all the defenders and protectors who have given their lives for Ukraine, all the victims of the crime of aggression of the Russian terrorist state.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and we ask you to stay with them for a while. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u3	Dear Ukrainians and Ukrainians, brothers and sisters, honored foreign guests! The year is the year of integrity, the year of heroism, the year of the beginning of a full - scale war. I'm thinking back to that disturbing February morning. I remember in detail last year when you and I found ourselves in new realities. I am grateful to all of you who have been here that day and have been working here for a year, in this plenary hall, for not running away, for not betraying and hiding. As our great Taras said, "We didn't cheat with you, we just walked, we don't have a grain of lies behind us." But we also had no right to act differently when the enemy’s path became bloodied, but the unaccelerated Butch and Irpin, Borodjanka and Gostomel, Mariupol and Austal, Dnipro and Kharkiv, Herson and Mikolayev, Sumi and Zaporozhye, as well as Audiyuk and Marinka, Liman and Siversk, Soledar and Bahmut. These are toponyms of our dignity and pride, behind each of which stands the immortal feat of their heroic defenders. They have forever become engrossed in the national memory of the Ukrainian people, which no one will ever be able or dared to erase. I am proud that, along with the President and the Government of the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian State and society have been able to function in an uninterrupted manner. Since the adoption on February 24, 2022 of the wartime acts, the Ukrainian Parliament has maintained its function and has performed its function with dignity by the Ukrainian people and the Constitution. Despite the terrible blow the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the National Guard, the Police, the Security Service, our famous border guards, spies, representatives of all other services, Ukraine has not lost control of internal processes. She managed to preserve the stability of the financial, banking, tax system by proving herself to be a state, not a random creation, as the enemy tried to do. Lenin didn't come up with us saying that on the moor. [[Applause]] We are a great nation that has more than a thousand years of nation-building and, above all, a spirit of integrity. It is a unique foundation that no one has ever been able to destroy and that will surely bring about our future victory. Despite the threat of rocket fire, even though the enemy had already seen the crosses and bells of our Sofia and Lavra and the full dignity of the view of Vladimir the Great, we gathered in this room to make important decisions for the state and society. We've worked here every 365 days, and we're still working for our common victory. I would like to thank separately the Supreme Council's staff, who are conscientiously and loyally carrying out their work — important work, invaluable work. [[Applause]] Dear friends, I will rarely mention numbers today because I want to talk more about content and results, because they are the indicators of our work. We have adopted all the necessary legislative acts, directly aimed at countering the Russian Federation's armed aggression, and have given a clear definition of both aggression and the State that is carrying it out. We have completely rejected the criminal Soviet and Russian ideology and propaganda, our foreign totalitarian symbols and symbols, which have not only penetrated our tanks. Deeply aware that Ukrainians and Ukrainians later and by blood deserved to be members of a large and united European family, we all succeeded in granting Ukraine the status as a candidate for membership in the European Union. [[Applause]] And we will all witness together the opening of the intro negotiations. On September 30th, last year, when signing on a joint application for Ukraine's accession to NATO, I was and remain convinced that membership in the Alliance is the highest guarantee of our security. [[Applause]] And it is vital that we convince both those who support us and those who do not support us and those who question us. I know that this is one of the most important tasks, as is that we are very close to our Euro-Atlantic goal. Thanks to Europe's joint and delicate work, the world has been recognized and continued to recognize Russia as a terrorist state. Our partners and friends have given and continue to give a clear definition of the crimes of the Russian Federation as the genocide of the Ukrainian people. They supported the establishment of an international special tribunal to hold the aggressor responsible for murder, torture, rape. Yes, we're not alone. Taking this opportunity, I want to thank everyone who is with us in these dark times. We appreciate and will never forget the help that has been given to Ukraine by the world. We are especially grateful to the international parliamentary family. Even in wartime conditions, nearly 30 leaders of foreign national parliaments visited Ukraine. [[Applause]] That was the number of international parliamentary delegations. We held nearly a hundred international meetings in Kiev, and more than 20 international dignitaries were heard from the Supreme Council’s rostrum. We talked to each of them about the military, financial and humanitarian support of Ukraine and separately about our fellow citizens who were forced to leave Ukraine under threat of Russian fire and are now temporarily in their countries. But we know that they will definitely return home to Ukraine. We set the beginning of a parliamentary dimension initiated by the President of Ukraine, the Crimea Platform. We must work together to implement the formula for the peace of President Zelensky, which is a formula of common sense, and that is why it is readily accepted by all the civilized world. Its positions were supported by an absolute majority of 141 nations at a meeting of the General Assembly of the United Nations yesterday. [[Applause]] Our national tragedy, the Holodomor of 1932-1933, is recognized as a world act of genocide of the Ukrainian people. For the incursion of the terrible years of Soviet terror to be heard today in bitter lamentation by those who, 90 years later, lost their loved ones and loved ones in the flames of this unprovoked and unrelenting aggression. But we will surely endure and win. We will win this war, which has been going on since 2014. We'll bring back all the hostiles in the territory. We're going to free each of our soldiers from Russian captivity. We're going to bring back every Ukrainian child that's been kidnapped by Russia. We're rebuilding Ukraine and our renaissance, this is going to be the renaissance of Europe and the entire civilized world. Convinced that the restoration of Ukraine will be a matter of honor for all nations and countries that share the principles for which Ukrainians and Ukrainians today lay down their lives. But today Ukraine for the world is not just the bearer of civilizational values – Ukraine has cleared these values of rust, becoming a place where they are fought, where they are given their lives, where they are real, not theoretical or bureaucratic. Russia, Putin, and every Russian will certainly pay for the war they waged. It will be a high but fair price that has been paid by many generations of murderers of our people. Because that is justice. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, our work would not have been possible if not for those who are not present in this room today, for those who are ahead. And among us are those who have defended and continued to protect Ukraine with weapons in their hands. So our thoughts are with you today, the heroic defenders of Ukraine, the great soldiers of the great country. [[Applause]] With our volunteers who are doing the impossible for our victory; with our tireless rescuers who are pulling people out of the floods; with the energy that feeds our cities and villages after the attacks; with doctors who save the lives of soldiers and residents of peaceful cities and villages; with teachers who teach children in bomb shelters; with farmers who feed the country; with responsible businesses that work and pay taxes honestly. Our thoughts and deep gratitude to all who make it possible and impossible for us to win. Let us applaud each one of them. [[Applause]] We thank every Ukrainian and Ukrainian as an integral part of the unbreakable Ukrainian people, a nation that will surely win and rebuild, and increase the glory, the glory of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u4	In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to hold a signal vote before the question begins. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is complete, that is, before the results appear on the board. I ask you to take part in the signal vote. [[10:35:31]] For 303 For -303, against - 3, 5 - held. Well, at least less than usual. Thank you. This speaks of unity. Dear colleagues, once again, I appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, which has been decided in Parliament before an hour after the end of our work. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council is given to you. Let us go to his consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's move on to 9034. The draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments and governments of democratic states and international organizations on the occasion of the anniversary of the beginning of the full-scale (I have come into question) conquest war of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I propose to include Project 9034 in the agenda. [[10:37:44]] For 307 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make an offer to consider Project 9034 under the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:38:11]] For 283 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we begin our consideration of this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u5	The word is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. Please, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed for consideration by the draft Decision on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Parliaments and Governments of democratic states and international organizations on the occasion of the beginning of the full-scale war of the Russian Federation against Ukraine (register No. 9034). On February 24, 2022, the Russian Federation launched a large - scale invasion of its regular army into Ukraine. This unprovoked, unwarranted armed attack was a continuation of Russian aggression against Ukraine, which the Kremlin regime began in 2014. Over the course of the year, the Russian Federation has been engaged in massive artillery shellings and rocket attacks, bomb attacks on locations, and critical infrastructure in Ukraine. As a result of armed aggression, more than 8 million Ukrainian citizens were forced to seek relief abroad, and nearly 6.9 million Ukrainians became internally displaced. By its actions, the Russian Federation has once again grossly violated the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine within internationally recognized borders, as well as a number of international and legal acts of a multilateral and bilateral nature. The draft decree proposes to call, in particular, the governments and parliaments of democratic states and international organizations to increase military assistance and political support for Ukraine, to strengthen sanctions against the aggressor country, to recognize the Russian Federation as a sponsor of terrorism and its actions by the genocide of the Ukrainian people, to support the Green Peace formula proposed by President Volodymyr of Ukraine, to use all tools to bring to justice the irreparable responsibility of those responsible for committing war crimes and crimes against humanity in Ukraine, and to call for the responsibility of the military and political leadership of the Russian Federation for committing the crime of aggression by creating a special international tribunal. In view of the foregoing, I ask you to support and vote on this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u7	Thank you. Request to sign up for the performance. Are we from the committee, Alexander Alexander the Network? Please. You don't have to? Okay. Then two in, two in, against, please, from factions and groups. Ah, three minutes each. Okay. Then sign up for the performance and let's do another record. Sign up for three minutes from the factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u8	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" Group. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! During this year the Supreme Council has demonstrated the unity of positions of all political powers. We unanimously supported all decisions aimed at protecting Ukraine, its territorial integrity, the support of a soldier and every Ukrainian citizen. The modern history of the world is written today by Ukraine, the ink of our Ukrainian blood. All the global shifts caused by war that took place in the geopolitical, economic, social, military and political spheres are irreversible. They have led to significant changes, changes in security approaches, forced nations to make clear their position, forced all the civilized countries of the world to act. More than ever since World War II, the world is united in this war around Ukraine. More than ever since World War II, the world is divided between light and darkness and the border is the river of Ukrainian blood, will, power, strength, strength, victory. And there's nothing left that needs proof and evidence. On February 24, it clearly defined "before" and "after," including internal political contradictions. Russia's full-scale invasion of Russia, which was intended to destroy our nation's subjectivity, clearly shows that the Russian Federation is an aggressor state. The conduct of the terrorist war at the same time as the military acts clearly shows that the Russian Federation is a state-of-the-art terrorist. All war crimes against the civilian population, millions of people seeking protection abroad, millions of internally displaced people, tens of thousands of deported children, thousands of stolen children -- all of these are undisputed testimony to the genocide of the Ukrainian nation, crimes against humanity. Ukraine’s support for the world is remarkable. The world’s order is changing and changing when Ukraine wins. But at the moment, the battlefield is Ukraine, and every Ukrainian with a gun in his hand, every civilian who works to win, every doctor who treats, every teacher who teaches, every communator who recovers, every child in the bomb shelter, is a part of the fighting. This should also apply to national deputies. Persuaded, every national MP who is absent from the Hall on February 24 must be likened to a soldier who has left a part of it and is not merely a political one, but a criminal one for his actions. We don't need conditional peace. Ukraine needs an undeniable victory. Victory in which the enemy is destroyed. A victory won by a weapon. Thus, when we look to the governments of democratic countries, we emphasize this very understanding of the end of the war. Praise the Armed Forces, especially the Troi Force! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u10	Please, Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u11	Please pass the word Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u12	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, such insane hypocrisy. You know, those who probably planned another year of this day to celebrate here the anniversary of the restoration of the Soviet Union, and probably planned to become a decoration for the legitimization of the occupation of Ukraine, today beat themselves in the chest and tell them what mad patriots they are. We have to listen to it with you, and hear about how Ukraine has to help when they've been bringing "Russian peace" here in their bloody activities for decades. It's a shame. But I, colleagues, would like to say something else today. For nine years we have held the front, the perp of the civilized world. For nine years, our defence forces have kept the borders of democracy and the rule of law and the hope that international law will be restored. In the last year, the world has finally changed. In the last year after the beginning of full-scale aggression, we see tectonic shifts in our partners' politics. And finally, we get not only humanitarian support, political, financial support, but real support for weapons. Because you and I know, this courage, this incredible force of our Armed Forces, our defenses are not enough to win this war -- we need tools. And that's why we're addressing the free nations of the world to help us with these tools in order to give us completely all kinds of weapons that will allow us to plan such operations to drive the barbaric horde out of our country. I'm sure we can do this. But you and I, colleagues, do not have to put our efforts together in writing, but in order to continue to insist on this help, to maintain the world’s interest in our struggle, the sacred struggle, but at the same time to do our homework in order not to lose the historic opportunity that we have been given along with the candidate status for Ukraine. I'm sure we can do this, but we really have to work together and do the homework that we're given. We're both going to be members of the European Union, and we're going to be members of the North Atlantic Alliance, because we're going to win. The truth is on our side. In the fight between evil and good, Ukraine is a warrior of good. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u14	Please give the word Valery Sergiyovich, the deputy group "Delivery of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u15	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The proposed appeal will be a powerful signal to the world for the need for further resistance to unprovoked armed aggression against our country and for the speedy search for ways to establish peace, based on international law and the promotion of the national sovereignty of our country, and for the liberation of its territories from occupation. One such tool is the formula for peace offered by our President Vladimir Zelensky. It is good that the formula for peace is already supported by a positive UN resolution yesterday, nearly 141 countries, more than three quarters of all parliamentarians who today support our state. Without a doubt, this appeal by the Supreme Council will be a further expression of the unity of all branches of Ukrainian power and of society in the determination to protect our nation from invaders and the course to restore control of the entire territory within internationally recognized borders. There are no other prerequisites for future peace, except for the full withdrawal of Russian troops from our territory. Convinced that after our victory, all involved in armed aggression will be held accountable, particularly within the framework of a separate special military tribunal. At the same time, postwar reconstruction and compensation for damage to Ukrainian society must take place at the expense of those frozen assets of the Russian Federation, and the punishment of the aggressor will be irreversible. Thank you for your courage. It'll all be Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u16	The word is given to Solomia Anatolyevna Bobrovsky, the faction of the political party "The Voice". Please, Julia Leonidina Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, we were given 48 hours a year ago and prepared to see Ukraine fall. Since then it has been 8,000 760 hours of our struggle for our independence, for our right to live as a free country, with democratic values, for our right to join Europe, to be part of Europe and to be part of developed alliances. And we're going to choose the year and we're going to choose the year. At this time, in a year, and even in the first few days, all the state, private, banking institutions, Ukraine worked, there was no stop time. And even online schools were renewed three days after the Russian invasion. I think the Ukrainian case is going to be seen for years and years at universities and at think-tanks like a country with a country. At the same time, the second, it turns out, not entirely the second, the army of the world, stood up and was able to continue completely all -- all state and non-state services for its citizens. I say so because Russia and our colleagues sitting in this room, the pro-Russians, have always promoted the narrative that Ukraine is not a state that Ukraine is unable to provide itself. It was a major narrative that was always being promoted by the pro-Russian forces and Russia on international pitches. We proved that this was not the case. Unlike Russia, we have maintained control of the state, of all services, and we will continue to work. Unfortunately, war takes the best. Unfortunately, the war took 40 percent of our economy. Regrettably, the war forced 14, some 15 million Ukrainians to become either internally displaced or to move abroad, saving themselves from war. We lost a very large number of cities, damaged housing, infrastructure, and much more. So by calling and calling on our international partners, we want one thing: Please give us the opportunity to end the war quickly to preserve millions of thousands of lives of children, Ukrainians, civilian, military. Give us weapons not over a year, give us one moment so that we can drive Russia out of our territory and start sorting. Because otherwise the longer the war continues, the more regrettably the civilian casualties will be. We also encourage our partners to start not only freezing, but confiscating, selling Russian assets to the state, oligarchy and channeling this money.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u18	The word is given to the People's Deputy Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, dear Ukrainian people, brothers and sisters! A year ago, when this terrible morning came, everyone was in great shock, as life would continue in the coming hours, in the coming days, how huge the threat to the entire Ukrainian nation is. And you and I, after meeting here in this room, probably everyone saw these millions of confused eyes, which unfortunately, through Russian rockets, bombs, the invaders lost their homes, moved in search of something better to the West, to Europe, to another world. We also saw millions of courageous hearts, these eyes, with great zeal, men, women who took up arms, who began to defend themselves on different fronts, in different territories of our nation. Sadly, some of them gave their most precious lives. And probably every one of you has such special moments when you've been in the farewells with our heroes, each of us understands and sees that, in principle, in every village, in every town and city, there are cemeteries where blue and yellow flags, unfortunately. But thanks to these heroes, blue and yellow flags are also found in all the cities, towns, villages of our country. They are majoring in Kiev, majoring in Bahmut, and they are also majoring in this world as a whole, both in Europe and in hundreds of cities. They respect the Ukrainian flag everywhere, respect the Ukrainian language everywhere, and respect Ukrainian courage everywhere. So today, on this special day, we appeal to the international community, to parliaments and governments, and to the leaders of these countries, who have been helping us throughout this year, with gratitude, with the call to join and support Ukraine with arms to win this victory financially so that we can rebuild the infrastructure in Ukraine, to bring about peace in Ukraine, in Europe and in the world, and, of course, by the international tribunal, so that these Kremlinists, in fact, are held accountable for their crimes. Praise the Armed Forces!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u20	The word is given to the National MP Batenek Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u21	Ukraine will never forget February 24, 2022, and the first victims of full - scale Russian aggression. It will never forget a single episode of this war that has been going on for nine years. This memory will not even be wiped out through generations and centuries, nor will the wickedness and curses directed at Putina and Russia itself be wiped out. Russia as an accomplice to its vast majority of citizens of crimes against the Ukrainian nation. We remember and do not forgive. Thus, no one in the world can understand the pain of Ukrainians, such as ourselves, the pain of losing loved ones, homes, and cultural possessions. But we realize that if there were no strong support from the countries of the civilized world, Ukraine would probably not have survived. Because we cannot be completely prepared for war when this country was robbed, eaten by corruption and defeat for many years. This war is far from local and not even European. This war is a war of the state with the schizophrenic mania of world domination of total terror. No one has been so dispersed in the dictators ’ camp in the past year and throughout the nuclear resistance with indications of the possibility of nuclear weapons being used by Russia and its leader. Russia today is a threat to human existence, to human civilization. So it's not a European war or a non-local conflict. The Ukrainian Parliament, with little exception from individuals, did not escape this year. It's slow, but it's getting cleaned up. We've shown maximum solidarity in our history. Some of us are still ahead of schedule, although this is not part of the law. In parallel with Parliament, the judicial system, customs, and law enforcement authorities must be cleaned. All this time, we want to reach out to many nations of the world who have not yet recognized Russia as a sponsor of terrorism and its actions as a genocide of the Ukrainian people. Evil must be punished, and absolute evil must be punished completely. Friends, and a year later, Kiev will stand and stand as the capital. "Kyiv stands strong," we are particularly grateful for the American President's words, because the two-party support of the United States was one of the decisive in this war and remains so. And many more days of war ahead. But the prospect of conquering the empire of freedom and democracy today is absolutely impossible. And yesterday's vote in the UN for the Ukrainian formula for peace strengthens our faith -- faith in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and faith in our victory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u22	The word is given to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko, the faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, none of the factions want to speak anymore, so let's move on to the vote. People's deputies, please prepare, and while Julia Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u23	Just a year ago, we went to bed in a peaceful, normal country. We were awakened in the morning, not by alarm clocks, but by enemy missiles. Just a year ago, the world was preparing to write to us necrologists, epitaphs of our independent Ukraine. We were pitied, but without hope. We were helped, but we did not believe in this help. We wanted to endure, although we did not expect to succeed. Just a year ago, hundreds of our boys and girls went to defend Ukraine. It was by means of them that we endured, did not break, nor did we turn our backs on the enemy. It was such a worldwide miracle that the whole world was still impressed. We Ukrainians are capable of the impossible. Eternal glory to our heroes who have fallen for Ukraine! Everlasting gratitude to all the heroes who have defended us and will certainly protect us! It didn't work out in three days, and it'll never go out in three days, not in three years, not in three centuries. It's impossible to capture the enemy's Ukrainian land. It's only possible to capture the enemy's Ukrainian land. Let every enemy know. In the last two millenniums, at least five world empires have found rest here in Ukraine. They're done here. Today, another Russian is preparing to rest. We are protecting Ukraine, but we are protecting the entire democratic world. Our soldiers shed blood on the battlefield so that this blood will not be shed in Poland, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Romania tomorrow. We kill, we hit enemy missiles so they don't fly to New York, London, Paris, Berlin tomorrow. We thank all countries for their help. We thank the pro-Ukrainian coalition, which now has more than 50 countries. But we need weapons, we have a moral right to demand weapons, because we fight for all. Give us the long-range missiles, the planes, give us more tanks, and we'll bring the world back to stability and peace. We will destroy that plague of the 21st century. We don't know exactly when this war will end. We don't know when there's gonna be a victory parade. And we can't say that for sure how many more air alarm sirens we have to survive. But I'm sure, like all Ukrainians, the result of this war is only one thing: Ukraine's 1991 borders, victory, peace, that's exactly the order. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u24	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this very important issue. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments and governments of democratic states and international organisations on the occasion of the start of the full-scale Russian Federation war against Ukraine (registration number of the draft Decree 9034). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:04:13]] For 313 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Who's with the procedure? Ivanka, please, Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, I think this is a very important call to the world. And it would be important for the Ukrainians to be able to see all of this discussion and presentation of this statement in the network. So I'd like to put, Mr. Head, to the vote, so that this slot is fully shown in the recording on the "Council" channel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u26	Thank you, Ivana Orestovna. Dear colleagues, you have understood the offer of Ivana Orestovna. This is the first block of the Supreme Council we've ever spent in the network of the Council TV. Please, I'm putting this motion to a vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:05:23]] For 295 Decision taken. Thank you, Ivana Orestovna. Dear colleagues, next questions. The Supreme Council of Ukraine received statements from the Ukrainian National Deputies: the Royal Natalia Jurijovna, Solod Jurija Vasilovich, Volosin Oleg Anatoliyovich, on the composition of their parliamentary powers pursuant to article 81, paragraph 1, of the second part of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Rules considered these claims. For this reason, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has registered appropriate draft regulations for registration numbers 9039, 9040, and 9057. At the Conciliation Council, we decided, in accordance with article 28 of the Rules, to unify the discussions on these related issues. So I'm making a proposal to discuss these issues with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:06:24]] For 260 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Well, let's move on to the question. I give the floor to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka. Please, in two minutes, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u27	Honorable Presidium, honourable national deputies, since it has been decided to unify the consideration of these matters, I will actually repeat what the Head of the Supreme Council has said. The Regulatory Committee reviewed the statements made by the National Deputies of Solod, Royal and Volosin on the early termination of their powers in accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and following consideration of these statements the Regulatory Committee decided and three draft relevant decisions were made by the members of the Committee. The Legislature asks Parliament to support these three draft decrees by voting and to suspend the mandate of the Royal, Solod and Volosin deputies in the short term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the representatives of the MP factions and groups to sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against. Please sign up. Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "Platform for Life and Peace" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u29	I ask you to put it to the vote without discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u30	Please, we can't do this without talking, we're already in discussion, Vasil Ivanovich. Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u31	I beg you to give Mary to Jonah, Mr. Head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u32	Please, Maria Mikolayovna Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, Your Honor, your colleagues! To be honest, the year of full-scale invasion and the country is causing enormous losses, and it is tragic today to discuss the representatives of the OPCW, the people who brought Putin’s policies to Ukraine, and they are still members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And why are they still here? The royal from Luhansk was represented by Solod, the front of Slovenia. Instead of now doing both evacuation and humanitarian aid to their voters, this cute couple now represents the Dubai Battalion. And at a time when they're enjoying life in the most expensive country in the world, and apparently they've made all this money in the pro-Russian rhetoric in Ukraine. Volosin is Janukovic's lieutenant, who here called us all "sorts" and pigs, but he fled before the war. Now, according to some information, he's opening a door to Medvedchuk's office in Moscow. So listen to the people on the front, please, who really made the country last this year. And ask, who are their enemies? Not only the Russians and not only the proputinian Russia, but also the collaborators who are still in this room. Mr. Head, you said very correctly yesterday that you were against the OPCW in the hall. Introduce them to be suspended for at least one session. And let me quote you on what you said today: "Clean away from the tree of the Supreme Council." So please either set up a European Solidarity Decision to deprive them of their leadership positions at least. You know, Parliament is accountable to our Ukrainian defenders every day, every day to continue this disgrace. And we're paying a very bloody price for our freedom, and we need to restore justice and reject the LLC from the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u34	The word is given to Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenk, please the faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u35	Thank you, Mr. Head. Indeed, this year, Russia began an active phase of armed aggression. But Russia came to Ukraine not on February 24, but on February 14. The war has been going on in Ukraine since 2014. And it brought Russia to Ukraine, not even the OPCW, but the Party of Regions. A party of regions brought this abomination here to our territory. By the way, I want to point out that in the past week, the court has declared an illegal party of regions. Therefore, I recommend to all draft regulations that are being tabled in the session hall for the members of the OPCW to add to the ban on the Party of the Regions in Ukraine. Fatherland is a systematic opponent of the Party of the Regions. Our leader was in prison for two and a half years. It was abandoned by the Yanukovich regime, the Party of Regions along with Putin and Russia. That's why we have the right to talk about the political responsibility of those who supported the Party of Regions in Ukraine. In fact, one of the reasons for the ban on the Party of the Regions was the criminal actions of the Party of the Regions during the adoption of the Kharkiv Treaties. I remember this session hall on April 24, 2010. But I also remember saying that the Kharkiv Accords is the art of compromise, that it's the art of diplomacy. Therefore, the political responsibility of those who brought the Russian invader to our territory, not on February 24, 2022, is really necessary. That is why we are systematically voting in favour of depriving these people of their mandates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u36	The word is given to the national MP Makarov. I understand he's passing it on to Lozinski. Please, Password Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u37	Good afternoon, dear fellows, dear Ukrainians! Very often from my brothers, I hear one phrase, either on the front of the task, or it's after the task, or it's already in peaceful cities where everyone has the opportunity to rest. It's the phrase, "God forbid it's all for nothing. Don't God let all these sacrifices be in vain." They don't say, God forbid we die, they don't say about any other technical moments, about their lost legs, about their lost sometimes, unfortunately, fate, they say, "Oh, God, this is all going to be in vain." Why do they say that? Because it's very difficult to clean up our country. In many of us, close soldiers died in 2014 and 2015. But long after that, in 2016, in 2018, in 2020, the same members of the Party of the Regions had already recoloured and sat on the Defence Committee. What can be said by a closed session of the Defence Committee during a war when criminals sit there? Despite our deaths in 2014-2015, we have had these turnarounds in international delegations, which have usually been sitting in this part of the hall since 2019 and unfortunately are still sitting. And it is our great responsibility to make this cleansing real, not half a step. And, Mr. Golovo, in addition to the statements we receive in this room, Bill 7476 is a government-registered committee that has supported it, depriving members of the local councils: Shariyev, Opoblok, Party of Regions, OPCW -- they are still deputizing local councils. And it is our responsibility to vote in this room. I urge the next session to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, thank you. The discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. We agreed to make all these decisions in turn because we had one discussion. So please prepare for the vote, there will be three consecutive ballots. And so, first, according to part two, part four of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Ordinance (registration number 9039) on the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Solod Jury Vasilovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:15:58]] For 325 Decision taken. Next. In accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Order (Registration No. 9040) on the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Jurijovna. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:16:39]] For 332 In accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Ordinance (Registration No. 9057) on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Volosin Oleg Anatoliyovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:17:18]] For 330. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next, my fellow Members, we agreed, without discussion, to adopt a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the National Parliaments of the States Parties to the First Parliamentary Summit of the Crimea Platform on the occasion of the 9th anniversary of the attempted annexation and temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the City of Sevastopol by the Russian Federation on the consolidation of actions aimed at further resistance to the occupation of the peninsula and overcoming the consequences of such occupation after its cessation (registration No. 9035). I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the day's session Project Rule 9035. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:18:26]] For 329 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the National Parliaments of the States Parties to the First Parliamentary Summit of the Crimea Platform on the occasion of the 9th anniversary of the attempted annexation and temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol by the Russian Federation on the consolidation of actions aimed at further resistance to the occupation of the peninsula and overcoming the consequences of such occupation after its termination (registration number of Decree 9035). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:19:21]] For 330. Decision taken. We also agreed to accept the following Decree No. 9038 without discussion. This is a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the UN Committee on Human Rights, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, the UN International Court of Justice, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for the violation by the Russian Federation of international treaties (conventions) that have signs of genocide against the Ukrainian people in part of their forced deportation to the aggressor State or within the occupied territories of Ukraine of children, Ukrainian citizens and children living in Ukraine and requiring their children to return to their parents or legal representatives. I propose to include in the agenda of the day’s session a draft Decree (registration number 9038). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:20:22]] For 331 Decision taken. I propose that, in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Human Rights Committee, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, the United Nations International Court of Justice, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees on violations by the Russian Federation of International Treaties (Conventions) of genocide against the Ukrainian people as part of the forced deportation to the aggressor State or within the occupied territories of Ukraine of Ukrainian children and children living in the territory of Ukraine and requiring the return of these children to their parents or legal representatives (registration number of the draft Decree 9038). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:21:19]] For 330. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two more questions: 0182, 0183, there's one discussion on two questions, right, Alexander Sergiyovich? Then, honourable colleagues, the Conciliation Council decided that, in accordance with article 28 of the Rules, it would bring together discussions on related issues 0182 and 0183. And that's why I'm now putting to the vote the proposal to discuss these issues under a reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:22:08]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please. Then two in, two in, against, please, let's sign up. Two in, two in. And then we vote on two orders in a row. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich Eutuszek, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u39	Please pass the word to John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u40	Ivan Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u41	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We have united discussions with two questions, they are different, but they are related to one another by spirit. Because of the fact that Ukraine on this symbolic day, a difficult, tragic day of the anniversary of Russian aggression against Ukraine, has been deciding to implement a very important idea, an idea that we had to make since 1991. It's a simple idea: get away from Moscow. The less we have to do with this country, the sooner we will stand on our feet as an independent state and be able to build our European future. Two bills. One of these concerns the denunciation of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Russian Federation in the use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait. In fact, this is the sea that Russia has turned completely into a sea of war, a completely closed area where there is no economy or trade. A completely militarized zone, replaced. And the Russian Federation is doing the same thing in the Black Sea issue, and this is the second draft on Ukraine's withdrawal from the deal that envisioned cooperation between Black Sea countries, BLACKSEAFOR. But in fact, the Russian Federation has shown by its actions that it does not want any cooperation. She's in control. She wants a mastery, full mastery. But as a Ukrainian state, we won't give it to them. And our victory will be a review of all contractual relations and putting Russia in the place that it rightfully has to occupy. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of both these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction. Please, Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I am the author of these two bills on the denunciation of treaties, which Ukraine signed many years ago. The agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on cooperation and the use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait was signed on December 24, 2003, ratified on April 20, 2004. Sadly, this was done by Ukraine. Ukraine signed that the Azov Sea actually turned into a lake and actually became where Russia is a dominant that doesn't allow it to be used by Ukraine, even now if we were to liberate these territories, we would, if you understood, under this agreement we can't even touch the FSB ships that are there. So a shameful absolute treaty that had to be dissolved many years ago. We have been holding a treaty for 20 years that is absolutely harmful to Ukrainian national interests and security. The second treaty was signed on April 2, 2001 and ratified on June 5, 2003. It's about cooperation, naval cooperation in the Black Sea, so-called BLACKSEAFOR, which includes Bulgaria, Georgia, Romania, Turkey and Ukraine, and Russia. Please tell me, after 2014, what joint trainings can we talk about, patrolling? Both of these treaties are absolutely harmful to our national security, they bind our hands, they prevent us from using our territories, the seas for trade, or the Navy. So, honourable colleagues, we support, we break up, and we don't even think that we did it, it had to be done much earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u44	Thank you. Please, here's to Kucher Mikli Ivanovich, speaking for Saucy Oksana Vasilovna, please. This is the time of the Trust Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u45	Glory to Ukraine! We make decisions that are very crucial today. We cut off the past, cut off the infamous ends that were accepted by the previous calls of the Supreme Council when they made us friends with the enemy when they tried to tell us that they were our neighbors and our brothers when they tried to tell us something about the rights of the superiors. And there were what was called the Fifth Column of Moscow, which was doing everything possible to make Ukraine weaker than in the background of control over the Black Seas and the Asian Seas, just like in the background of the battlefield. But in this year, we have understood, and we all have made sure that today all that was planned by our neighbor will never be realized. It's a battle for the past, it's a battle for the present and it's a battle for the future. And this battle of Ukraine will win both in the battlefield today and we will win it at sea. So it's very important to get rid of all the past rudiments, forget and cancel all the agreements we've had with the aggressor, the Russian Federation, take away both the heroes of Ukraine, and all the other honourable signs of all those people who are not worthy to have something with them, a fraction of Ukraine. And these things that we have after a year of active incursion, we continue to do. Because you can see how many deals today have not yet been broken up. And at this difficult time, today I urge all of us not only to vote for Ukraine to show its full right to the Black Sea, but also to take other important steps to carry out quality cleansing, illustration, our legitimate identities. And do everything possible to make war not only Ukrainian form but also Ukrainian meaning.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u46	Please give the word to Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u47	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we are now breaking our agreements with Russia on the Black Sea, on the Azov Sea. It's absolutely the right thing to do. There's this Putin saying to himself: The sea of Asia is ours, the inner sea. Here's the Azov Sea! That's the Black Sea! There's Ukraine! The Black Sea will smile again, it will be our victory, it will be our sea, it will be our ships walking on. I want to remind you how recently, unfortunately, even in our country, there were cases under the Kerchen Strait when Ukrainian ships from the Ukrainian Odessa to the Ukrainian Mariupol went through the Ukrainian Kerchen Strait. It can't be. It was Ukrainian, it is, it will be. Today we have to ask the whole world this question about the Black Sea, because Putin is trying to close it. Since the ancient, ancient Greeks, the Black Sea has been the breadwinner of the free world. And today the whole world has felt when Putin closed the Black Sea, what terrible consequences this is, what terrible consequences all over the world! So, my friends, our mission is to open the Black Sea, our task is to get the ships out of Odessa again, into Odessa with grain, with metal, with everything else needed for the whole world. Because the Black Sea is a vital direction. And the roadside attempt to attack the Black Sea, the shipping we certainly have to stop, we will stop it. Glory be to the naval forces of Ukraine! I want to remind you that the Moscow rocket cruiser has already turned into an underwater boat, the same thing will happen to all of Russia's Black Sea fleet, it has to be destroyed. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Today's 366th, February, but victory will follow us!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussions on these issues. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. As we agreed, one discussion, but we vote in turn. Let's start with the first one. I'm laying the groundwork, and I'm proposing to take it as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on Denunciation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait (registration No. 0182). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:32:34]] For 303 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the proposal of the Committee and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft law on the withdrawal from the Treaty establishing the Black Sea Group of Maritime Cooperation of 2 April 2001 (registration number of draft law 0183). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:33:18]] For 305 Decision taken. Both laws were passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Moving on, 8092, we agreed without discussion -- this is a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the registered residence of minors for a period of temporary occupation by the Russian Federation of Ukraine. So I'm proposing to adopt the bill, registration number 8092. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:34:10]] For 309 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next bill is not discussed either, it's 8303. This is a bill amending article 2 of the Ukrainian National Guard Act to improve the regulatory regulation of the Ukrainian National Guard. That's why I'm taking turns. I'm proposing to adopt the bill, registration number 8303. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:34:54]] For 291 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian National Guard Act on the improvement of the regulatory and legal regulation of the Ukrainian National Guard (registration No. 8303). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:35:30.]] For 293 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, next to the second reading. Act 7475 is a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the Ukrainian state border. We've had two or three revisions from the EC. Can we vote now? We're voting right now, aren't we? Thank you. Dear colleagues, then I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the protection of the Ukrainian state border (registration number of draft Law 7475). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:36:28]] For 310 Decision taken. Congratulations, the law has been passed. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next bill 8399. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023. Please, I'd like to invite Roxolan Andriyevna here. Dear colleagues, as far as I know, there was an agreement: each faction first speaks to the amendments that, after we go through the adjustments to account, if we want, will be amended to confirm and then we vote. Which faction do we start with? "Serve of the people," who will we have? We have Beermakers instead of our amendments 5, 7, 27, 36, 59, 61, 296, 419 – 5 minutes of performance. Please, the Pivovarov People's Deputy. Eugene Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u49	Dear Mr. Head, thank you very much. First of all, I want to say thank you very much to our U.S.S.S. soldiers, who have been defending our country for a year. As far as the right is concerned, it's a very large area that applies to every person in our country -- it's about heat and water. Unfortunately, at this time of war, all the heatcommuneers and all the water ducts are operating in conditions of a very large financial crisis. Why did this happen? As it was decided that they would not raise tariffs, the state imposed a moratorium on tariff increases. In order to understand that more heat and water canals work at the 2018 tariff level and to date, they provide services of less than 30 percent of their value. The State made a commitment to compensate for the difference in tariffs. Sadly, though, neither in 2021 nor in 2022, she did not pay any fines for this particular compensation. So, my friends, we made a decision and we adopted last year the Law 2479 on the Regulation of the Specificity of the Gas Market, in which the same mechanism was put in place. Sadly, though, it does not work today. The debt of water and heat and electricity for today alone for the supply of gas is already more than 80 billion NAC Naftogaz. And to date, we predict that the verified amount of commitments for 2023 will be more than 36 billion in terms of differences in these tariffs alone. Friends, it's about the heat and the water that our people get every day. So they can no longer perform their functions on their own. They need help. So we need to work and we need to develop a legislative framework to support them. Here, too, we need to talk about local self - government bodies that really help them survive today. But in the face of a significant reduction in the cost of utilities that we understand objectively, local budgets are no longer able to deal with this on their own. In the year 2022 alone, more than 54 billion of the local budgets were listed for heating power and water. But unfortunately, today, the city mayors say that we can't keep moving in this direction on our own. So, dear friends, I'm drawing your attention, it's very important, we need to draft a law on how to solve this situation, it's already in crisis today, and unfortunately it has negative trends. Thank you very much, and I invite everyone to work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u50	Thank you, Eugene Pavlovich, thank you. You don't insist on putting them on, do you? Thank you. All right, then. Let's move on. Galina Mikolayovna Tretlyakova from "Serve of the People" 317 amendment. Right, Galina Mikolayevna? Turn on Galini Mikolayevni from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u51	Thank you. 317 revisions, please, colleagues. Attention, this was adopted in the budget in 2022 and supported by the President, and disappeared in the budget in 2023. It says that damage to life and health should also be paid from the damage management fund. The alternative solutions are to create a budget programme that, unfortunately, has not been created previously. But there's a flaw in this alternative. If we do this through a budget program, we can't translate regression into the Russian Federation, or create another supplementary liquidation fund, from which we can pay for human life and health. If you create an extra fund, it's going to look pretty weird. International partners are surprised that the damage management fund is not used primarily for damage to life and health. I have a request for everyone to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u52	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the committee did not support this amendment because the government has reached a principle agreement that this issue should be governed by other rules that will be submitted by the end of March in the new bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u54	Galina Mikolayevna, you insist, right? I'm making an offer. Rather, the 317 amendment of the Trinitarian People’s Deputy is rejected by the Committee. A national MP asks for this decision. this amendment for confirmation. I'm betting on confirmation of 317 amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:43:17]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. From the "Serve of the People," is anyone else going to put their amendments on the line? There will be no one else. "European Solidarity," please, who will it be from you? Let's start in a row, shall we? Bondar, just call the repair number first, Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u55	Mr. Ruslan, I'm ready to take all my things off because I've got about 300 amendments, and I'm ready to take them off, give me two minutes and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u56	Please give 3 minutes to the Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, all the amendments that I've made are after these appeals that have come to me from all of us: from the military, from the medics, from the educators, from the miners. And why I took two minutes instead of making one or the other, because they're all important and it's not possible to separate one or the other. So I'm just going to hope that in the further development of the 2023 budget, these amendments, which have been rejected, will still be worked by the committee and will find a way to take them into account. First of all, these are our military, coal miners, medics, educators, as I have already stressed. Because all of their references to me, they're clear, they're argumentative, why we need to increase funding for one sector or another. So I'm going to ask you a lot of questions, in the future, so that you don't have to have questions like this when you're considering the bill, so let's take it down, take it down, let's make some adjustments, put it into the future that they're going to be counted. I hope that the committee will really make every effort to ensure that these amendments are taken into account, the sources of funding for those sectors have been found, and then we will really be a faction of "European Solidarity" supporting those bills. Thank you. I hope that's the way it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u58	Thank you, Mikhail Leontijovich. If you don't mind, I'll respond briefly. I absolutely agree with the approach that we need, factions, to gather together, to think about the mechanism that should ensure the level of pay for our military work that is needed today. I think we're going to find consensus in the hall, I think factions have an opportunity to agree both within the Conciliation Board to create a working group and to make adjustments. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Who else from European Solidarity? Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Please call the amendment number first. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u59	I have a lot of changes, not very, thirteen majors: 403, 424th, 425th, 614th, 15th, 16th and so on. I'll be there in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u60	So 10 minutes, and we don't fix it. Please, Nina Petrovna, in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u61	I'll be up to 10 minutes and I'll put two adjustments on the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u62	By Account or by Confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u63	That's what I'm talking about. We're on our way.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u64	On account of that, yes. Please, Nina Petrovna, by 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, don't you think it's very symbolic that we've been looking at changes to the state budget for over a year, and you've been very skeptical about the proposals of European Solidarity to increase the financing of our army, to increase the expenses of an orderly such as the Ministry of Defence. At that time, we did not find an understanding, but we should have found it by now. At the time, it seemed to many that the war was far away, and some here beat themselves in the chest, and said that we had a well-funded army. And when it happened, a massive war broke out, and it turned out that it was all over the volunteers again. So today, all of our amendments are in the context of our draft Law 9006 by Peter Alexiyovich, our, most of our colleagues from European Solidarity, who are offering the next 54 billion dollars with an absolutely transparent source of financing to target development, a special programme, a budget programme, development, purchase, modernization and repair of military equipment, equipment and equipment. If you look closely, and I think we're now in the process of negotiating with the budget committee, and we're talking most of the time about going back to Project 906. Because, in fact, we now have reserves, we have reserves that you fought hard for when you adopted the budget for 2023. I'm talking about the road fund, the formation of the road fund, and the surplus costs for many of the supervisors that I talked about when I adopted the budget, but you didn't listen to them. These are all the sources that today, especially important on this day, we should be focusing exclusively and starting with this conversation, not on any issues there, but on how we can fix the situation with the difference of payments of 30,000, special supplements. There's supposed to be a discussion right now about what needs to be done, and then all the other questions. If we get out of the hall today and say we've been looking at the budget changes, but for you, the honorable soldiers, because, frankly, we didn't make a payment order of 30 and 100,000, we didn't make any changes to that decision, but everyone on the front thinks that it's the people's deputies who are responsible for the change in payments. They don't respect us, and they think we're doing the most bad things for them right now. Because our military will get the first payout for change, that is, a significant reduction for them only in March, we have, colleagues, a possibility, and that is why we are now making some adjustments. We hope that, along with the authorities, we will be working on changes to either our draft Law 9006, or the draft Law of Power, or we will be working with the authorities to deal with payments to the military on an urgent basis. So when we talk about the additional costs, 54 billion, we make sure that the funding you've been provided for is fully available. I wanted my colleagues to answer the question honestly right now. We have foreseen in the supplementary budget for everyone under the same procedure as before. Why do you begin to spend money on other non-defence programs without discussing the problem? Dear colleagues, I understand that the grain corridor is needed, and other issues are urgently needed, there is responsibility for the loans that are taken under State guarantees. But in the first place did we fall asleep again, as some said, in a peaceful country? Yes, we have a continuing war, and it has not stopped for one day from these terrible years since 2014. How can we now, without resolving this global issue, accept changes to the budget? I actually, if I were in power, we should stop right now, make the right changes regarding payments to the military, in any case, once a majority wants to solve this issue on their own, let's just help you solve this question. Or go back to our 906 project. So I insist, I appeal to the committee head, please at the nearest possible meetings, let's discuss the settlement of the matter. I want what Mr. President of the Supreme Council has said that we will meet together to resolve the issue in a timely manner. Maybe we'll still be able to keep our soldiers from getting this first month and there's not going to be the kind of disappointment that's going to happen. It will be not only in showing disrespect for us but also in leaving simply, God forbid, in carrying out his duties. And then we're definitely not going to be able to get together in this room and talk about the hotels about the roads, about any other wishes, about financing the restoration of housing there on the basis of a variety of offers that are completely opaque. I think it's a top priority for us to get the budget right now and direct all the reserves so that, given the situation, we can secure all the nearest months of payment to the military. So I'm going to ask you to consider amendment 403, which is about counting 51 billion 135 million 771 thousand on this particular program for the Ministry of Defence. This will allow us to take the first step. I know exactly what the numbers are. The amount of funding payments now, they're huge, we're not going to sound them. But these are the first funds, the first reserves that can be painlessly rescinded and sent to the Ministry of Defense. And, if you look at it from fiscal policy and budget literacy, we can definitely figure out with you how to cut spending on a special fund under "Network Development and Maintenance of Motorways," we have every reason to do that. We know that now, with the support of the World Bank, Ukraine will receive $535 million in grants to repair and restore the transport network. So, colleagues, to talk about what it takes to build roads, we have sources. But they're going to be controlled by the World Bank, they're going to have special reporting on it, and they're not going to be able to use it in a non-target, actually, way that they've done it in the past few years. So I think it's a reliable source, a more reliable source than we now have in our budget. So 75 percent of this program can be taken from the Ministry of Defense. The following program, "Network development and maintenance of public value roads" is also 75 percent. And of course, we have a special fund under the budget programme "Doing Debts for Borrowings by a State Under State Guarantees for Developing a Road Network." Here is a total of 18 billion 517 million free funds, because Mr. Schmigal himself wrote that our creditors, our lenders, have delayed the repayment of the debt by the end of 2023 with the possibility of a one-year extension. So it's definitely a free resource. And if you take it to other costs now, I think it'll be a crime and irresponsible act of us national MPs. Please put to the vote. And I'm asking the committee to answer when and how we're going to go back to either 9006, or your initiative to save and 30,000 dollars, and direct all reserves to the Ministry of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u66	Nina Petrovna, I'm sorry, I'm a little distracted. Two amendments, you said. The numbers, tell me again.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u67	403 and 614.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u68	Then, with your permission, I will now give the floor to the committee head, and then I will put these two amendments to the vote. Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u69	Thank you very much. Nina Petrovna Jujanina raised a really, really important question: expenses for defense. We understand today, and the government of Ukraine understands that defence spending should be increased. And by the end of March, the government will have a government bill to review the Supreme Council on increasing defence spending, and we will be able to look at it with you and discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you've got it. 403 revision of the authorship of Jujanina, the committee rejected it, a clear explanation. Nina Petrovna asks her to take her into account. I'll bet you 403 adjustments. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:57:38]] For-97 The decision is not taken. The next amendment to the 614th by the author of Jujanina. The same situation, Rocsolán Andriyevn's position explained. But I'm putting 614 amendments on the table. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:58:10]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Thank you, colleagues. Who's next from "European Solidarity"? Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u71	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, I have five amendments. I'd like to put it, but given the reality and focus on the main, I'm going to ask for two minutes -- a performance, and then I'm going to ask for two credits, namely, 349th and 372th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u72	Okay. Please give us time to speak, and then we'll put them in. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u73	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that a year ago not only did a full-scale invasion begin. I also want to remind you that during the first weeks of this invasion, when the enemy fought against the capital, the Ukrainian Parliament demonstrated very fruitful cooperation and interaction. I want to remind you how at the time, despite the fact that the enemy was actually not just at the gate, but he was trying to knock out these gates, he was able to find compromises, he was able to find decisions that work to this day, and in other parliaments are setting an example. So I would very much like to ask my colleagues to return to this spirit of cooperation. I thank the honourable Lord the Head for his willingness to discuss and resolve the issue of payment to the military, and I also support my colleague Nina Petrovna Jujanina so that this issue can be asked more quickly, so that they can gather more quickly and solve the problem in essence. Because the military must now get the maximum security. And here, colleagues, in my speech, I'd like to pay attention to two more important things. First, with regard to sources of filling, because we all have to understand clearly the priorities as we understood them a year ago, yes, colleagues, as we did in February and March last year, we have to understand now that the most important thing is military. And the second part is what I actually want to ask the hall to support. This is the return of the subject to the Ukrainian Parliament, this is the removal of the unconstitutional powers of the Cabinet of Ministers to their discretion to decide on budget issues, to create budgetary programmes, and to even determine questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 349 amendments made by Pauline’s national deputy and colleagues She's been rejected by the committee. He asks for it to be taken into account. I'm betting on 349 adjustments. Please vote. [[12:01:20]] For-94 The decision is not taken. And the following amendment is made by the 372 people's deputy Pauline. The same situation, the committee rejected it, but the national MP is asking for confirmation. I'll bet 372 a confirmation amendment. Please vote. [[12:01:49]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Thank you, colleagues. Who's next? Ariev, right, do I see it right? Please, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u75	Amendment 361. Dear colleagues, you won't, especially for the most part, deny that President Zelensky says everything you need to do is to win? And you're saying what it takes to win. What is needed today? It's buying, repairing, modernizing weapons, military technology, equipment, equipment, finally buying drones, quadrocopters, artillery shells, tank munitions, and grenades for grenade launchers. And let's actually go from words to things, allocate 51 billion dollars and transfer them to these purchases. I am very much asking you to support this, because then your actions will not go away with your words and the promises of President Zelensky. And if not, we'll see what's on the screen now. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, 361 Ariev’s amendment Will you comment? Please. Please comment, Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u77	We agree that there is a need to increase the costs of defense, including the purchase of technology. The problem specifically with this formulation and this readjustment is that Article 24, paragraphs 1 and 2, is prime. 2 The budget code provides 43 billion revenue. We can't allocate 51 billion out of 43.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 361 Ariev’s amendment She was rejected by the committee. You heard the argument, but he's making an adjustment. I'll bet you 361 adjustments. Please vote. [[12:04:08]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Yes, Ariev is all. Please, Hotcharyenko. Pottery and then I don't see who. Princess, I see. Please, Hotcharenko first, Alexei Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u79	Dear Mr. Head, I have a low right, but I suggest you do it this way. Please give me three minutes to make a statement and I'll put one in the balance. Amendment number 477.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u80	Please, Alexeiovich. Give me 3 minutes and 477.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear friends, today is really February 366. In fact, it's, well, an angry moon that's been going on for a year, and we don't know how long it's going to last. But it's up to you and me to have 400, 500, 600 in this February day. That depends on us being with you. I want to remind you all of us, like a year and a half ago, here in the session room, I and my colleagues and I were doing our own thing by offering applications to the State Budget for the year 2022. And he said, let's add money to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, to the border guards, to the National Guard, because this is the guarantee of our lives. The roads, everything else, it's fine, it's cool, but it's not gonna happen if the enemy enters our territory and Russian tanks take the new roads. Sadly, this is how it happened. And let's go. And then we disobeyed, and we didn't give our army any money when they were needed. It's a question of history. But let's do some lessons, let's draw conclusions from what happened then. Let's set a clear, clear priority today for every citizen of Ukraine – the U.S.S.A. Period. Everything else is good. But our one priority is the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which today defend each and every one of us with you who hold the sky above us today. So let's raise the question of the return of money to the military. I don't think I'm the only one, you're all getting calls from a terrorist, a U.S.S.O., a Nazi guard, people who say they're cutting our payouts. That's not right. These people have to get a decent salary. They should not be reduced in money. Friends, please let's solve this. Next. Tell me, why do anti-drone guns buy Ukrainian volunteers? Only Honcharenko's centers bought 15 anti-drone guns, just us. How much more did the other volunteers buy? Why doesn't the state buy it? I offered 477 specific sources where to get grants for business creation. Guys, what grants are there to make a business? Let's give it to the U.S.S. The formation of the statutory capital of the Fund for Partial Guarantee of Loans in Agriculture But let's give it all to the U.S.S.A. And there's only going to be over 1.5 billion dollars on these articles. We buy drones, buy anti-drone guns. It's not just about volunteers, it's about the state. Friends, I ask you to support the allocation of these funds, help our soldiers defeat the enemy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u82	Are you going to respond? Rocksolana, please. Same thing, please, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I just want to repeat that by the end of March a bill will be passed. There's a government bill, and I think there's an increase in defense spending in this room. So we're now proposing not to make a point of change, but to vote on a comprehensive bill that will take into account the increase in expenditure on all programs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, the 477 revision of the potterenko. She's been rejected by the committee. The potter asks for it to be taken into account. I'll bet you 477 adjustments. Please vote. [[12:08:43]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Please, Princess. Dear colleagues, please step away so I can see Mr. Princely.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u85	Colleagues, step away, please. Please. Look, I have 20 rights, I ask four minutes and I'll put one to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u86	Please, Mr. Mikolo, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u87	So, respectable colleagues, a group of 674-694 rights, they all refer to the financing of the so-called teletraphone. The amendments include a reduction in spending on the general fund under the budget programme for the production and broadcasting of programs for government needs by 1.67 billion dollars. Look, when the war started, the marathon made sense, because, first of all, some people were convinced that we wouldn't have any wars and we had to mobilize them. But most of all, TV companies, many journalists, couldn't get to work, there were threats, people were evacuated, they left Kiev. Everyone's back and working in a perfectly normal way today, but we're funding a group of oligarchic channels from the state budget to get them to engage in propaganda. Again, the value of propaganda today is not what it used to be, because all people are used to using the Internet, getting information from different sources. The situation has changed dramatically. Let's give this money to the Ukrainian soldiers that we take from them to pass it on again to the oligarchs. In the face of a severe economic crisis, the allocation of billions of taxpayers' money, including an international company for the pyar of power, is actually a crime against the lives of these people. Let me remind you that all this money is being distributed in a very transparent way, and no one's running tenders in the media. The media, therefore, participates in what are called oligarchics or those who were close to the former coworker of Mr. Cyril Timoshenko’s office. And this money goes to firms close to the former colleagues of the office, and we take it out of the pocket of a Ukrainian soldier. When the Armed Forces are gathering donuts around the world, they're organizing crowdband platforms, there's a lot of volunteers here, we're taking government money to give the oligarchs to propaganda that no one needs at all. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support my amendments, there are twenty of them, and I'm going to put one to the vote, because all of these amendments are similar. This is a 674 amendment. And ask for a reduction in consumption costs under the budget programme "Production and broadcast of television programmes for public purposes" by 1 billion 666 million 434 thousand, bringing them to actual figures in 2022. Because we continue to create crime, once again, we give billions just to the oligarchs to produce programs that are largely produced by other channels without this support. We don't support journalists in this way, they work in their peaceful normal TV studios. We limit freedom of speech, we do not fight in this way on the information front, but we stop the development of commercial channels. Because even if these TV commercial channels were able to restore full normal speech, and they could, there would be more information about Ukraine. But we're artificially holding back information about the country. Why? Because we think that by covering up for war, we can use it for political purposes, restricting everyone’s speech without shutting down television channels and supporting corruption. Yesterday, more corruption was allowed in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, which commercial firms are likely to produce. Now, almost 2 billion instead of giving to a Ukrainian soldier, we take it out of his pocket, give it to the oligarchs for cheap propaganda, restricting the rights of journalists. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support my 674 and request a comment from a committee representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u88	I'm sorry, Mr. Mikolo, what was the number of the amendment you insisted on because I was a little distracted here? Please turn on the Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u89	One 674th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u90	Thank you. 674, I'll look at it now. 674th. Dear colleagues, 674 amendments to the authorship. Comment please, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the 674 is rejected, as are many such amendments, because the Committee on Budgets does not carry out an information policy. If you take 1.7 billion out of a program that finances the creation of a national marathon, it'll just cease to exist. Such a decision should be made by those responsible for information policy in the state, not by a budget committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 674 amendments to the People's Deputy of Knieżicky, she's been rejected by the committee, you've heard the arguments of the parties. Please vote. [[12:14:25]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Sophia Fedina, please. Which one do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u93	I have two amendments to 523 and 524, each of which will be separate and will be taken into account. 523. On the increase in expenditures under Development, Purchase, Modernization and Repair of Weapons, Military Equipment, Tools and Equipment by 50 billion dollars for the purchase of artillery shells, tank munitions and grenades for grenade launchers. The reporter here beautifully stated that at the end of March we would have a new bill and separate funds. But the reporter doesn't understand at all that the lack of ammunition in the battlefield is not enough, and they are lost every day dozens of Ukrainian soldiers' lives. And while you pee here, we'll be burying more and more military personnel because they don't have enough ammunition. So we demand and request 523 permits to account for 50 billion ammunition for our army.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, 523 amendments to the authorship of the Fedina. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:16:03]] For 115 The decision is not taken. Next 524. Are you going to report it, or are we going to put it right now? Please, Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u95	524 applies to the allocation of nearly 4 billion dollars for the acquisition of unmanned aircraft. And again, I realize that our committee is completely useless to the lives of our soldiers. In March, we'll have an opportunity to look at these questions, on loan, to add something else. But now we have this reserve fund, and we can buy drones for our army. Because most people in this room, as I understand it as reporting lady, don't understand that drones are the lives of our military personnel. Instead of living alone, one drone can save the whole mouth. And if you're not giving up 4 billion dollars to buy extra drone equipment right now, you're all personally responsible for the fact that our military personnel are now continuing to die in front because you're not giving money to buy the necessary equipment. I see cynical views, but you'll pay for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u96	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u97	Mrs. Sofia, I'm asking you to stop manipulating me. During this month, 10 billion dollars were allocated from the reserve fund for the purchase of drones. Please note, though, that the Ministry of Defense and the State Department, which is involved in the purchase of drones, also has limited capacity to purchase them. So by the end of March, when they buy 10 billion, then we'll have 30 more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u98	I'll bet 524 Fedina's amendment. She's been rejected by the committee. You've heard the side arguments. Please vote. [[12:18:20]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, who else? "European Solidarity" ended, yes. Then there will be adjustments only for confirmation. Fatherland, please. I write that Alexei Yuriovich Kucherenko instead of amendments 4, 6, 26, 35, 58, 295, 418 - 3 minutes. Isn't that right, Alexy Yuriovich? Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u99	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland faction, head of the Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Energy Security. In this context, I would like to draw attention to my speech and to you, Mrs. Podlas, as the head of the committee and the honourable head of the Committee of Energy and other committees. I'm drawing your attention to a very large cataclysm that is already affecting us in the relationship between businesses, local budgets and the heat utility companies that are heating up two thirds of our population today, and NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. A week ago, on the committee, we had the head, the new head of the NAC "Naftogazu" Mr. Chernisz. Think about it, 80 billion dollars of debt today from TKE before NAC Naftogaz. This is a real threat to national security, a real threat to Ukraine's budget and local budgets. And I'm drawing your attention to two reasons. The first is the lack of regulation of tariff policy and the complete absurdity of which, unfortunately, the previous authorities and previous governments have brought about, and your authority has not rectified anything, only deepens this situation. The second is the failure by the State to meet its obligations to local budgets to close the differences in tariffs that my colleague, Mr. Pivovarov, has been talking about. We've put in some paperwork with our group, some remedies that would now address this situation, which are very much required and requested city measures for local self-governance, a thermal utility. Thank you, Mrs. Roxolano, for the constructive position. Thank you to the head of our committee, Gerus, and to all the deputies who have supported this. We really offered the government a place to find a way out and give the right bill. But I mean, the problem is very serious, and unfortunately, I don't see in the government any experts who can solve this problem, so I'm addressing you. First of all, thank you to all the deputies, thank you to my colleague Krulke, thank you to the Association of Cities of Ukraine, to the thermal utility companies for supporting us. Secondly, if we don't settle this issue now, NAK Naftogaz will become a real bankruptcy under the government's leadership and enters the default, so it will be with the thermal utility companies and the local budgets. So I'm warning you in a good way: Fatherland is going to monitor this situation very carefully, it's going to help us solve this very painful issue of Ukraine's energy security once and for all. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you, energy! Hail the Force of Defense! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's still the Voice faction and I think that's it. Is there anyone else? And Dubinsky will still be, right? The Voice faction is only Iron. It has one amendment. Come on, Dubinsky is his amendment, then the Ironman, and then we're going to make the amendments for confirmation, and then we're going to vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Please, Alexander Dubinsky, call the amendment number and then report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I have, if I may, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have three amendments to the budget, the budget code, I ask for two minutes to bring them in, and then we put them all together.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u102	Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, it's 298, 299 and 300. So it turns out that this Supreme Council completely disrespects itself, and that's why she handed it all over to the Cabinet of Ministers. We're all assigned to the Cabinet of Ministers, all consents are made by the Cabinet of Ministers. And the size of government debt, the marginal size of government debt, is also defined by the Cabinet of Ministers, although it has to be determined and agreed with Parliament and the Committee of Budgets. I don't know why you, Rocksolana, don't do this. I suggest you do this first and restore the subject and the budget committee, and the Parliament in terms of the Kabmin and the budget. So I'm offering my colleagues 298, 299 and 300 adjustments so that the marginal amount of government debt would be accepted, accepted and the changes agreed with the budget committee. By the end of 2023, the national debt limit is 6.4 trillion dollars. That's 102.3 percent of GDP. I propose that any decision of the Cabinet of Ministers and of the Minfin, which may lead to a correction of the marginal amount of government debt, be agreed with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters. This also applies to the issue of domestic government bonds (cases 298 and 299), as well as to the enforcement of state-owned rights. Let me explain why this is important. Because these three redundancies and the marginal size of government debt are the size of the debt that rests on every Ukrainian citizen. And the decisions of Kabmin rely on these debts on every citizen to carry out the demands of the Kabmin and the authorities and the ruling party. So, colleagues, take it out, settle the matter in Parliament. Once again: 288, 299 and 300. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u104	Thank you, Alexander Anatolyovich. Then we go to a turn vote for these amendments. 298 amendments to Dubinsky's authorship. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote, please. [[12:25:02]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 299 by Dubinsky. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[12:25:25]] For-82 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment in this block is 300 by Dubinsky. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[12:25:48]] Z-85 Alexander Anatolyevich, what else do you have? Two more, yes, do you have any repairs? Please turn on Dubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, there are other issues to be solved. Yesterday, you passed Bill 7,198 on compensation for the value of the destroyed Russian invasion of Ukrainian citizens' homes. But there's a big problem that's not solved in this law, it's the ratio of damage to value. That is, the real damage that Ukrainian citizens have suffered as a result of racist aggression. What am I offering? I propose that the state budget use the two funds. It is a fund to eliminate the effects of armed aggression on the implementation of measures to examine damaged buildings and citizens' apartments and evaluate damaged or damaged property, as well as the cost of a special government budget fund, and to target them for the same purposes. This will allow the damage to be incurred and compensated to the citizens, because no one is setting up these damages right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u106	Alexander Anatolyevich, the only one you didn't tell me is what number the amendment was. Turn it on, please. What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u107	This is the number of amendment 316 and 368. I asked for two minutes, you gave me only one, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u108	No, because you said you had two amendments, so I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u109	Two corrections and two minutes. I'll be done in no time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u110	Oh, come on, give me another minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u111	Just to make it clear to my colleagues that without an expert analysis of the damage done in the destruction or damage of housing to be calculated for any fair compensation, it would be some virtual figure that would be issued in a digital certificate that could be obtained in five years, I remind you, five years ago the dollar was costing 50 percent less, and the cost of all materials in Ukraine is somehow related to foreign currencies. So if you don't have a valuable damage assessment now, no one will get compensation. So I ask that these rights be supported for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens and that they receive fair compensation for the loss of housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u112	Thank you, colleagues. And so, two amendments: 316, 368, we vote in turn. 316th Dubinsky authorship. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[12:28:26]] For-94 The decision is not taken. And 368 of Dubinsky's. She's been rejected by the committee. The author insists on taking her into account. I'll bet you 368. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:28:52]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, who else will make their adjustments? "The Voice," I understand, Ironman. Two minutes and one correction you're going to take into account. Please be prepared, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I have our glorious soldier Roman Lozinski in front of me. Roman Costenko, a colleague of ours, has already gone to Hersonian to protect us, too. I request this amendment to vote for them. In 2023 we have a legislative limit that suddenly in an emergency, if we don't have enough money for military needs, for an army, we won't be able to get them out of this fund quickly. This amendment makes it possible in exceptional cases, for God's sake, that they never come, and yet use part of it, including for the army, for the defense and for the protection of our state. Today there was a lot of talk about the need for money for the army. I think this proposal is a compromise, one supported by the Ministry of Finance, and I hope it will be supported by a committee. So I'm going to ask the reporter to give her a word so she can comment. But once again, let me explain why this is being done. She's not populist. All of a sudden, if we don't have enough money, and unfortunately we have to prepare for different scenarios, the Ministry of Finance will be able to take some of that money from the liquidation fund. Unfortunately, in a year we no longer have money in government banks, in state-owned dividends, and even in advance. So it's one of the few sources where you can hide it, it's the Ministry of Defense. That's why it's supporting the Ministry of Finance, and that's why I'm asking you to support this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u114	Committee position. Turn it on, please. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I don't think the author has said here that this decision of the Cabinet will be in line with the budget committee, like everyone else has allocated the funds from the liquidation fund. This is provided for in article 29 of the State budget. Unfortunately, the committee rejected this amendment, but generally what the author says is logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 318 iron repairs. She's been rejected by the committee, but you've heard the basis and the committee and the author. And that's why I'm putting 318 amendments into accounting. I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:32:09]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, will someone else be making adjustments? No, it's not. We've still got confirmations, right? I've made some changes, haven't I? Dmitry Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u117	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues! Ruslan Alexiyovich, if I can start talking first, run time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u118	Yes, please. Just call the amendment numbers right away. Please, first.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, number 704. You and I are now seeing a reduction in salaries for our military personnel on the front. For objective reasons, it is difficult to budget today — there is no money. But in this bill, money was found, but not for the army. The bill found money to finance the National Broadcasting Commission. Can you please tell me there's nowhere to put millions of dollars today? Raise the wages of the NSA? Maybe we're still spending money where we don't need to go, and we're sending money where we need to go to the army, we're protecting you, we're protecting our defenders with you, and we're helping them. Once in Kiev, tens of people without an extra million will live. Therefore, honourable colleagues, against the backdrop of the government’s deficit, I propose not to support the bill 704. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u120	Committee position. Roxanne Andriyovn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, on the issue of the allocation of funds to the National Council of Television and Radio Broadcasting and in general the issue of this National Council in the State Budget Act, we have come to the conclusion of the Committee on European Integration, which says that the implementation of the Pro Media Act is properly one of the conditions for our application and our future membership in the EU. Thus, the budget committee, taking into account all the risks, took into account the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 704 revisions of Kravchuk Eugenia She was taken into account by the committee. At the same time, the people’s deputy, Razumkov, puts this decision on record. Dear colleagues, 704 revisions for confirmation. Please vote. [[12:34:54]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Correction not counted. What else will be the correction? Who else? Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u123	348, Ruslan Alexiyovich. Dear colleagues, these changes to the state budget include the removal of the Supreme Council's powers of borrowing into the state budget. What does Kabin want to do? To stop the Council, to engage and spend the money in mysterious ways. What did the Council not vote on, which was aimed at helping people, the security and defence sectors, helping displaced persons, paying pensions or social benefits? Nothing, all the factions have always supported people. If this involves money and we don't understand where they're going, we're going to get eggs not just 17 but 170. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing everyone and I'm asking you not to support this exercise.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u124	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this amendment rephrases the first paragraph of this article, which does not refer to ratification at all in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 348 revisions of the authorship of The Roxolana Andrivan. She's listed as a committee, but she's looking at confirmation. 348 amendments, please vote. [[12:36:41]] For 205 The decision is not taken. What's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u127	Next item 366. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, this amendment speaks of the following. We talk a lot about our European integration with you and our open, honest relations with our European partners. So the changes to the law by this law allow the funds that we have involved in the quality of the loans, today by the Supreme Council, again by the Supreme Council Hall, to direct where the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is going. Believe me, I can speak for myself and, I'm sure of it, I can speak for the entire hall and for the presidency and for all the national MPs who care about our country with you. What, if this is aimed at the right things, we will vote for it, and if it goes back to funding the incomprehensible things or corruption schemes, the Ukrainian Parliament will not support it. So let's leave this opportunity to control the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u128	Committee position. Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna. Number? This is your 366th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u129	Excuse me, fellow officers. 366 amendment is a technical amendment that doesn't essentially change anything but just sort of sort the direction of using the loan in a different order. We can beat her up, but it won't change anything in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u130	Well, you counted it, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u131	Yes, we counted it, it improves the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, 366 revisions of the authorship of The Roxolana Andrivan. It's taken into account by the committee, the arguments of the sides you've heard. It's about confirmation. Please vote, 366 amendments. [[12:38:47]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, please, Dmitri Alexandrovich. Everything? Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of this. Oh, I'm sorry, God, Nina Petrovna, knicksens to you. Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. How could I forget?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, 311 amendments. I spoke to Mrs. Roxolana before this, before her performance, the presentation was more faithful. The point is, once again, they've prepared the table incomprehensiblely, the amendments that were just not supported, they're standing in the wrong place and they're not talking about it, and the law is already breaking, it's obvious. Mrs. Roxolano, pay attention. And the fact that you took advantage of the article 116 again and pushed a bunch of different extras. This applies to 311 revisions. Colleagues, they're changing the direction of using the Fund to eliminate the consequences of armed aggression. We've just talked about how to spend it and how to make use of it in the Armed Forces, and you see, you remember our discussion about how we were trying to channel the funds to fix the water supply, water supply, heat production, heat supply, and electricity?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u134	Nina Petrovna, the number of the amendment, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u135	311.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u136	311. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u137	311 readjustment included. This is an amendment by Ms. Helen Schuljak, who adds new direction to the fund, to the use of the liquidation fund in accordance with Bill 7198, which we supported in this room yesterday. That is, it allows the Fund to use the cost of liquidation to build housing that people have lost through Russian aggression and to compensate in cash if their housing has been damaged and lost. Please support this amendment, it is important for the implementation of Bill 7198.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, 311 amendments, are included in part. Nina Petrovna asks for confirmation of the committee’s decision. The committee says that it is very important for this bill to exist, which is why this decision has been made. I'm proposing a 311 revision to a partial committee for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:41:56]] For 238. Decision taken. All right, colleagues? Nina Petrovna, how much longer do you have, please? Turn on Nina Petrovney.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u139	Five amendments are in order. Guys, would you mind, please, what's going on in the hall right now? I understand there's not much you want to hear. Amendment 362 is now in effect. This is the new article 34, which is added to Ukraine’s budget. And here again, our role is ruined because decisions will be made by the Cabinet of Ministers. Because here, in the use of the fund’s 2022 surpluses, new constructions, including road infrastructures, and water supplies, for which we fought here once before and the restoration of energy infrastructure, have been eliminated in the previous amendment. Make yourself at home, please. 362 revisions. Remove words.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u140	I heard 362. Roxanne Andriyovn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u141	All right, guys, let's do it again. This standard is in the first reading. 362 amendment is a technical legal clarification for the implementation of GNEU's observations. We can beat it, but nothing's gonna change.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u142	Anyway, the committee counted, right? Dear colleagues, 362 revisions of Roxolana Andriyvni. The committee counted it. Nina Petrovna is asking the committee to make this decision for confirmation. I'll put a 362 amendment on confirmation. [[12:43:55]] For 251 Decision taken. Nina Petrovna, you have three more amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u143	373rd. Thank you, colleagues, for having such an active share. In fact, the previous amendment is a new article that was added to the government budget in the first reading. But in the first reading, we should not have missed those words "by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers." I'm right about that, and you don't want to support it. Amendment 373 is further amended. It applies again to allow the Ministry of Finance as an exception to the provisions of the Budget Code, i.e. to postpone payments on guarantees, on loans that have been taken not only by state enterprises, but also by private structures without time limits, amounts and so on. You're taking extra pressure on the budget without realizing what will happen to us, with our troops going to be financing it, and you're going to be making changes to the increase in the budget deficit, now using it as a downturn.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u144	Nina Petrovna, 373, do I understand? 373rd Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u145	The amendment is taken into account because, before the first reading, we were given comments by both the GNEU and the fact that the text of the law should clearly make it clear that only state budget subcredits can be suspended for other subjects: local governments, utilities, state enterprises and all possible lenders – only from the state budget. We cannot interfere with the budgets of local communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, 373 Amendments of the Roxolana Andriyovna It's counted by the committee. She asks for such a decision to be made by the committee for confirmation. I'll bet you 373 amendments. Please vote. [[12:46:17]] For 258. Decision taken. Nina Petrovna, which is the next amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u147	378th. I, my colleagues, am making amendments, not for you to crash, but for you to understand that when you voted in the first reading of this bill, you've already done a lot of problems for the state budget. So the 378 amendment is just a new amendment to the use of 20 billion dollars from the road fund for guarantees in the grain corridor. But it's written so wrong, without specific definitions, from which road fund programs. In addition, this new program will one day reopen the Cabinet of Ministers. This was not in the first reading. I ask you to focus and understand, if it takes 20 billion to cover the damage or to provide guarantees, you can find the funds once all the details are found. And that's just going nowhere: instead of an army, they just keep the money for once.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u148	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u149	This amendment is taken into account because we now understand all the details of this proposal in the budget committee. We realize that in a year, 16 million tons of agricultural production was exported from Odessa ports in a grain corridor. In order not to lose this amount of agricultural exports, we offer guarantees for shipowners who walk inland and from the Odessa ports in the grain corridor, compensation. a guarantee of compensation. This is important because if the Russian Federation starts sabotaging this deal, we have the risk of falling agricultural exports, depending on the lack of access to the state budget and the loss of jobs. We cannot allow this as a parliament, so please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 378 revisions to the authorship of Arahamaiah David Georgiyovich It's taken into account by the committee in the detailed edition. Nina Petrovna puts the committee’s decision on record. So, your honorary colleagues, please, I'm putting 378 amendments to that edition, as clarified by the committee, as it was, on confirmation. Please vote. [[12:49:09]] For 268. Decision taken. The amendment remains included in the detailed text as accepted by the committee. Nina Petrovna, final yours, if I'm not mistaken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u151	Yes. Dear colleagues, I understand your love for Mr. David Arachamiya, literally all factions, but to take away the "at one time" instead of now funding the Armed Forces, I think it's actually cynicism that I didn't expect from you. Final amendment, 414. Mrs. Roxolana, take care of her yourself. This is to introduce the necessary technical regulations to bring them into line with the requirements of the legislative technique. If they're within the law, you'll do it anyway. And if you return the broken amendments to the law now, that's criminal responsibility. Please do not support the 414 amendment. They don't play with such proposals for the first time. Do everything legally and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u152	What is the position of the 414 amendment committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u153	The committee's got it covered, but what Nina Petrovna says makes sense. So I'm going to ask you to identify your colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u154	So Nina Petrovna's proposal makes sense. Dear colleagues, the 414 Amendment of Podlasa is included. The Jujanina makes such an amendment for confirmation. The chairman of the committee says that this position makes sense to Mrs. So I'm betting on confirmation of 414 amendments. Please vote. [[12:50:56]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Thus, the amendment is considered rejected. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023. Project registration number 8399. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:51:54]] For 272 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Dear friends, I have a letter signed by all the heads of factions to consider today the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of National Opposition on Improving the Principles of the Organization and Conducting the Resistance (registration number of Bill 8028). Can we move on to his consideration now, or will we? Let's move on. Is there a need to vote? Let us go to his consideration. So, dear colleagues, I'm proposing a draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Opposition on the Improvement of Principles of the Organization and the Movement of Resistance (Registration No. 8028) to include in the agenda of the daily plenary meeting. Please vote. [[12:53:09]] For 225 The decision is not taken. We didn't include him in today's session. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's keep going, keep going, keep going, keep going, keep going. Show the factions, please. The next bill is Project 6103. This is a draft law amending Chapter VI of the Act on Housing and Utilities. We have an agreement that four minutes is Alexia Yuriovich Kucherenka, and then we move on to the second reading and the whole reading. Yes, dear colleagues? Four minutes, Kucherenko, and then we vote for the law. Please don't go far, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u155	Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland faction, Ukrainian Housing Owners' Association. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on this law. We will certainly help you, and we will put an end to this agony, which is called housing-communal reform and the arrival of an effective owner to manage our housing fund. But we would very much like you to finally look the truth in the eye and realize that this is all nonsense, to the great regret. That in such a context reform will never happen is just a declaration. And so it happened that a lot of our people would want to, maybe we could manage their housing fund, but only on one condition, if we solve the problem of capital repairs of obsolete housing, if we really change legislation and encourage this effective owner and manager. This is not all done, which year in a row comes this agony, which year we continue this fiction about stewards, we continue the terms of the appointment of the competition managers, and it does not happen and it will not happen. I could talk a lot about it, but unfortunately, it just happened that we have a top-notch housing business, kind of like without a mom and no dad. I don't want to criticize my colleagues on the profile committee, I mean, respectable Mrs. Schuljak, but unfortunately, housing policy isn't being given proper attention. It's the same thing, unfortunately, in the department of profile. If you want confirmation, please, the Housing Code, of which the honourable Mr. Head, Mr. Stefanchuk, remember, yes, that he resented that we have the U.S.R. Housing Code. So where is he, the modern Housing Codex, I'm asking you? Where is a project that would have already appeared in the Supreme Council in the 20th year? No, because there's no answer, and you don't want to ask the key questions, what is a housing fund, what is it to do with it, how to make investments there, and who should manage it. So, dear friends, to not waste time, believe me, I know well what I'm saying, believe me, believe me, honestly, to look the truth in the eye, that this reform so-called that was adopted in 2015-2016 by your predecessors, unfortunately, it goes and goes nowhere, and huge debts, debts, depreciation, they accumulate catastrophically, and the exit is not yet visible. We're helping you out, we're supporting the deferral, by the way, with the delay of a year, because it was due to end on May 1, last year, only now we're continuing it. But God is with you, we're saving city heads, we're saving our population, we're saving the organs of local self-government, but it doesn't solve the fundamental issues. Thank you for your attention. I hope you understand what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we can move on to making a decision, right? I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, and let us move on to making a decision. People's deputies, please prepare. Colleagues, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending Chapter VI of the Act on Housing and Utilities (Registration No. 6103). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:58:51]] For 275 For 375. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues. Let's do one more law, and then I'll give it to you. A statement came with a break, but with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to Cosemia’s Anatholia. Andrew Anatolyovich, I'm sorry. We'll be working in three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u157	Good afternoon, colleagues! As of March 3, 2022, I am Deputy Commander of the voluntary formation of the territorial community of Kyiv "Mria" 241 armed forces. I am now addressing the brothers of volunteers, the volunteer leaders who have come out to me, who are constantly communicating with me in Chernigiv, Kiev, Sumskia, Mikolaiyevsky, Odessa, Kharkivsky, with information that most of this Council, except 125 National Deputies of the People, have failed to get into the agenda of Bill No. 8028. Yeah, these projects don't smell like money, guys, so they don't vote for them. This time. The other one. Why is this happening? This is happening in such a way that the dominant factions today, as I've been told, in the very generous Committee on Safety do not vote in favour of this bill and give instructions not to support the Ministry of Defence. Why? Brothers, listen: Because volunteer formations today, if reinforced by changes to the National Resistance Act, pose a threat to the statehood of Ukraine, threaten the authorities in Ukraine that those who lead them, such as Cosemékin and all others, can lead to a coup d’état. Do you hear me, brothers? Can you hear me, Vera Mikhailenko, the head of the VACS that led the VACS today? She's our battalion's fighter. Eugene Crook, who's the first to go, can you hear me? You're in the battalion now, I'm putting you on the sidelines of the fight, and you need to hear it. We're afraid, we don't want to be able to get a little stronger, legalize the cars that drive any numbers today, so that we can transport BK, vending machines, transport, and put in machine guns. Well, that's a shame, you know! When they were brothers, they were all ill with us, you were all Lugansk, Donetsk, Kharkiv, Sumi, Odessa, Mikolai, Chernigs -- all of you were alone, the Armed Forces were still behind. They didn't know what to do. You left, then you didn't ask the question that we're afraid of you, and today we're afraid of volunteer formation. Shame on you all, you see, on those who did not support this project, introduction! Shame on all who today are against volunteerism!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next bill, 4527. We also agreed on four minutes of Alexia Yuriovich Kucherenka’s speech, and then we move on to making a decision. Please, Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u159	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I'll try more quickly. I won't take four minutes. But believe me, as an experienced professional, I want to draw your attention to such fundamental principles as moments and flaws of effective government that we don't have. First. The Fatherland faction will certainly support this right bill, it is absolutely relevant. But I'm drawing your attention to a fundamental moment, maybe for someone, it'll be such an interesting information. What is cogeneration? This is possible at the same time from the same amount of primary fuel: straw, gas, oil, no matter, to produce both heat and electricity at the same time. That's plus 30 percent before the efficient use of primary fuel. This is a doctrinal advantage in building a modern energy system, and Europe has been using a long-standing moment of cogeneration to develop its energy system, both in the local heat economy, for local electricity and in the strategic economy. And the question is. 2023 we have a huge energy problem, with energy security. Why are you and I just now considering this government bill that should work for me in 2014? And because in 2014, the governments of that time knocked down the expert minister, my colleague and comrade Yuri Sold, the last of the energy companies to be the energy minister. After that, lawyers, financiers, economists, and other powerful experts began to enter the energy industry. And as a result, we've been with you for eight years, and it's only now that we're going to adopt an extremely important, extremely effective bill that's only yet to start and when it works, it's at least a few years. So, my friends, let's finally conclude that experts have to manage areas that are life-threatening, which are vital to the state of Ukraine. This is a fundamental moment in government. Notice that, and respectable monocolation along with your government, introductory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, and we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies, please prepare. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Combined Production of Heat and Electricity (Cogeneration) and the Use of Saving Energy Potential) on the Development of Highly Effective Cogeneration (project registration number 4527). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:06:12]] For 273 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a statement has been made from two factions with a replacement for the performance. Julia Volodymyrna, and then we go to the vote on the elimination of disagreements and inaccuracies in the adopted law. Julia Volodymyr, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, this is about Bill 8067, this is essentially about such a shadowy privatization of Energoatom. Dear friends, I just wanted you to think, why are you now from the National Atomic Energy Company Energoat, which is a unitary enterprise, making a stock company. Officially, what they explained was to be more effective in managing. I want to ask, what prevents a good dancer from running a National Atomic Energy Company today? In principle, this is the lowest price in Ukraine and in Europe for nuclear power, this is our national wealth, our national acquisition. And when you vote for this law right now, remember that it's the privatization of cheap electricity in Ukraine, where the government takes away governance in the national interest from our nuclear energy and gives the right to what persons, it's not written about, to do all the politics, including the price, to nuclear power. To say it's mean on a sacral day like today when we're talking about a year of war, behind the back of people who give their lives on the front, to take the cheapest electricity from the people (just in case, on average, 50 percent of the generation) is mean, low. You promised in a referendum that people would ask. Where are the referendums? And if you can't do it, don't touch it during the war. Now let's compare what they're fighting for and who will lead the sale of cheap electricity at European prices. Please take a look at the official data. If you translate the bracelet, the nuclear power plants in France are sold for 18 pounds of kilowatts, and you have 57 copies of kilowatts. So I want to ask you, 32 times the difference, who puts it in their pocket? They're going to be people who have these tens of billions of dollars per year, but people, our industry, our business, our economy, they're not going to get any more power at Ukrainian price, nuclear power. I urge you not to vote for the loss of Ukraine, of Ukrainians, and of the warring, the greatest wealth of Ukraine, of nuclear power. You and I can be rich and have these tens of billions of dollars to develop the economy. Vote against, do not commit crimes against Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next question, this is Bill 8067. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats because we are now voting, not for the bill, but for the removal of the inaccuracies that have emerged as a result of our vote. On February 9, 2023, I was approached by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Energy and Housing Services, with the proposal to eliminate inconsistencies and editorial in the text adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 6, 2023, of the Act on Stock Exchanges of the National Atomic Energy Company Energoat (registration No. 8067). During the preparation of the text of the adopted law for signature, there were several editorial inconsistencies and inconsistencies between its individual positions, which required appropriate changes to article 6, paragraph 5, of the law. The Committee on Energy and Housing Services of the Protocol No. 75 of February 7, 2023, made proposals aimed at eliminating inconsistencies and inconsistencies in the adopted law. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, this proposal is submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration, and the materials have been made available to you. According to part four of article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, there is no discussion. Colleagues, everyone understands, we don't vote in favour of the law, we vote in favour of the law we have already passed. So I ask you to move on to making a decision. I am voting on the proposal initiated by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Energy and Housing Services for the Elimination of Disagreements and Inaccuracies in the text of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholders of the National Atomic Energy Company Energoate (Registration No. 8067). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:11:59]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Out of procedure, let's go, Sergey Volodymyrovich, because we have motive to vote. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u163	Thank you, Mr. Head. You have rightly pointed out that this law on the elimination of disagreements. And let's say, what are the differences? The small letter "t" in the word "community" is replaced by the capital letter "t" in the word "Community." Timoshenko's been telling you all day. All day long, and then the committee head stood on the stand and laughed, told some stories, told what you were talking about. A month later, you came to what was to come. Dear colleagues, when voting for the law, listen to those who are older and wiser. In fact, even a corrupt law can't be drawn up according to the law. And from the point of view of the MP and the male, I would like to ask the head of the committee to stand up and apologize to Julia Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next bill, 8172. We agreed without him. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, you want to apologize. Please, Gerus. Today is a day of reconciliation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u165	Of course, we respect the opposition, its expertise, its experience is rich, and we are always happy to listen to all the lines of opposition. And among the hundreds of rights that we were, we actually went to meet and experimented, and we counted one line. As it turns out, this amendment is so prescribed that it stops the whole bill and makes the whole bill unworkable. So, unfortunately, the adjustments that are, they're more likely to do harm, and they're not doing any good, and we didn't have to take this into account. This is the conclusion that can be drawn about the changes that are being made -- hundreds, thousands, and what good they are in the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, let's move on. Dear colleagues, Dmitri Alexanderovich, what's your procedure? [[B in m in s a l in]] It's written: no discussion. No, I understand that second reading, but I'm told that no one is going to make any amendments. And you were there, as far as I could tell. Okay, 8172. Let's move on to his consideration then. I'm inviting Gerus Andrey. Andrew Mikhailovich, I'd like to invite you here. Your next bill, too. The draft Act on certain issues of the use of vehicles equipped with electric motors and amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the elimination of fuel dependence and the development of electricity infrastructure and electrical means of transport (Registration No. 8172). Please, Brainy wants some kind of correction. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Just say the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u167	Thank you. Amendment number 31. At the meeting, I warned her that there would be a single amendment. Dear colleagues, the law is good, but there is one "but." The bill allows the installation of a charge without agreement with the owner of the land. Well, it could just come out tomorrow on your con. In your territory, someone will charge or place your constituents in the territory. How will you explain that? It's a good law, but this moment needs to be corrected. It is necessary to ensure that the decision to establish is made only in cases where the owner of the land has given such consent. So, your honor, I'm asking you to support number 31 and then the law will be as perfect as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u168	Committee position, Andry Mikhailovich, 31.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u169	Committee position. Not to be taken into account, for in this case it is an exaggeration, let’s say, mildly speaking, what has been said, and it will not be possible to install an electric power station on foreign private property. So in this case, we have some simplification where we expect agreement from local self-government authorities, the principle of silent consent, which works for 45 days. That is, you can give or deny that local authorities can give, or within 45 days, the principle of silent consent arises. That's why the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, 31 amendments to Razumkov’s authorship. She's been rejected by the committee. You've heard the arguments of both sides. I'm putting this amendment, 31st, on the line. Please vote. [[13:17:17]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Let us move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on certain issues of the use of electric vehicles and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to overcome fuel dependence and the development of electricity infrastructure and electrical means of transport (registration No. 8172). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:18:08]] For 259. Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. The law is passed in general. Let's move on. Next bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, by factions. I didn't hear you. I'm sorry. Let's see the factions. Let's move on. The next bill is 7466. I understand there was an agreement: 7,466 with alternatives and 7,468 with an alternative -- one discussion and we're voting on them. Do I get it right? Thus, in accordance with article 28 of the Rules, we combine the discussion of two bills with alternative ones. And I'm going to propose that we look at all these bills in a simplified way. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:19:17]] For 235 Decision taken. Let's go to Bills 7466, 7466-1, 7466-2. We agreed that there would be one discussion on all issues. So I ask you to sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss Bills 7466 with alternatives to it and 7468 with an alternative to it. Please sign up for the discussion: two in, two in the opposite. Please, Arjev Vladimir Igorovic, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u171	We're supposed to have Nina Yuzanin. She's out for a second. Excuse me, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u172	Ice then, please, "Deliverance of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u173	Frost Volodymyr. Dear colleagues, the issue of importing cars from abroad is traditionally given considerable attention in society, discussed both the rules on taxation and clearing of vehicles and different schemes to avoid established rules. The Ukrainian MP's "Deliverance of Ukraine" group is convinced that Ukrainians deserve to have accessible transportation. The form of the calculation of customs payments should be fair and not cause complaints. Moreover, the Cabinet of Ministers initiative will allow millions of Ukrainian citizens to sweep the car in an entirely new format through the Diya. Corruption is overtaken before making changes to the procedure. The digitalization of the import of cars into Ukraine can bring about a real revolution in the field. It will take place according to standards, characteristics that make it impossible to manipulate. The parliamentary group "Delivering Ukraine" supports the bill on the basis of which it should be further developed before the second reading, taking into account the position of domestic builders, autobuilders. At the same time, accessibility and comfort for Ukrainian citizens must come first. Thank you for your attention and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u174	Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the "Voice" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, let me explain what this bill is about. Now, the main dogma in which almost all the goods are scattered is the cost of the goods: the more the car costs, the more money it will pay. And that must be fair. This bill, it changes this dogma for a very separate category, and it's probably unfair on the one hand, and it's revolutionary on the other. He's saying that no matter how much a car is worth, the windshield and the Mercedes IMG are going to be blurry at the same price. It only takes into account the volume, the year of release of the car, and in exceptional cases, the coefficient of 2 is multiplied if it's exclusive, for example, Rolls-Royce. Then everything else is about electronic interaction with customs. We had a long discussion on this bill. On the one hand, of course, customs is our corrupt bottom, Mr. Cherkassky's chief corruption, we can't release the whole state for a month now, but on the other hand, on the other hand, it's not going to make any sense to drive a bull's-eye, because when you drive a hit car, for example, from Korea or the United States, it's going to be worth the same price for blurry as a new car right now. Secondly, we can't verify the authenticity of the documents if there's a base in some countries, otherwise it's going to be a person who's going to give any forgery and he's going to be able to blur the car. So the bill is really so radical, determine how to vote for yourself, but once again, there are certain downsides that we've been told about by many autoowners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u176	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please. And then the Gethmans, Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, the problem is actually much deeper and brighter than you can imagine, because the loss of Minfin's actual status as a single organ in the executive branch of power, which forms tax policy and customs policy, is lost. Bills 7466 and 68 are vividly confirmed because changes to the Tax and Customs Codes are being made without consent and this is not in the knowledge of Minfin. It just seems to me that this inability of power to overcome what's still going on at the customs office, that they're taking this kind of incentive for $300 to $500 in car design for undervalue, you can actually put this end in a different way than what is now proposed. Firstly, this mechanism, which is now proposed, violates key EU Directive No 112 on a single VAT payment system in EU countries and cancels VAT enforcement from the customs value of a car. He's rejecting our country for many, many steps back in our Euro-Integration process. This average room temperature law, it's going to be the basic principle that's laid down in this bill. It was said correctly, "mercedes" and "lexus", "reno" and "deo" would be, if they were the same engine volumes and the year the car was released, they would have the same load on the payment of customs payments. Now, with Mercedes, the payment of customs payments is over 1 million dollars, and the project provides for 320,000 dollars. That's three times less what rich people are paying for. So please consider these arguments and consider whether they are worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u178	Please, the Gethmans Danilo Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, and after that, we move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to ask the deputies to take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, I actually agree with the previous report that the authorities still can't solve the issue of corruption in customs car design, but this is not just a matter of this authority. Thirty years can't solve this. And it's putting it all into smartphones, putting it all into customs and human communication in an electronic way, and it solves it by divisiting. With regard to the contradiction 112 of the EU Directive, there is no EU Directive, because it is a temporary norm that works before we become a member of the EU. And it's really revolutionary. Indeed, this is unusual. In fact, this mechanism, it's a certain experiment that we're conducting at the customs office to stop corruption, the corruption that has unfortunately become an illustration in the tongues that we all have, in fact, fixed. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to a decision-making process, and the discussion on these bills is concluded. I want to remind you that we agreed that we would immediately vote in turn for two of these bills. So please prepare for the vote. Bills are very important, so please let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Taxation of Vehicles Imported into the Customs Territory of Ukraine, in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:28:50]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer then to refer this question to read again. Dear colleagues, I propose that Bill 4466 be sent back to read again. Please. 7466, this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the taxation of vehicles imported into the customs territory of Ukraine. 7466, there's an offer to re-read. I ask you to maintain that position. [[13:29:43]] For 217 Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to forward this bill to the author of the legislative initiative for further development. Dear colleagues, I propose that this Bill 7466 be sent to the author of the legislative initiative for further work. Please support this proposal. [[13:30:27]] For 225 Bills are considered to be rejected, respected colleagues. Okay. Dear colleagues, this is 7466, yes. And let's go through everyone else. Honorary colleagues, 7466-1, are the draft Law amending the Code of Taxation and certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for tax and congregation administration, other compulsory payments, the object of taxation of transport.) I propose to accept as a basis for redrafting the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. Please vote. [[13:31:24]] For 211 The decision is not taken. I'm proposing Bill 7466-1 re-send the first reading. Please vote. [[13:31:49]] For 217 The decision is not taken. I'm proposing to send 7466-1 to the author of the legislative initiative for further development. Please vote. [[13:32:15.]] For the 220. No, well, we don't give up, guys, we still have 7466 with badge 2. I therefore propose a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Taxation of Vehicles Imported into the Customs Territory of Ukraine (7466 with badge 2) to adopt, as a basis for the development of regulations in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules. Please vote. [[13:32:57]] For 211 The decision is not taken. I'm proposing Bill 7466 with badge 2 to re-read. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:33:22]] For 208 The decision is not taken. And the final decision. I'm proposing Bill 7466 with a badge 2 to send the author of the legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. [[13:33:51]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. All Bills 7466 and alternatives thereto are considered to be rejected. Dear colleagues, we have two more bills that we have united: Bill 7468. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on the taxation of means of transport imported into the customs territory of Ukraine. I propose to accept it as a basis for redrafting the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:34:34]] For 206 The decision is not taken. We're not giving up. 7468, I'm proposing a re-reading. People's deputies, please vote. Guys, I have to go through the whole procedure. I'm sorry. [[13:34:58]] For 212 The decision is not taken. My proposal is to send the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. Please vote. [[13:35:21]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. But we have 7468 left with badge 1. Let's go through, then I'll give it to you. Do you want something? You're out of procedure, aren't you? Please, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u181	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, these are interlinked laws. The tax code is the changes failed, without the Customs Code they don't go without each other. So there's no point in looking at and failing these bills right now, because even if they're approved, they won't work to change the Customs Code if all the bills before the Tax Code are broken. So I'm going to take these bills off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u182	Ivan Ivanovich, I'd love to take them off the table, but that's what we need to do before we get into the debate. Once we have considered it, we must make decisions on the bills that we have considered. Because you are not sad, but we have to vote three more times as a minimum. That's why I'm proposing 7468-1, this is a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine (to improve the procedure for the taxation of vehicles imported into customs territory of Ukraine), and I'm proposing that it be accepted as a basis for the development of regulations in accordance with part one of the 116th Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:36:52]] For 211 The decision is not taken. I'm proposing to send Bill 7468-1 to read again. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:37:15]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. And the final vote. I propose to send the subject of the legislative initiative to finalize Bill 7468 with a badge 1. Please vote. [[13:37:39]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Bill 7468 and its alternative are considered to be rejected. Dear colleagues, next bill 8274. We said there'd be two or three revisions from the EC. Can we accept it now, dear colleagues? Let's go now. Thank you. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine on the establishment of temporary features for the determination of the customs value of goods imported outside the boundaries of exports, I apologize, outside the customs territory of Ukraine (registration number of Bill 8274). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:38:44]] For the 250. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Motovlover, please, there I can see.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u183	I'm asking you to change the order of the law and go to Law 8381 now, this is a change to the defense purchases of the Ministry of Defence. It's an important law, we're asking him to adopt it right now, in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal by the Motovilovt people's deputy to change the order of the agenda and to move on to Bill 8381. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Procurement Defence Act to introduce transparency in defence purchases (except for information on the purchase of goods, jobs and defence services, which constitute a state secret) to ensure the protection of public customers from military threats during the period of the legal regime of military status in Ukraine. Do you understand the offer? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:39:59]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this is the second reading. Who will insist on repairs? Nobody. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Defence of Procurement on the implementation of transparency in defence purchases (except for information on the purchase of goods, works and defence services that constitute a public secret) to ensure the protection of public customers from military threats during the legal regime of the state of war in Ukraine (registration number 8381). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:41:00]] For 264 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Yes, I'm handing over Alexander Sergiyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-24-m0.u185	Yes, Your Honor, we have questions concerning the President's referral, so request not to depart, to vote. So we've got it. 21 MPs requested. Dmitry Black's request to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the title "Hero of Ukraine" to the posthumously deceased on December 25, 2022, to members of the Ukrainian diversification and intelligence group Yuri Gorovec, invited "Svetosa", Maxim Mikhailov, invited "Indulgently", Taras Karpuk, invited "Tarasy", Bogdan Liagov, invited "Apollon". In accordance with article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on a proposal for previous support for a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please be supportive. [[13:42:12]] For 251 Decision taken. In accordance with article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. I need 226 votes. Please vote. [[13:42:40]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. The following questions also came. There will be no more votes today. But questions and announcements can be heard. Hence, the request of a group of national deputies (Gerashchenko, Jonah, and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio communication on the use of urgent measures to ensure information security, provide television and radio broadcasting for Ukrainian radio organizations in the Kharkiv region. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the elimination of obstacles to unhindered imports into Ukraine of DJI Mavic 3 drones and their definition of them as not dual-use goods. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the director of the state-owned enterprise Parliamentary Television Council on information on the announcement of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine held between February 24, 2022 and February 10, 2023, in the company's "Parliamentary Television" network on the air of the Joint Telearphone "The One News". Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Jonah, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to ensure information security in the Kharkiv region. Dmitra Razumkova to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the purchase of food services for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Anton Yatzenka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Information on Public Procurement by the Ministry of Defence and Management, which is part of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence’s administration, during the period 2019-2022. Anton Yatzenk to the Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine on the provision of information on the crossing of the state border of Ukraine by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence by Zavejnevich Alexander Mihajlovich during the period from 24.02.2022 to the date of the parliamentary request. July of the Lighthouse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Prosecutor General for the Legality of the Management of the State Enterprise "Clinic Sanatorium "Kurort Burezovski Mineral Waters" of the private shareholders association "Ukrprofzdovnica". Anton Yatzenka to the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for the provision of copies of documents relating to the administration of a total area of 2312 hectares of agricultural land, which is currently in use by the Collective Agricultural Enterprise “Personnel”. Anton Yatzenka to the Head of the State Security Service of Ukraine for the provision of information on persons who have been entered into the Path system since 22.12.2012, on the date of the parliamentary request for the Cherkas region. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for the provision of information and copies of documents on the transfer of computer technology (notebooks) by the Umman City Educational Community of the Umman district of Cherka district. Anton Yatzenka to the head of the Parliamentary Council of the Cherkas region of the People’s Republic of Germany on the provision of information on the number and list of holdings that have been introduced into the State’s electronic system of destruction that have been damaged by the Russian Federation’s military aggression from February 24 to now in the territory of the Palanian united territorial community. Anton Yatzenka, to the temporary duty of the Director of the State Enterprise "Service of Local Roads in the Cherkas region" to provide information and copies of documents relating to the management of the Public Company "Service of Local Roads in the Cherkas region" at the cost of subsidies from the state budget to local budgets for the financing of construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of road roads for the general use of local importance, streets and roads of municipal property in the settlements during 2022. Peter Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to preserve 26 Feldscher and Field Offices, an outpatient general practice of family medicine operating in the area of the Barwinkian territorial community of the Izum district of Kharkiv. Sergey Vlasenka to the Chief of Intelligence of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine for information on the purchase and/or receipt of Pegasus software from third parties. That concludes the questions. We also have two announcements. In accordance with part two of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report discharges from the duties of deputy head of the political party "Serve of the People" of National Deputy Janchenko Galin Igorovna. And according to article 60, prime. I'm reporting on the creation of an interfractional Ukrainian U.P.O.U.U. The heads of this association were elected Ukrainian national deputies: Gorbenko Ruslan Alexanderovich, Kosira Sergija Vijacheslavovich, and Tkachenka Maksim Mikolaiovich. And also, Your Honor, I don't see an announcement about Captain's TSC. I didn't read it yesterday. I have to read it. About the elimination of Igor Kopitin's TSK, please look for him. This is important so that during this time TSC members can move on to another TSC. Is it? I can't see. Thank you. I'm sorry. In accordance with the provisions of part seven of article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, article 88 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and taking into account the appeal of the head of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters relating to the investigation of facts that contributed to the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crime, Kopitin Igor Volodymirovitch, I announce that the powers of the interim follow-up commission have been suspended in connection with the completion of the defined legislative deadline for its activities. Dear colleagues, the list of matters of order is almost complete today. Thank you all for your effective work. I'm calling a recess at our plenary meeting. The time and place of its continuation will be notified to you in advance. For safety reasons, ask not to spread information about its beginning. Together we are the power, we will win together! Glory to Ukraine!
