ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-01-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the ruling we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today we continue our plenary session. I note that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the opening of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the parliamentary tradition continue our session with the execution of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 493rd day of the massive military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. We are grateful to our heroes, to all the Ukrainians who, at the cost of their lives, courageous opposition, are delivering the Fatherland and saving the world from the Racist plague. Let us bow our heads in a moment of silence to the immortal feats of the fallen defenders and protectors of Ukraine, the innocent victims of the aggression of the Russian terrorist state. We share the pain of their loss with our families. We always remember that heroes don't die. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, the Spanish Kingdom delegation, headed by the Spanish Government, Pedro Sanchez Pérez-Castehon, participates in the plenary. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the Honourable Head of Government, allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to express my most sincere gratitude to you and to the Government you have led, to the General Courts of the Kingdom of Spain, to all the people of Spain for the unanimous, consistent and unwavering support of our state in the time of war. Since your visit to Kiev in February of this year, Spain has made an additional huge contribution to strengthening Ukraine’s defence potential. Thank the Kingdom of Spain for condemning Russia’s aggression and continuing to provide military assistance to Ukraine, which is essential for the speediest liberation of occupied territories. Thank you for the support of the Ukrainians and the humanitarian aid provided after the destruction of the Kahov hydroelectric dam by the Russian terrorist state. We highly appreciate your contribution to Ukraine's full support at the diplomatic level, particularly on the Euro-integration path. We are committed to continuing the reforms and active cooperation with the Council of the European Union during its chairmanship of Spain, which begins today. Let us welcome Spain with its headship in the EU. [[Applause]] Including, we will be grateful for the support of all the priority issues for Ukraine to join the European Union. Dear friends, it is symbolic that on this very day, exactly a year ago, a flag of the European Union standing here was set up in the Hall of Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I want to remind you that throughout the history of Ukraine's independence, this was the second time that the flag was raised and installed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The first incident was in 1991, and I showed you, Mr. Prime Minister, the flag of Independence, which is still in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] We therefore very much expect that Spain will further strengthen its leadership position in bringing together its member countries on the path of our nation's accession to the European Union. Ukraine is determined to become a member of the North Atlantic Alliance, particularly the collective security system, is the only powerful tool for us to stop Russian aggression and to prevent its spread to other European states. We therefore call on Spain, as well as other allies, to contribute to the achievement of a consensus on the support of our application to join NATO. Thank you and we are proud to have such reliable friends. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Pedro Sánchez Perez-Castehon, Head of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-01-m0.u2	- Castehon. Thank you. Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Head Stefanchuk, the honourable deputies of the Supreme Council, your Honourable, dear friends! I am very grateful to be here today on this special day for my country. Because today, July 1st, Spain assumes great responsibility and takes the EU Council's headship on a rotating basis for the next six months. And the first thing I'd like to do in such a new quality is to address the people of Ukraine through the Supreme Council. I'd like to tell you what we are and we'll be with you as long as it takes. [[Applause]] I wanted to say that we will support Ukraine no matter what price we have to pay, that we will be with you in achieving your desire to be a free and sovereign country that decides its fate as a member of the European family. So I am here to express the firm and decisive position of Spain and Europe against the illegal, unjustified and unjustifiable Russian aggression in Ukraine. I have the honour to address you in this temple of Ukrainian democracy, my first address took place in February, on the first anniversary of Russian aggression against your sovereignty and territorial integrity, since then much has changed. Today, there is a counterattack against an enemy that shows signs of weakness. We've all seen events last week and they speak for themselves, so if one side shows weakness, it's because it's opposed to the other side that shows the opposite, its determination. And actually that's what I see here and now. I see determination, strength, and courage. I see a country that refuses to submit, that fights for its independence with enormous dignity. I know that the price to be paid is enormous, especially in the form of lost human lives. And none of what I can say here will comfort a family that has lost a daughter, a son, a mother, a father or a husband. Men, women who have given their lives to protect free and democratic Ukraine, but I want to do it from a broad heart and on behalf of Spain, a country that is grieving with you, a country that condemns every Russian attack on Ukrainian civilians, such as the Kramator attack. Victoria Amelina is a Ukrainian writer, and she was also seriously injured there. Now she's fighting for her life. Victoria was close to the frontline, wanted to document the tragedy, wanted to gather memory of dishonor and wickedness, of the lost inheritance, of the broken fates, and of the crimes committed. We need such women as Victoria Amelia to write a story to tell the facts of what they are and to remember those who have suffered this tragedy. Respect, my friends, we do not forget that the European aspirations of the Ukrainian people were one of the triggers that provoked the Russian reaction and as a result of the invasion, it would be fair to honor this desire by giving you the status of candidate to join the European Union, because no one deserves it more than Ukraine. However, I know that this is a difficult process, especially in the face of the ongoing war, because to become a member state, the necessary changes, reforms and contributions are needed. Not long ago, Spain faced this challenge as a candidate country. But let me say that the process of EU membership has given us important lessons. One of them is that reforms are already valuable in themselves, because reforms make your governance and economy better, more modern and more transparent. They strengthen international trust and closeness, attract investment, and eventually give access to our European Union. A union that is more than just the largest internal market in the world. First of all, it's a community of values, human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. Last week, the European Commission commended Ukraine for its progress in implementing the necessary reforms. Since then, I would like to welcome you with progress, especially thanks to the legislative work of this Supreme Council. I urge you not to stop at what you've achieved. It's worth the effort. Hello! And we certainly look forward to the report of the European Commission of Autumn, which will lay the basis for the future. Friends, we want a just and lasting peace in Ukraine. Only Ukraine can determine the conditions and time for peaceful negotiations. Other countries and regions offer peace plans. We highly appreciate their participation, but at the same time we cannot fully accept them. It's an aggressive war, it's an aggression where there's clearly an aggressor and there's clearly a victim. They should not be treated in the same way. Ignoring the rules, it should not be rewarded in any way. That is why we support the formula for the peace of President Zelensky, which corresponds to international law and the UN Statute. Ukraine pays a high price in terms of destruction of cities and infrastructure. So we have to make the country rebuilt, thereby creating conditions for its growth and prosperity, and we have already begun to do so. Today, Spain has decided to allocate 55 million euros, including 51 million euros through the World Bank. 55 million euros, including 51 million euros through the World Bank Group, are to finance small and medium-sized enterprises in Ukraine, as well as 4 million euros through the United Nations Development Programme to provide schools in Ukraine with environmentally sound and sustainable energy systems. Restoration and reconstruction will require time and investment in many sectors. Spain wants to accompany Ukraine in this process. There are some areas, such as railway infrastructure, where our companies own certain know-how that can change the situation for the better. The Spanish Government supports the financing of the necessary investments to adapt and modernize Ukrainian infrastructure and manufacturing. We realize that recovery and prosperity will occur only if real and long - term security is achieved. Friends, I think we can no longer rely on promises made after the cold war. We need to adapt to another security environment where concepts such as peace, sovereignty, or territorial integrity cannot be taken for granted. Because aggression against Ukraine has shown us that we need to protect them, not only by words but also by facts. That is why we need to rethink the security framework to ensure that Ukraine can live without aggression or intimidation. As the President said, we are approaching the NATO summit in Vilnius, which will be a continuation of the commitments we made last year in Madrid. Spain supports the strengthening of Ukraine's political participation through the creation of the Council of Ukraine – NATO, where Ukraine will no longer be an invited party, but a member, a full member. We also advocate increased practical cooperation, continued adaptation of your defence sector to NATO standards. These are major steps forward that will be further discussed during the future NATO summit in Vilnius. Spain will also continue to contribute. We provide additional tanks of Leopard, armoured transporters and field hospitals with the possibility of performing surgical operations. We also continue to work with other countries and continents to explain to them what is really going on in Ukraine and to listen to their concerns, especially those related to food and energy security or danger in this case. Your dignitaries, in February before going to Kiev, someone in Madrid asked me about the state of the Ukrainians and asked me, "Do you think they're scared or are they scared?".. When I returned after the visit, I had a clear answer to that question, and I told them, "They're not afraid. They'll win. Maybe weeks, maybe months, because of tears, blood and sweat, but Ukraine will win this war." [[Applause]] Then they asked me, "Pedro, why?".. And I said, "Because there are two battles: one happens in the field of battle, the other in the heads of people. Because it's a resistance to ideas, and this battle the Ukrainian people have already won." Ukraine chose democracy in spite of those who despise it. Ukraine has chosen openness and freedom in the face of those who fear it. Ukraine has chosen to sit, discuss, and vote, change, and develop against those who believe only in power and obedience. Ukraine has chosen to be independent, free to move, to trade, to invest, to thrive, to have hope in the face of those who still have delusional dreams about the old empires. The Ukrainian people have chosen a European course for themselves. The Ukrainian people are Europeans. [[Applause]] You are not just Europeans because of the geographical principle; you are Europeans because of moral and spiritual obligations. So, dear friends, over the years, I have learned a lot about Ukraine, even some Ukrainian words. For example, I learned that a dream in English meant dream, and in Spanish it was Sueno -- so was the largest plane in the world that was at the airport in Gostomel when it was destroyed by Russian troops in February 2022. The plane brought drugs during the epidemic, brought humanitarian aid during natural disasters. It was a symbol, the pride of Ukraine. They destroyed the symbol, but they couldn't destroy the idea. Recently, I learned that Ukrainian engineers are already working on restoring this heavenly giant. So let me tell you that you're not just restoring the plane, you're reviving the dream. And one day this dream will be cast into heaven again, and from there we will see a new Ukraine born from the ashes of the ruins. That's what you're fighting for. You fight for the peace, security, and prosperity of your children. And every Ukrainian military knows about it. Russian soldiers fight for fear of punishment if they do not fight. They ask themselves every day: What are we doing here? You're grouped, you're right. They even rebel, these Russians, as we saw a few days ago, that's why they can't win, and you can't lose. I came here today to say that Europe is open to those who make choices. The European Union was created to prevent new wars. We decided to gather together, to be unique in diversity, and that made us stronger. Europe with you and you alone with Europe. We are Europe. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-01-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, let us once again thank the Honourable Head of the Government and the Spanish delegation for their participation in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and for Ukraine's undeniable support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-01-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, let us welcome Yuri Yuriovich Aristov and Vladimir Viktorovich Kabachenko to his birthday. [[Applause]] We want strength and strong health, fruitful work, and Ukraine’s rapid victory. Dear colleagues, the order of the day is exhausted. Thank you all for participating in the plenary. We announce a recess in our open plenary session. The time and place of the next extension step will be reported in advance. We thank the Spanish people, welcome the EU Presidency and look forward to the results of this EU presidency for Ukraine. Thank you all. Glory to Ukraine!
