ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, according to the ruling we have adopted, we are continuing our plenary session today on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in terms of the state of war. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present in plenary meetings should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to abide by the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to be responsible for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. In the event of air anxiety, there will be a pause in the plenary session, and we all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme that is located in the workplaces of each of you. Dear colleagues, according to parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin work on the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear colleagues, it is the 622nd day of the full-scale military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. The Russian terrorist state continues to engage in cynical rocket attacks, attacks by drones in our cities and villages, strikes at civilian critical infrastructure objects, kisses at the sight of our cultural heritage. Such crimes do not have an expiration date, and the responsibility for everything committed will inevitably come to pass. By defending our nation, Ukrainian defenders and protectors perform heavy tasks on a daily basis and at the cost of their own lives and health, protecting their home land from the enemy. Let us bow our heads in a moment of silence to the heroes who laid the soul and body for the freedom of Ukraine, and also honor the bright memory of all the peaceful citizens who died as a result of the actions of the Russian aggressor state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague of the Ukrainian national deputy Anastasia Alexiyivna Lashenko (Sheptifrac). Welcome, colleague! We want strong health, fruitful work, and Ukraine’s rapid victory. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, before we begin our consideration of the issues, I propose a signal vote. I would like to remind you, by holding the sensor button, to press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. Please take part in the signal vote. [[12:11:36]] For-164 Not everyone had green buttons. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no factions here. In accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Council, we are continuing our consideration of our bill under registration number 10037: the draft Act amending chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code to ensure the protection of the State and the development of the defence and industrial complex of Ukraine. Please, Yuri Mikhailovich Kusbit, we're waiting for you in the same place. Amendment 862, Arthur Gerasimov. Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Sergiyyovich, I have a request: three minutes of the show, and then I'm all my work, as many of them are there, and I'm not going to pick up right now. Thank you. Please turn on three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u3	Please, 3 minutes, Gerasimov, from the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u4	Honorable national MPs, especially of the vast majority, are respected Ukrainians! We are now in the room looking at a bill that is unfortunately prescribed in such a way that it cannot be explicitly accepted. I ask that you listen carefully and pay attention to these arguments. Should military PFC communities now use more properly, more rationally, more effectively, given Russia's large-scale invasion? Yes, of course it's true, and it has to be done. Unfortunately, though, the bill that is currently being considered in the hall has a very different purpose. This bill was designed to raise money to the center, to Kiev, to take it to the local communities, to significantly reduce decentralization and, unfortunately, to steal an estimated 30 billion dollars. As far as this bill is concerned, why should it not be voted on? First. The characteristics of those communities that are on the front line or on the front lines are not taken into account at all, because it is on the basis of the military PDF that they are now able to restore at least one way after the rocket and artillery shells of the invaders critical infrastructure, even though there is some way to help the people whose houses are destroyed. Majorities of majority, think carefully about whether you want to leave people in communities in frontal, frontal areas without money. The second reason is where the money will be spent. "European solidarity" stresses that today one of the priorities is spending money on building fortifications, building fortifications, not letting the enemy move forward if he's going to increase his momentum. And they have to do that and they have the ability of local communities to do that. And the third reason. In these days, "European Solidarity", our deputies, have overrun many military forces on the front line. Almost all the commanders say it's a diversion, don't take the money to the brigade, because today, to get what they need through local authority, they spend a maximum of weeks, often days, and they'll spend months and years through central authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u5	You're not putting anything, are you? Okay. Yes, 863, Gerasim. 864, Gerasimov. 865, Gerasimov. 866, Gerasimov. 867, Gerasimov. 868, 869, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78. 911, Herotschenko. We already picked it up last time. 912. Dmitri Aleksandrovitch, that's where you're going.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u6	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, please, 912 - 930 correct, this is 15 lines, give me 10 minutes, please, I'll put an extra one on the table. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u7	Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Alexander Sergiyovich, first of all, I would like to thank you that, unlike the Head of the Supreme Council, you have been able to provide a large number of national deputies in the Hall today. Yes, they are missing again, not 226, but still our meetings are approaching constitutional ones gradually. I can see that maybe someday. I'm very glad the MPs found the time and came to work that you and I are not back in the hall where there are only 20 people's deputies, as we worked on Saturday. What's more, unfortunately, there's no Ruslan Stefanchuk today, and I asked him and suggested that we go solely on key issues today, not create a circus on Saturday and work until 11:00. Sadly, that was not the case. This proposal was not heard, and we worked in the same mode that we worked in. I would like to point out in parallel that Bill 10037 is completely infamous, because you want to do two things again: the first is to take money from local government, the second is to use it completely ineffectively. In support of my words, I would like to recall once again the results of the Court of Auditors' work, which directly stated that the loss of the state budget, and in fact the break-up of the state budget by 42 billion, took place in the Ministry of Defence. You don't have that much money, you want to take the money from the local authorities, and you want to take the money from them, too, and you're sorry for the slang, you're gonna tear them apart. We've already asked the D.B.I., the N.A.U.U., to bring an appropriate criminal case regarding the results and conclusions of the Court of Auditors. I don't quite understand why she didn't make such an offer to these institutions, but I'm sure we'll see a transparent, effective and honest investigation of all the corruption facts. And no one will say that there were no eggs of 17, winter jackets that turned out to be old, and so on. At the same time, we know that the deputy minister was on hand yesterday. I hope that this process will be completely transparent, adequate and really punished. Not only the gunmen appointed by the deputy minister but also those who made direct decisions. I was happy to hear the president's speech yesterday, which said that it was not the time to talk about elections today. At last there was the right position from the President's Office. At the same time, I was surprised to learn that we have the head of the Supreme Council, the foreign minister, who is actually working for Russian propaganda. This is actually a direct quote from the President, who pointed out that everyone who talks about elections, and the Head of the Supreme Council, we have asked our international partners to provide information, how, where and when the elections took place during the state of war. And the president made it clear that everyone who thinks about elections is the help of Russia. I think it would be wise to evaluate all the other actions of the high-holders. The day before, the foreign minister says that the Office of the President is constantly dealing with the question of how to conduct elections and whether to conduct them or not. I hope the President has put the right point in this question -- this time. And two would like to understand why, based on the logic of the President, the foreign minister works for the enemy, works for Russian propaganda, works not for the state, as stated by the President, but works for some political interests, or his own, or, I don't know, what powers of influence. In parallel with this colleague, I have proposed, and now I propose that we approach the process effectively. I'm not going to insist on all the paperwork today, because there are no 226 votes in the room today. As promised, unlike the leadership of the Supreme Council, I will not insist on technical remedies. I'm just going to do one right now, this is going to be 531. This amendment will relate to questions as to how many parties represented in the Supreme Council are really concerned about our victory, not in words, but in matters that are willing to help the army. This right here is to put the financing of the parties in 23-24 years to the needs of the security and defence forces. As of today, the 23rd-year budget has almost a billion dollars to fund the parties, 885 million dollars. The financing of the parties for the 24th year is 840 million dollars, in fact another billion dollars for the following year. You talk a lot about how you feel about winning. You tell a lot about how to help the army. You tell a lot that you don't have to prepare for the election. If you are not preparing for an election, give the money in the budget to the security and defence forces. Give the party money to the U.S.S.A. So I ask, unfortunately, there is no one in the Presidium, so please put 531 to the vote. It gives 50 percent of the party's funding to the military's technical security, and 50 percent to pay the salaries, pay the premiums, etc. After that, my respectable colleagues, I turn to all the colleagues who are in the hall, who have the papers, not to take them into account, and to go to the right for confirmation. I hope that Alexander Sergiyovich will not dissolve the hall by working 10 minutes, and we will do as effectively as we did on Saturday. How many hours did it take us to get there? Eight hours? You can do it today. No, not ten, we started at three. So I think that's what we're going to do right now. I hope that Alexander Sergiyovich will have the political will to work as effectively today as on Saturday. And now, Alexander Sergiyovich, I ask you to put 531 to the vote to take funding from the parties, from all political parties (this is almost 2 billion dollars) for the security and defence forces, so they don't tell you that money is not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u9	How about 931, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Because in 531 we voted, it's not yours. Let's do this smart-ass thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u10	1531.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u11	Ah, 1531. Okay. Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich, for your kind words. I would like to point out that this meeting was gathered by the efforts of Ruslan Alexiyovich, too, despite problems of a personal nature. He held the Conciliation Council yesterday and stressed that we should be present, and the heads of the factions of the committees heard it. This is the first time. Second, about the political will for today. You know, we're working until the 23rd, even though I'm the one representing the presidency today, we're going to be doing technical breaks, sorry, well, it's going to be like this, five times. But I think I can handle these breakups in five minutes, so to speak. And let's move on to the vote on the proposal. The National Deputy of Reasons suggests that the number 1531 should be taken into account. Now we're going to look at it to make it yours. The National Deputies of Petrunjak and Razumkov, she was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:26:20]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The factions. Thank you. Next up, Dmitri Alexanderovich, 930 is yours, as I recall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, Alexia. Now, now, Alexei Alexiyovich, we are. We don't miss you, we don't miss you. Yes, please, Alexeiovich Hotcharenko, 913.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u12	Thank you. Thank you. Dear Mrs. Mariana, if I may ask you, thank you very much. Dear friends, important to us today, the discussion continues, and I certainly hope that we will not let anyone down or run, nor let anyone down. I see they finally decided after Saturday. Friends, do you know that we had a meeting of the Supreme Council on Saturday? Maybe not all the colleagues know. There were 17 of us here. Look what you've done. The speaker's already tired, he's gone. God forbid, if he is sick, I wish him good health. And, friends, we have to work, we have to go to work, it's a meeting of the Supreme Council. And people say, and where are the deputies, why they all left the hall, where they were all on Saturday? Friends, this is an important subject and today's law is important, and our conversation at this time in the state is important. And I think we can spend it today. Please don't split up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u13	Thank you, Alexeiyovich. You're correct, I understand, you won't put to the vote. Then we have Dmitri Alexanderovich. Yeah, 925th, Mikisha, we've got separate ones. Please, Dmitri Sergiyovich. Are you? Please, Mikisha, 925.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u14	Alexander Sergiyyovich, I have 925 there, very many lines, 64th, 1065th and there's their 20th. Give me five minutes and I'll take them all off.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u15	It's over, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u16	Yeah, yeah, I've got a 20 there.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u17	Maybe even give you seven minutes. Let's make you develop better practices in Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please, Mikisha, 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u18	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, very nice to work with you. Let me rephrase what this bill 10037 is about. First of all, we're not just taking military PFCs, so-called military PFCs, from communities and transferring them to the state budget, to the central budget, we're also taking the money that the PFCs in the police force, from the state service to the state emergency workers who have spent their entire lives in the relevant communities, paying taxes to their communities, continuing to live there, and we're taking money, taking it to the community. Next. In fact, this bill also takes money from the road fund. I realize that local self - government has already created an image of such a thieving institution, a briber and a thief who must be punished, and a road fund has created the same reputation. But I'm going to remind you that apart from the national roads, which are also there during the construction process, a lot of people have snarled and lost some reputation and not a very good response as to how this was happening. I'll also remind you that the road fund is funding reconstruction and construction of bridges that are now urgently needed, which were blown up at the start of a full-scale invasion, very many emergency bridges, including through Dnipro. across the Dnipro River. You're all on these bridges. You can't make it tomorrow. It's also financed by the road fund, you take it, you want to take the money out of here. That's different. In addition to the fact that local self - government takes military PFCs, the road fund also spends 35 percent of the entire road fund on roads and local values. So it's not just communities, with all due respect, to the Zakarpatsky or the Lviv regions, but also communities that are in the fighting zone, they're resilient, they're near the war zone -- they don't get that kind of money either. They do not get to support these roads in some appropriate way. I'll remind you that there's a lot and a lot of military technicians out there, they're smashing these roads. And primarily for the military, it makes transportation and logistics more difficult. This too should not be forgotten. We should not forget that the road fund also involves road safety arrangements. Do you want to get rid of it, too? That's what you're trying to get out of. I understand that the only way to think about it is if local self-government is a thief, a road fund is a thief. And when people look at it, of course, they go to the rally, they get angry, they get angry, and they're absolutely right and they're doing it legally. They're agitating and protesting in every city, protesting that the funds go somewhere other than the Ukrainian Armed Forces and, in general, the defence sector, I support them. But I want to talk to all these people. Look, you're at a rally right now during a state of war. You were allowed to do that. But I'll remind you that you weren't allowed to do it when the eggs were 17. When all these mini-defence scandals, which are absolutely justified, and the calculus chamber, this proved that all these media scandals were absolutely correct, they weren't invented or sucked out of their fingers, as some have claimed. And then you weren't allowed to hold a rally, and then you were told that the state of war, the meetings, were impossible. You can do that now. Why so? Who has the right to allow you to go out into a state of agitation, then to forbid it, and now to allow it? Why is this happening? Why couldn't you do that now? I would also like to draw your attention once again to the fact that local self-government is currently helping the Armed Forces of Ukraine, but according to the legislation they cannot do that, they cannot do that. They can give a subsidy directly from one treasury account to another treasury account, and here they can buy a pick-up, buy a van, buy a jeep, buy a drone, buy an anti-drunk gun, and then hand it over to the military unit, any unit in the security and defence sector, they can't do that now, according to the legislation. And in the drafts of this bill, we made the right changes to allow local self-government to do so. More than that, there were separate bills, several bills. We brought him to the 9559-d committee to allow local self-government to help materially and to pass it on to the military. And more so that they don't have to be responsible for what they've done, listen to this nonsense. A lot of communities, a lot of communities from February 24, 2022 helped, and now they're going to be punished. A few dozen thieving mayors, yes, they do steal, and the law enforcement authorities have to do them and give a proper assessment, then prove them in court. But the communities in Ukraine are 1, 000, 469, and we can't punish everyone at all, but those who help. Only because of these couple of tens of mayors. I'll remind you that by August 23rd, local self-government has helped in the security and defence sector for more than 60 billion, and that's not what a single marathon is going to tell you, it's not going to be written in telegrams, nobody's going to tell you about it. But to blame local self-government is always. And finally. Military units are very eager to keep military PFCs, for they are the ones who receive this assistance from the communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u19	Thank you, Mr. Dmitri. You're not suggesting anything, are you? What's that? Give it to Mikishi.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u20	I'll tell you what. One to put, 1113, is to leave 64 percent of the PDF in the body, not from the transitional, final positions. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u21	Yes, it's your turn. National MP Mikisha suggests that his number 1113 revision be taken into account. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:36:43]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Yes, Dmitri Alexanderovich, yes, we do. 926, Babenko, Lušnjak, Majestic. Don't insist. Okay. 927, Alekseiv. Don't insist. 931, Dmitri Alexanderovich, then your block goes back to 931.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u22	Alexander Sergiyovich, as you went out, you missed the most interesting. And I suggested that I take all the changes, because you don't have a constitutional majority again, but I suggested to all my colleagues, and I asked you to immediately go to the vote for the confirmation. And I hope that you'll be ready to work until 11 p.m. that we won't turn the Council into a circus and close it 15 minutes after the start, because there are no votes in the hall. I'm sure, and you've confirmed that you have the strength, the inspiration, and we're ready for the five-minute break that you pointed out. Thank you. And I took the papers off, just like I promised on Saturday.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u23	All accounted for? Okay. Thank you. We'll go over the chart to the end, and then we'll see. We don't know who's going to insist, maybe it's Sergey Bunin who showed up, I see, on the abbey, 200 rights. Ella Ripin insists, 942? Mutinee. Don't insist, okay. Alexiyyovich, are you there with the papers? Are you done? Do you still have the potential? I can't see you, I can only see your hand and the piece of the iPad. The iPhone. I can't see you. Oh, road trip, Dmitri, I'd like to ask you to sit down for a moment, because. Alexeiyyyovich, let me find some of your papers so that we can speak substantively, yes? What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u24	..eight o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u25	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Alexander, I have an offer, too. We want everyone rationally. I have 124 rights left.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u27	You're taking an hour, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u28	I'll take 90 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u29	90 minutes? Let's hit Arthur Gerasimov's record.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u30	Yes, I will record Arthur Gerasimov. And then I'm going to put a couple of buttons, and my story is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u31	Alexiyyovich, I agree. I've got a willow if you run out of charge on the iPhone, because that's what we're broadcasting, I get it, that's all. You can turn around, we'll help you. Please, Hotcharenko, 90 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u32	Thank you. Thanks, guys. All right, let's go to the record. 90 minutes on the Supreme Council of Ukraine have never, my friends, been there. The time has come, and it will happen. I'm glad I can count on our presidency. Mr. Kornienko said that if necessary, he would give me a willow, including a willow. And that's really necessary, because, guys, I want to let you know that I'm definitely doing this right now. Just so you know, if you start to break up with your job right now, you'll know that people will see it. Because now it's going into the stream so that people can see how the Supreme Council of Ukraine works. I see my colleagues are waving their hands. You can wave your hand, people can see you, people can see you. It's important that people know how the Supreme Council of Ukraine works. I, by the way, promised people that I would ask their questions to the deputies. Because, you know, you've been hiding out here completely from people. The press is gone, the press is empty, you don't release guests, you just let go. When foreign leaders arrive, we are here as the choir of Faith singing amateur songs to them, yes, and that's it. Everything else is not. Dear Mr. Galuscoe, I have a request for you, you are also great and beautiful, of course, but you are closing, and I would like to see people see because this is important. And so, we're talking to you about an extremely important topic, we're talking to you about the State Budget of Ukraine, because this is a change in the Budget Code, this change in how this budget is going to be formed and how this budget is going to be spent in our state. And what I'm saying is, there's only got to be one priority in the state today, only one. What should the state budget, the budget code, look like? It should look very simple: an army (a dot), a socialist, to survive. (Sniffs) All of it. That's all. That's how we're supposed to form today. Army, Social Services, that's it. No, as we're told, yes, bugs, TV shows and all that. It's just that, you know, it's kind of weird that the President is speaking yesterday, he says there should be no stupidity, there's no army at all, and the colleagues don't seem to hear him here, because on Saturday, aside from our long meeting, there was a meeting of the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And on this budget committee, they returned the money to the show -- 600 million dollars. Now, it's actually a blasphemous term -- it's a program to support cinematography and document war crimes. Friends, What Is the Connection? What is the connection between these two things? What is the connection between documenting war crimes and TV shows and any other nonsense you want to spend money on? Almost 600 million dollars. Friends, these are colossal costs, 600 million dollars, and they have to be spent where they really are needed. Where are they needed? I put this paper on the budget committee to remove 600 million dollars from the series and give 600 million dollars to the army. Remove 2 billion dollars from the national telophone. What's that marathon? Are we going to win with a national telephony? Two billion dollars and give it to the army. Take the money out of the mud and give it to the army. Take the money out of a variety of other fools and give it to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to the National Guard, to the Ukrainian State Border Service, to the BSS, to the State Special Transport Service, to the GUR, to all other departments that are actually defending Ukraine today, not in words. And they're making it real. So take the money out of your mouth, and go where you need to go. Where do you want to go? Besides, friends, we've got to give money to help the child. We have a payday for the birth of a child. at the birth of the child and continue monthly payment until the age of three and a half, 860 dollars. Once again, for a baby for a month! I understand, look, I want to show you right now, my colleagues aren't interested, they're walking again, they're saying something, someone's laughing, someone's laughing, someone's "constant" coming, everything else is happening right now. Friends, this is all very serious, extremely serious, 860 bracelets. How Can You Live as a Child? How can a child raise 860 coins? How? No way. No, it's not possible, but we have these numbers today. Today, we have a disability allowance, a single disabled person, to care for 50 dollars a month. Once again, 50 (five zero), a piece of paper from Gruszewski. Maybe you don't understand, 50. Tell me, what can I do for 50 bucks a month? Well, tell me what. We have a man in the army today, a military man out of state, who gets 700 or 800 bucks a month. Once again, a month, 700 or 800 bucks a month. Tell me, please, how can a man live 700-800 dollars a month? So it's not just a man, it's a soldier who gave it away. Why does a person get out of state? Not because she is guilty, not because she does not want to fight, but because she has lost her health either because of injury or because of injury or because of illness. The man's still out of state, 700 or 800 bucks a month. How Can I Live? How do you live, who's willing to do an experiment on their own and live for 700 bucks a month? And we, thank God, are more or less healthy here, not as many people who are out of state today and how they live and what happens to them. And we don't have this conversation, and this isn't another time, it's not in the budget, it's not in the budget code. A whole bunch of rights that I've been offering, that I've been predicting, that I'll give the army money, that I'll pay, that I'll give the money to the limited, that I'll give you the money. They're unaccounted for, they're no one's interested, nobody wants to hear about it, nobody wants to, you know, close their eyes and everything, and so we're going to pretend it's the right thing to do. No, guys, it shouldn't be, it shouldn't be, and I want to tell you. Increase in social status. So I want people to ask you the question of paying off the disabled first, second group. Now I'm reading to you the questions that people are asking. Dear people's deputies, listen, you may not have seen many people in a long time, so I want to tell you, 2,000, 100 bracelets -- invalids of the first, second group, first, second group, third group -- 2,000, 100 bracelets. If you live on them, tell me. Let's answer the question. I understand that in a country of difficult times, the economy is ruined, the enemy, I understand that we can't give everyone everything, I understand that we can't solve all the questions, but how can there be 860 dollars per child per month and 600 million dollars per show? Well, that's what we find the money for! How could there be 700 bracelets of injured outside the state and 600 million dollars of the show and 2 billion dollars of the national telophone? How could a soldier’s salary be 700 dollars?) and the prosecutor's salary for the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of 140,000 dollars? 140,000 dollars! And the Supreme Court judges have 300,000 dollars. Three hundred thousand dollars! How can that be? Where is justice? I think it's in the country at all. I realize that those who fight corruption, to see a real fight against corruption, have to pay good money because these people can't live for a thousand dollars and fight billions of abuses. That's true. But then, first of all, there has to be a limit. And as such, I propose in the Supreme Council. How many today, how many of the most terrible jobs in the state and most important, what? It's military work at zero. And the military gets zero today, so let's take a full month's allowance, although not everyone gets paid for a full month, they calculate, they throw artillery, rockets, and so on. But let's imagine, 100,000 dollars paid an honest full payment, then plus 20,000 100 dollars is the base wager, plus the benefit and title of another couple thousand dollars depending on it. Let's say it's 125,000 dollars. This is the maximum that a person gets every day, every day, risking his life, every second for the state, for us with you, for the children, for the babies, for the unborn and for the unborn. So let's be honest with you, 125,000 dollars is going to be the limit. 125,000 dollars is the limit. There can be no more pay in the state than a soldier who risks his life every second. That's the maximum. And there can't be more than 125,000 dollars in no one's pocket -- no Ukranafta manager, no judge, no prosecutor, no one else, no President's Office advisor, no one else's. 125,000 bracelets, tops, ceilings. Let's say, let's do this, and people will understand that. But I still have a question. And what's the result of this. They get: Judge 300, Attorney General 140,000 dollars? We've seen weddings that are where they are, in Lviv, where the sheikhs cried when they saw them, because they can't afford it. Where does the result come from? What's the result of this money? Where Is Corruption Overcome? Where? When the world’s largest edition of Time magazine comes out and says, the article about the president and his environment says that officials are stealing as if tomorrow would not come. So who should explain to them that tomorrow will come, and tomorrow will be theirs, that is where they will be. They're supposed to be the same prosecutors, detectives, cops. Those controls. Not the police who are risking their lives today, but the management of strategic investigations - where? The Ukrainian Security Service, which we're dealing with smuggling, where? It's not the security officers who risk their lives every day in front of us, in counter-intelligence, but the ones who continue to racket for business, the ones who continue to live, not on their broad legs, but just scary. What's the result? Where? Where are the deputy heads of the President's Office detained? How are things with Cyril Timoshenko? Is big stealing all, everyone, forgotten? Are we resting in Kiev’s most expensive bars? Where are things with Tatar, Shurma? Where's Shurma? That's how the world writes it. Your own MP, Tishchenko, "constant" is speaking, saying that the Storm Thief. It's yours, it's the godfather of Jermak, who's next of kin to you. Where is it? Where are criminal cases? To help us understand, Shurma has a brother. The brother has solar power stations in the occupied area of Zaporozhye. And the state budget continues to pay for the electricity that's in the hands of Orcs. Are we out of our minds or what? How is that even possible? And he's his own brother, and his own brother's in charge of this whole system. Imagine that we believe that the brothers are working separately — that businessman is great, and this great official. But then it's called at least a conflict of interest. Where are criminal cases? Where's all this? Where are our prosecutors who get $150,000 in salary? Where is it? It's not there, and then what are they getting it for? Then why are we spending money on this? Why are we doing this? So maybe we should look at all of this. Perhaps we should draw some conclusions from this. Let's move on, people are asking, "Thirty." The next question from people is "thirty." It's a shame, my friends, what happened. By the end of the war, the President of Ukraine had promised that 30,000 dollars would be paid to everyone — each military officer, every police officer, every rescuer. Was it? There was. The president said there'd be a "thirty" in the war. Was it? There was. Look, nobody's denying it. Nobody said I was lying. No, no one. Look, none of the colleagues here say that, well, you're lying, it's not. Well, most of it's gone again because they don't want to hear it. Nothing, we'll have to listen. So here's a question. What's more, the war isn't over, and the '30s' is over. There's no "thirty" since February. We're with you, fellow honourable Members, and here we have to give due respect to Parliament, and we often have people talking about Parliament only bad, but let's be honest, they've done their job here. Did we do our job? People need to know that. On April 10th, we voted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of returning the thirty to all, once again, everyone. We passed a law on this, the law of Ukraine voted here. What do we have today? November 7th, not the red day of the calendar. Guys, how many months has it been, where's the law? Why he is artificially blocked, artificially blocked by the order of the deputy of the Cabal. It's not signed by the Speaker or the President. Why? Where is he? Where is this law? Why don't you sign? Why don't you give people back what they promised? 30,000 dollars a month, that was promised. No money? Go out to the people, honestly, let's have an honest conversation, as in The Economist's article, honest conversation, let's have an honest conversation. No 30s? Okay. What's it for? "Twenty"? Let's give it a 20. But then let's shoot the series, the drums, the incomprehensible other things, the telophones, let's film it, the roads, let's film it. And let's be honest with people, we've taken it all down, we've taken it all down, it's not enough for a thirty, but it's enough for 20. Let's give it 20. Well, let's do that. Why don't we? Why do we ignore this subject? Why do we pretend that we don't know anything about this? Well, that can't be right. And people are watching it, people are seeing it, and it's causing huge opposition. And it raises questions, because we're talking about the military, and what's going on, why we're defending the state, and inside we're being bullied. Otherwise, you can't call it bullying 700 bracelets out of the state. Otherwise, by bullying, the date of the 30, the date of the 30, the 30, the 30, the 30, you can't call it. Otherwise, as abuse, you can't call it, my friends, what we're not talking about here is replacing our military personnel on the front. Yeah, I'm talking about demobilization right now. Why are we ignoring this subject? Why in the Supreme Council since March is my bill on demobilization after voluntary, right to demobilize after 18 months of service. Not even on the committee once. What do we have to do with the National Security and Defence Committee that hasn't been able to find time since March to consider this bill? Why do women, mothers, have to go out to Ukraine today, asking simple questions about why our husbands should be there and why our sons should be there, and we don't know when they're coming home and there's no war for anyone else. Is that an honest question? That's an honest question. And it can't be that we're taking the war on the shoulders of the same people. It can't be, it shouldn't be! There must be justice. It's got to be. And this question of justice, let's raise this question. You're going to tell me, maybe it's not 18 months now, because my law, I introduced it in March. If you take it now for 18 months, maybe a couple hundred thousand people will go there, combat, yes, it's important. Let's, maybe, talk about 24 months, let's put in the fuses that a person has, yeah, okay, 18 months, but a person has to warn no less than three months before. Come on. But let's talk about it and let's think about it, not ignore it. And now you're just ignoring it, just ignoring it as if there's no such thing. There's no question of demobilization, there's no question of paying the military, there's no question of paying the child 860 dollars a month, 860 dollars a month. Don't you have a question like that for you? They used to laugh when I asked that question, and they told me that you were buying country diapers, and they told me. So that we don't have to buy diapers for many politicians when those on the front today come home. To avoid this, we must all remember and think about it, keeping it in our heads. Perhaps then many things will be clarified and many things will change. And this, look, right now I'm actually using 20 minutes of my speech. Look, in 20 minutes, we've been sitting here with you for hours, it's been going on for 20 months, and I've raised some very important questions, and I've only had 20 minutes to raise them. Let's just start answering them. Let's start making decisions for these people, let's start making decisions. I've been talking a lot about the military, and my soul hurts for the military, as I'm sure, for 99 percent of the Ukrainians, because we all understand who's standing between us and the chasm. And the mistreatment of the military, the disrespect of the military, the failure to resolve matters of the military, the lords, it's an unfortunate issue of the U.B.D. We can't decide until now that the hundreds of thousands of people who have earned this U.B.D. status (participating in hostilities) are finally granted this status. But what is the difficulty? Why do we have a person to take and ask for it, write an application, write an application for UBB, write an application for a meal of personal data. And then they say, we can't find your battle logs of your part, we can't do that, we can't do that, we can't do that, we can't do that, we can't do that. And for a person, it turns into a hundred circles of hell. What's the problem? Well, we don't know which one of the people went to zero? That in every part, in every part, I tell you, colleagues, every day a war magazine is formed, there are combat orders issued, and each part knows by name who was at zero on the day. So what's the problem with automating? One person's day was zero, it presupposes today's law, give the UBB to this man, give the status, give the document no abuse, no statements, no references, no fibers, and no abuse. Well, just give it to me, form it up and send it to Acts. Yes, in Acts, please, you can do that in Action. Elections in Action can't be made as much as anyone here would like. For I shall remind you that we have a secret vote. Voting is done in secret and cannot be done in secret in Action. Anyone who does this on a live basis, someone will do it in a family circle, someone with friends for a beer cup, and someone will bring a thousand bracelets, and they'll say, vote for this candidate -- the perfect scheme for bribery, well, it's just a dream for everyone who's been bribed in Ukraine's history. It's very simple: he took a thousand, he gave it to him, he put it in Acts. And maybe someone will threaten, say, "I'm with a knife to you." Vote, push the button for it. There can't be any vote in the election act, so there's no secret to the vote. I'm already talking about how it's going to attack Russia, how it's going to be hacked, maybe. And they're going to tell us who our president is? Bear? That's why I can't have an election in Action. And here's the U.B.A.D. in Action, might be, uh, a "attemptor of combat action" to give a person, in Action, to get a military without asking, without disrespect, without walking, some people with one foot going to that TCK: and where is my UBD, and where is my UBD? A man's already been written down, and she can't get this B.B.D. Well, aren't we ashamed? Well, in 20 months of full-scale incursion, we can't solve such a simple, basic question, it's not complicated at all? In order for a person to get a combat pay once in his life, he was given the right status to get, for God's sake, a wound -- he immediately got the right status, and we told him: "My friend, the state has recognized your merit, you are a participant in combat." Can't we do that? And we don't do that and that, to explain it, well, it's impossible, well, no one can explain it. Sadly, though, this does not happen. What's going on? Then the question arises: What, then, is the busy state? Well, there's not enough strength to help the military, there's not enough power for the mother to help the child, there's no power to help the disabled, there's no power for the pensioner. I didn't say anything about retirees right now, and that's also where people get a thousand 900, two 100, two 200 -- pensions. An elderly person is unwell, unfortunately, how can he survive on it? What, then, is a busy state when it is not occupied with these people? And unfortunately, we all saw what you and I saw. Unfortunately, the word "elections" sounded. And this is where the movement began. I want to remind you that at first President Zelensky said, first victory in war, then elections. And we all supported it. Right, that's right: first victory in war, first defense of the state -- then elections, now let's all unite. That's right. But what went on? And then something went wrong, because by the end of August, President Zelenski was on the national phone -- that's probably to spend 2 billion dollars a year on him -- 2 billion dollars a year, that's crazy! – says something else. What does the president tell us? And the president says, guys, you know, if we get paid for the election, and if they send observers to the trenches, then we can run the election. How's everything else? What about the principle that elections are a struggle with one another? And that's normal for an election, but that's not normal for a time of war. So it doesn't matter anymore? Next came the statement of our esteemed speaker Stefanchuk, who is now missing. Mr. Ruslan began to say no, the Constitution does not prohibit elections. Although the Constitution prohibits elections, at least Parliamentary directly. He says: “No, it does not prohibit elections, it is the law that forbids them. Well, the law is that kind of thing, you can change it. And then our Minister of Foreign Affairs, Kuleb, comes out three days ago and says quite directly, not that anyone forbids, does not forbid, under which conditions there may be elections, no, Kuleba comes out and says: Greensky is discussing the issue of holding elections in the spring of 2024. Whoa! From the fact that there is no election and there will be no victory, to the fact that it will be spring and it will consider this possibility. And I'll tell you, I told the Ukrainian society the other day, it caused some kind of information bomb. Although here in this session room, show me, raise your hand, who didn't know, raise your hand, who didn't know that Zelensky was going to the election on March 24th. Sorry, March 31st, 24. Who? There are some colleagues who didn't know. Then I'm telling you, colleagues who didn't know. I got together, gave the proper orders and started to prepare, and they ran, and now the news is coming out like the letters are even starting to come, the letters are already, when they're talking, you know, no elections. Green came out here yesterday and says, "Those who throw the election theme into society are bad people, so it's wrong." I have a question, why doesn't he release the Tower? Kuleba is the Foreign Minister, direct mandate of the President of Ukraine. Vladimir Aleksandrovich, I'm talking to you, maybe you're watching a broadcast anyway. Please give us an application for the release of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kuleba, for he introduced the subject of elections. You're telling the person who's bringing it, which means it's wrong. Why, then, did he bring complete silence? Where? None. There is no such statement, no such statement. What's more, my friends, I'm out, I'm doing a head commercial. This issue has been published, and Mrs. Irina Fedorov's material has now come out as urgent telegrams on the establishment of a political passport for the communities are being sent to the public administration level. Friends, the political passport of the communities. Is that a question in time? It's a political passport from the community, you know? Here the missiles are falling, the Shahedes are falling, and our political agenda is the political passport of the communities. To avoid being loud, my friends, please let me demonstrate to you, please, right here on air, right here to all of you, my friends, please, a telephonegram, and I read, "The heads of the city, village, village councils, for example, the Buckhan district of Kyiv Region and the head of the Gostomel village military administration." It's a phonegram. "According to the oral commission of the Kyiv District State Military Administration, the Buchan District State Administration requests that data be provided on the political situation in the territorial communities of the region by filling out the political passport added. Please send the information by 12 p.m. 1 November 23rd year to the e-mail of the Communications Department and to the authorities of the local administration. A single sheet plugin in Excel format. Deputy Chief of Administration Sergey Skout." Please, QR code, from QR code, friends, there's a responsible person's phone, like Mrs. Olena Homenko, is her cell phone listed to whom to call. I'm showing you everything. Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Zelenski, who brings elections in Ukraine to society? Who's going to the election? Who now wants to change our victory in war to their own personal victory in elections? Who? Some misunderstood people, some politicians or ministers of foreign affairs, or the heads of the administrations? Who? Please, there's a bunch of them. Here is a letter to the heads of the Bilocerk district, the first deputy head of the Biotzerkow administration, Maxim Kochura. Another letter: For the purpose of your research, send it to us immediately. Political passport, political situation. Who is involved in politics? Who? Who decided that this was at the time of the existential war? But it doesn't seem to be some unknown people, it's not some enemy, it's power, it's power, they just decided to do it. And, of course, if that's what we're looking at right now, taking all the money out of the local community is a super political issue, my friends. It's a super-political question, and you and I understand that very well. Why? For a city head to decide something, someone was helped? No, let's take it all back here to Kiev, that's so cool. Then you can have the eggs of 17 bracelets and the apples of 50. We don't see yesterday's news as a defense minister's deputy, how much for a billion dollars of waste is suspicion? One billion dollars to the deputy minister of defense of Ukraine, who was active here during the war. A billion. So what we're told is, let's give it all to Kiev, let's split it up here in Kiev. But we see how they divide, but we understand how they divide, we all see how they divide. We see and we understand. It's also a matter of politics. Because if you have money, you're the one giving hand, and you're deciding what to give, what to give, no one else. And is it not politics, is it not political history? It's politics and it's political history, and it's perfectly understandable to everyone. That's why I'm talking. It's very good that when President Zelensky felt yesterday after we called things our names, that he was preparing for elections, and there should be no elections, because elections are a moment of separation. In elections, people fight each other, it's normal, and during the war, it's not normal, during the war, it's insane. And when he heard it from people, that people don't understand why elections, what elections, what elections, what manipulations, what is not sincere, what is sincere, where is honesty then, he gave back, and yesterday night he said: not on time. I have a question about how long it's going to be, because we've heard more than just in time, and then a little bit of progress on time. I hope this time the President will hold this position -- not in time, not in time, not in time, not in time. Not on time, I hope. But I'm not sure. But I promise I'll keep an eye on it, and I promise you that everything you think is going on behind closed doors and no one will see it, and no one will know it won't. That's not gonna happen. And people will know everything and we'll show you, and we'll tell you what's going on, because people have a right to know. Because when we talk about the budget, it's people's money, it's taxpayer's money. When we talk about the future of the state, the election, that's what it's going to be like. When we're talking about the military, it's the million that's there, and their families that are there with them every day. Yes, they may be physically in Odessa, Lviv, or Kiev, but they live together with their husbands, every evening, every morning praying to God that they may be alive. Every child, mom, we understand that. We don't have a million people on the front, we have a million families on the front, a million families on the front, and that's their front. And we have to take care of these people because they care about us. And it's honest, it's an honest, you know, honest contract: you take care of us, you protect us, and we have to take care of you. They're doing their part. What about us? Is it fair that at a time when they are fulfilling their part of the covenant, we take the thirtieth in them? Is it fair that when they do their part of the contract, we pay a person who's out of state, 700 bucks? Is it fair that we refuse to even talk about demobilization and replacement? I will replace people to allow those who are exhausted, who have given up all their energy for this moment, because this is not just a matter of physical health, it is a matter of moral, mental health. Man gets exhausted, man can't be forever zero. And this man needs to be given a chance, a chance. In some incredible debate only after hours of performances here, I managed to get us to look at the issue of military vacations and at least give them these vacations. But that's not how we decide. Well, vacation is good, because in some military and vacations there were no, there were 0 days, now there are at least 30. Some had 10, today had 30 and a time to travel, are under family conditions. But that's not enough. Some people already need to be changed, changed to preserve them, for man has given the nation what it can. Some are willing to fight to the end, and these people have respect, gratitude, respect. But some have been exhausted for this moment. But let's let them regain that power. And we don't know, it's Russia's second major invasion, and it's going to be the third, maybe, maybe the fourth, we don't know. Who will protect us if we burn all these people physically and morally and mentally? Who? Who's gonna get up? They're the ones who got up. Who volunteered on February 24, 25, 26? Many of them were those who passed the ATO, those who fought, and they did not hide. They're the ones who got up. They're the ones who stopped the enemy under Kiev. They're the ones who protected the Harks. They were the ones who saved the Mikolai. That's them. And they're not going anywhere. So let's just give them a chance to exhale. Allow them to return to their family. Give them a chance to regain their strength and they will give it back. They'll get it back. They will rise up again for the state when the state needs it. And we've already seen with you that this state is needed and will be needed. Well, that's what we have to do with you. And we keep on doing that and pretending there's nothing to do with it. Don't put these questions in the session room, don't do it. A complicated discussion? A difficult discussion is that people need to be replaced. Not only will someone go there and the army will fall. No, it's not. Replace. This is what The Economist says in his article, yes, human potential. But I'm sorry if we're just gonna talk. It's a question of mobility, too. Those who wanted to go — clearly, thanks. Today, a man who did not volunteer lives, works, but learns that he has a message. So let's ask ourselves honestly. For this man, what he sees as the state refers to the military is a plus for this man to go and serve? Well, he knows that these people were promised one, and they took away, and there was an average payout, and they took it away. My bill on the return of the average wage to the Supreme Council was taken away and not considered or returned. They see there's a way in and there's no way out. That we have a way out of the Armed Forces today is, for God's sakes, 200th or, for God's sake, 300th. In prison, a person is put in prison — a term given. And he's not here, he's out of service, and that's it. No, I don't know, what, 18, 24 months, 36, 48. And in parallel, someone says, and the war will last for years, years. So these years are going to be the same people on the front line? The same? What about the And whether it is justice, and whether it is respect, and whether it is an incentive for a person to go into the army today, when he knows that he has entered and that he does not know. If this person knew, yes, a clear system must be: he has entered, served in these conditions for 12 months, to rotate. I don't know, you haven't been touched in two years. Two years later, he returned to the army as needed. Yes, but man has a horizon, some kind of planning and life. He knows you've been wounded, the state will support you. He knows that maybe they won't pay you a lot of money, because a state in a difficult state, a ruined economy, an empty budget is the truth, but he knows that you're in priority, not a marathon and a serial, but a person who takes up arms. And what they can do will be given by the state. It may not be much, but it won't leave you with 700 bucks after the injury. People then. And they will have another incentive: to go, to stand, to protect, to protect, not to protect, the state that cares. Because to protect those who care, no one really wants to. And that's true, and that's a challenge. And we have to deal with it, and we can deal with it, so there's the Supreme Council, and that's what we need to discuss. Let's hold committee hearings at the Security and Defence Committee, come on. Let's hold closed hearings in the Council, we're closed anyway. Call here the Ministry of Defense, the General Staff, to talk about the numbers of the mobilisation reserve, the numbers that can go. What are we doing? Let's figure this out. Well, you can't just ignore that, because we're going to create a problem that we can't solve at all. We'll ruin everything if we don't go back to our faces, not what your deputies are dancing about. Friends, this is to be remembered and understood, and this is to be understood every day, and to do it is to do it with you. I repeat, work. I'm paying attention, you see, if anyone's been there since the beginning of the broadcast, I'm talking to people on the air. Did you see how many deputies there were? Look how much is left. Well, there is Mr. Stepan of Cuba, Mr. Vladimir Ariev is, Mr. Mikhailo Bondar is, Mrs. Roxolana Podlas is. Where are many other deputies, why did they go? Am I talking about something right now? I'm here, you know, I'm not just reading Shevchenka's poems, and I'm probably talking about topics that are painful in society today that hurt every Ukrainian. These are the subjects we need to discuss with you. The theme of our Crucifixion, where today the driver pays 10,000 dollars. It's never been like this before, disrespect, it's the hardest job ever. Or the wire is 4-5. The theme of our teachers, today with a young teacher, is people, and they say, I'm a young teacher -- 5,000 dollars in wages. Five! Are we looking to the future? Whether a nurse is involved and says four and a half. The nurse is four and a half thousand bracelets. How's that for a living? And at the same time, they hear the prosecutor -- 140,000 dollars. And they're looking at the prosecutor's and debutante's wedding, or the prosecutor's and the debutante who's jealous of the Arab sheikhs. Well, they're not blind people, they're not deaf, they see it all. And we have to answer. We may not give the perfect answer, but we have to give some answer and at least make something better, and at least do something, some step, another half step, another half step on the possibilities that we have today. And of course, friends, a super topic is an important topic in the fight against corruption. Because today, when this magazine of Time comes out, it says that they are stealing something that is not going to happen in Ukraine tomorrow. And then what we're surprised to see is people in New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Oklahoma, and then they're told, President Biden says, let's help Ukraine. And thank you to President Byden for that. He says, let's help, let's get the money over there, lady. And there's a tax payer sitting there who says stop, stop, stop, stop, who do we have to give it to -- the country where, as Time magazine wrote, they steal so that they don't get stolen tomorrow? We understand how catastrophic this article is, and it is a question that has been raised in the world. We need to fix this right now. And we can do that. We don't need Biden, Trump, we don't have to talk to them, we don't have to expect anything from the world. Finally, we open an investigation on everything that the whole country knows. The latest audit of the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Defense, the higher food prices. It's not even a journalistic investigation anymore. Let go immediately of those on whom there is a question. Shourma, Tatarov, hey, get out of here. Open up, Timoshenko Kiril, everybody, hi! Show the world that everything is being investigated here. And even if someone stole something, it happens in every country of the world, the only question is whether they'll find one place or not. So let's show that they're going to find, they're going to take the money back, and then we're going to have a lot less problems with our support. On the other hand, according to the same Time magazine, the subject of 17 bracelets of eggs was ignored for six months until we finally discussed the issue of the resignation of the Minister of Defense of Reznik. Though I remind him of the fellow Servant of the People, standing there, he was applauded when he entered and when he was coming. For which I don't really understand, standing around, applauding, maybe they know why. I don't know, the people of Ukraine don't know, and they can't be the only punishment -- the liberation, they can't. There's got to be an investigation. What's the matter with Bakanov? Where'd he go? The head of the U.S.A. during the invasion, when, we understand, the enemy passed, took the south. How? Where was the bus? Why didn't the bridges break? Why did it all go to sleep? And today we're told that there was an FSB cell in the management of the FSB. So where's the question to Bakanov? Bakanova was released from prison for doing such a terrible job. The president dismissed the article as disciplinarian. Where is the investigation? Why do we know nothing about this? Why was the last news we heard about Bakanova that he suddenly became a lawyer in Poltava County? All of it. We don't know anything about Bakanov anymore. Where are the cases where the investigation is, like, what? No, it's not. Quiet. So there will be no result, there will be no support, and there will be nothing, because these people who have direct responsibility, direct and direct responsibility, they have to answer for it. And they have to explain and show society what is and how. My friends, I want to explain to you that the question that we're looking at right now is, by the way, the 100 billion dollars question, take away 100 billion dollars from local budgets. It's also a question of corruption, by the way, because. What I'm saying is that our local budgets are perfect, that there's no corruption, that they don't spend any money on the junkyards and stadiums? Well, we see people coming out of the country in Lviv and Odessa in other cities. They come out and say, "Stop spending money on stupidity." Spend it on the army. But who set an example for them rather than the central authority of serials, drums, and marathons? Who? Who set the example? And so if today we want this real local authority to spend all the money on the army, so let's do it very simply and honestly, and there are these amendments. Among these amendments that we're looking at, 1 thousand 600, are a series of amendments, including mine, and let's just limit it, not take money into local self-government, but limit the use of military PFCs by the army, by the army. Because there are communities that help the army even more than the military PDF is coming to them, there are such communities and thanks to them. And there are communities that ignore it. And there are communities that have decided that this has fallen on their head the manna of heaven and that they will now share it as they please, and in their pockets they will "place it." Yeah, but it's not supposed to be against the law to take everyone's money, and against that there's gotta be a law to limit it all and all. State Treasury will never miss any expense if they run counter to the Ukrainian legislation that you and I define as national deputies. So let's do this honestly, transparently, openly. I am silent, however, that we are considering the law to withdraw the funds of local self-government from October 1st, October 1st, once again: from October 1st of this year. We have today November 7th, something tells me that when I finish my speech, I would very much like the chairman to put the bill to the vote, well, I would like to believe that the presiding officer will not close our session and not say, but now they're separated because here the MPs have dispersed. Well, we're going to vote for this law, I'm not going to vote for it, but I'm looking at it so clearly that the mood is, they say, the potential is, because it takes money away from someone, it's easy to find the potential, they vote. Then something tells me, there'll be indictments, then there'll be signatures, they'll still be in a hurry, of course, the law will still be finally signed, well, in the second half of November, not before. Explain to me: How can I recover the money from October 1st in the second half of November? Yeah, no, I'm gonna have a record of over 90 minutes, I'm going. That, Anton, is what you saw wrong. So, how can you take the money out of October 1st, the back number again? I'm telling the government on the budget committee: will you take it away from October 1, 2018? And the deputy minister tells me, nice idea, says good idea, likes it. Well, we're adults, we have families, that's all. You're in your family, you've already spent money in October -- and suddenly someone comes to you in November and says, "Come back!" How's that? So, including the same military men, they've already given up. How's that? Well, what kind of state can they say, from October 1st, let's go back? Well, that's crazy! And we have this right now in the law, this is the law of Ukraine, which colleagues are going to vote on, accept and live on. What are these signals to who, anyway? How can something be planned in the country? How can you do something? How's that? How? Well, it's kind of, well, scary, I don't know, an owl or something, that we're going to be the last number that the rule of law doesn't have. These are important things, because, well, these are the rules that begin with, these rules begin with everything. The fight against corruption begins. And, you know, in every situation, you can find that, unfortunately. I've got a lot of people writing to me right now: 128th. We know what you're talking about. It's about 128 brigades and the tragedy that happened to her. What a tragedy! This is when the owl builds, 30 kilometers from the front line, wait for the commander. While waiting, a Russian rocket awaited us. Murdered heroes, wounded heroes, shock all over the country. Let's be honest: is this the first time? This is the first time we have such unnecessary losses because there were simply no other arrivals: teaching centers, barracks, where no one ever thought about the risks? Why is that? And because we are hearing today, the commander of the 128 brigade is removed from his post. And the other question is, how did 128 brigade commanders become the man who was convicted of smuggling cigarettes in 2019? Convicted of smuggling a cigarette. And at that moment, the combatants and the Lieutenant Colonel, in the 19th year, the combatants and the Lieutenant Colonel, became the 23rd Combry and Colonel. You might ask, that's an interesting question, who appointed this person after the 19th year, after the sentence that a person did. because there are different officers, because there are different deputies, because there are different ones. There are officers who are role models, and there are officers who have been doing completely different, smuggling, "breaking." Look, there's someone out there yelling, it's not clear who we have there, we have different people in the Council, and there's also clowns, there's constants, there's racketeers, and there's a man who's actually that kind of person. This, my friends, is the racketeer Tishchenko who woke up, and the racketeer Tishchenko screams something out there, "Damn." I think he's going to take a line and he's going to explain to us the whole truth about his racket, about the constants, about the colossal centers, about the woods, about the quarantine, about Velour, about everything else. Oh, you see. Yeah, okay. When, you see, people, when, you see, Tichenko is sitting there at the end, yelling. Do you see him? He hid behind a column, hid behind a column. Mr. Volodymyr, can I ask you to show people a little closer that he's yelling? Thank you. Who's yelling? Thank you very much. Now let's show him that he's out there yelling, Mr. Tishchenko directly. Yeah, well, guys, it's a very interesting question, by the way, that people like him still in the Supreme Council don't sit in jail. Instead of sitting in jail, Tischenko is sitting in the Supreme Council Hall, still shouting. And that's where it all starts. From when there are people in the Supreme Council who have a place in prison. Some of the people's "ministers" now meet at the S.I.A., there is such a "minister" of the people of Gunko, he's in the S.I.A., he's holding it there, he's heating a bar and for Tishchenk, I have no doubt, and for many colleagues. Oh, you're here! It's Gunko! Guys, Gunko's with us! I didn't know that, God forgive me! Gunko's here! Dude, he's not in S.I.A. anymore. Friends, National Deputy Gunko is the one whose NABU has shown the footage of the $80,000 bag of money that Tishenko and I had here was the head of the Commission of Inquiry, Tishchenko in the woods, and this one in the agricultural land. We also greeted him from the rostrum to the hospital. Guys, hurrah! Gunko's back! Hooray! Comrades, Gunko is here! It's all over, you don't have to. Friends, fiction, Gunko is already in the Supreme Council, Tishchenko in the Supreme Council is fantastic. Jurchenko, who was taken, is probably sitting here somewhere. Jurchenko is sitting here with us, too? Oh, no? The one they took on this, on a $200,000 ivy, who had stolen a few bottles of beer from the store before, and then became a national deputy. He's here, too, I understand, Jurchenko. Friends, so tell me all the shame. I ask Gunka, Tishchenka, Jurchenka to give some kind of a replica, to give a replica of one after that, to tell us how their experience has been, how to confiscate money, or how to tell how wrong and bad NABA is. It's fantastic, my friends. You guys, you can see what's going on right now. You can see it on live television. Look at this. You've clearly seen why in the country this is all of this. Oh, there he is, there he is, that clown got up, look. Why the confusion? Why? Because such ones as Tishchenko are sitting in the Supreme Council, not in prison. Look, look, it's like this. Gunko's back. So imagine, and a man speaks calmly, yes, and what do you say, here I am, Gunko, I am. You've been arrested because of a bribe, and you're saying, yes, no, I'm already here, it's okay, there's no questions. Guys, this is crazy, this is crazy. What do we show? I don't know. Guys, come on, who wants to say something to our deputies? Now we're going to try to hear people directly. And, yes, yes, I think there are people who would also like to say something to the national MPs who see this whole mess. And let's go, my friends, one of our military men. Let's try it. Can you imagine what's going on? It's just that people write, and now people are sitting there writing one down. These are the screams, look. Where do they all want it? That's right, zero. This right here is the kind of, you see, they have these fantastic powers. I'd like to, friends, one of our military, maybe you know, hear it, hear it. And that, I think, would be very, very necessary. Guys, if it's one of the military guys, tell them it's military, and we'll give you something to say. Because you see what's going on here. You're military? Friends, right now, maybe we'll just hear someone from our military, they've long wanted to say something to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, maybe now we'll give them a chance to say directly from scratch what they think. Right from the bottom of the line, and that would certainly be what I think we need to hear. Because if you'll excuse what's going on in this Supreme Council, it's not exactly what people expect of this Supreme Council and what should be. You're military? Yes, there is something here that prevents us from uniting the military so that the military can tell us something about the people who are doing this here and doing it. Friends, as long as we try, I will definitely continue with what I think I am. Good afternoon. You're military?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u33	Alexiyovich! Alexiyyovich, with all due respect, we don't have the form of work that you're trying to do right now. We're happy to wait for all the military in this room, and I think there's always 226 soldiers involved when there's 226 in this room. So I suggest you go back to your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u34	All right, let's go back. Guys, they don't want to hear from the military, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u35	And, Alexei Alexiyovich, now, a second. Mikola Mikolaiovich, there are other colleagues, let's not disturb the order in the hall, then everyone will have the right to a replica, in all the above-mentioned persons. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u36	Okay. Okay. Then I'm really here to support our colleagues to give them the opportunity they're all called to have the right to a replica. Dear friends, well, I'm sorry, military, you see, there's no form of work to hear from the military, I wanted to include you, well, then only yours can. What you're going to write, I can quote your questions as well. But it was said that there would be replicas. So I would like to hear the rumors from others of our own, from other colleagues. I would like to hear a reply from Mr. Hetmantsev, a colleague who was a helper to Sovkovic three times. Soybeans. Today the U.S.S.A. says it's the head of a Russian agency network in Ukraine. And three times his assistant was the national deputy Danilo Hetmans. I'm also giving you the opportunity, Mr. Daniel's right to reply. Of course, who else is here? Jurchenko mentioned it. That's what Gunko said. Someone else, if they want to hear it, write to me. I'll remember, maybe they'll find some time and energy to give an answer. Mr. Tzabal, who blocked the payment by his order to the military. I think he has something to say, too. It would be wonderful to hear his voice from him. There are many deputies here that people would love to hear. So I'm giving you all the opportunity to tell you what's going on and why it's happening. Now, my friends, I'll continue. We're talking to you today about the state budget. So it doesn't look like what I'm saying, you know, about the issues, but I'm not talking about how to solve them. Because, really, we all see problems, but how to solve them. Some problems today I made clear how to solve them. The problems of the military, I said, need a law on substitution, i.e. demobilizing one another and replacing them. He passed such a bill. Let's think about it, let's define ourselves. I'm offering solutions, not just saying it's bad, so everybody knows it's bad. But that's what we can decide. He passed the rotational bill because there are units that for zero 20 months, they're not steel either. That's what we're saying: our steel soldiers are made of metal. But even the metal is getting tired. Let's solve the rotational issues. They worked three months at zero, protected the state, and left for at least a month. Well, that's how it's supposed to be. And so it was promised. Unfortunately, there is no such thing for many departments. That's why it's also an offer. What should we do? What about the economy? We're told here what to do, yes, economically. Well, I'll tell you what to do with the economy. It's not about putting taxes in the head, it's not about printing money, it's not about racquetting, it's about changing taxes 500 times a year, it's about putting a job. And any entrepreneur who creates a job just has to support it as much as possible, doesn't ask for anything from the state, pays wages to people, thank God. And then there's some kind of income tax at least, the one you want to divide right now. What do you want to take? You want to take the tax off the income of the natural person. This is the tax that is collected from every person's salary, the VAT. And how do you create this tax? And give people that salary. Give it to people, this salary. And to do that, she needs to make it ours. The next question here in the Supreme Council is to return the checks to business. Guys, they still want to get back on business. It's right that our taxpayers don't feel well, I understand, I feel bad. Let's make it even more possible for them to engage in racketeering. All these economic security offices, the tax office, all these endless ones that walk, demand, take away. Friends, well, it's a reality, we all know it. That way, you and me. Here's the answer. What should we do? On the contrary, prohibit these tests. This baby, in the way it's working today, is of no use at all, but we're still spending hundreds of millions on it. Take the money. Allow those who create jobs not to touch them. Don't touch them. Absolutely. What do we do? We do completely different things. It's about economics. And this is very important. What can we do about foreign policy, where it is very difficult? Today, it's very difficult. But finally, to open up the potential of the Supreme Council, to stop doing stupid things. When a speaker sits here and decides who can go abroad, who can't. It only turns out that when "ministers" of the people, somehow they can't, and in the Maldives they find themselves in a strange way. In Thailand they find themselves in a strange way, in other places they find themselves in a strange way. And when you want to go to protect the country, work like I do at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, no, they don't, because you talk too much, because there are too many questions about you and we don't like you, and we won't. Here you have reached out to the feast and said about your father's scholarship to Zelenski. Then after that, you're here, and we're here, oh, we're going to make sure you don't have any room. Because, I don't know, it's a separate story. So we didn't hear an answer to that, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If he didn't, why didn't he say no? Well, that's ridiculous, that's kind of ridiculous. We've told people today how hard it is, and at the same time, the President's father's permanent scholarship. With all due respect, thank God, he has a son who can support his father properly. Why are these 6,000 dollars from the state, let's give it back. There are those who need them today, right. These are the things that all begin with, that people see, that they draw conclusions about everything, about us with you, about the attitude, about the situation in the country. We need to keep this in mind, and we need to talk to you about it. Let's not get people involved, then I'll try to ask you a question. That's what people say, demobilization. I'm what people write: demobilization, "thirty," wages, borders, where to go? Many are concerned about the question, but where are the deputies? I don't know, colleagues, where the deputies, where they all went. Today we have November 7, the second working day of this month of the Supreme Council, neither in military personnel who have no weekends nor in doctors or teachers who have a five - day working week. We have a second day of work in seven days. On the first day of Saturday, we had 17 deputies here, now we have maybe 30 deputies here. There were probably 200 deputies here. How long will it take to complete? Are we the ones we started with today? At 12, we don't work for two hours. And why they get so tired, so tired, so tired, so chronic tired of MPs, it's such a complicated story that they can't, like, stand it. 860 bracelets, people, well that's for kids, that's obviously what they all write. Well, Tishchenko is a traitor, of course, there are no questions. Next. Well, 128 brigades, hopefully there'll be an investigation, and it'll never happen again, so terrible. It's a tragedy, of course. He writes: “They are tired in advance. Yeah, that's a hundred percent, tired in advance. Workplaces, people write. People write, jobs, give us where we're going to work, and we come back from abroad, people write, but we want to work. They say they don't get 100. The military says 500 bucks came to pay me. It says "military." Probably out of state. So what do you say to this man? What am I supposed to tell this man? But I don't know, I tell the MPs, today I've said this 10 times, we can solve the simple question of the people who are out of state, our military? Well, let's not throw them out for begging. Well, not 500 bucks, not 500 bucks a month, it's impossible to live for. The price of gas, people write, questions. Weapons. Yes, weapons are all important questions. Why does the blood-volunteerprom work, why does the minvolonter work, and why, unfortunately, do we not see enough of our Ucrobanprom, of our Mini-Defense? Because it's a question of the survival of the state, and that's what The Economist wrote in his article, and we understand everything, we understand that it's difficult. And by the way, notice, it's also showy. The debtor writes in an article, he writes no criticism at the address of the President or the President's Office. And right, and it can't and shouldn't be, he's the Commander-in-Chief, and the President is the Commander-in-Chief. But after the article comes Jermak’s deputy, Mr. Zovkwa, on the screens of the National Telephony and criticizes the Handsome. I don't understand it at all. Even if I don't want to go in there, maybe something. This will solve the question behind closed doors, why do you show all over the world that there is at least friction in Ukraine's higher military and political leadership. Why do we need this? Why are you doing this, there's nothing on the phone by accident, guys, nobody gets there by accident? If he showed up there, that was necessary. And then the question of how the SS commander was released is, on the same day, the signal. The SS commander says I learned about my release, says the media. Sidov was planning military operations, and here I'm gonna find out who you are, you're nobody, you're fired. General, Special Operations Force Commander. We're out of our minds. How could that be? No, there's someone there to release who's supposed to be in command of the SS, to decide on the Supreme Commander. He's more visible. But you can't fire a person to learn about it from the media. Media, that is, from the Internet. It's a good thing it was signed on some kind of telegram channel, preferably Hotcharyenka, and found out from there. And if he didn't, he'd still be in charge for a while. What's that all about, how can it be in a country? In principle, how could such a thing happen in a country? It is also a matter of respect for the same military personnel. This all begins with a private who is taken out of the state and paid 700 dollars to a general who is given a landmine, what he learns from the Internet. An explanation of what it's like, why it is. Guys, what's going on? How can that be? As it may be, I was in Level yesterday, in Lutsk, in Neteshina, I mean, I think I was asked in Level. No, Lutsk, I'm sorry, people asked me about Lutsk and told me a story. There a woman who had stolen a piece of the hall was taken, and she was given five years in prison for two months. This was no longer the first of hers, unfortunately, to steal from a supermarket. And stealing is stealing, but for a piece of the hall she was given five years. Five years in prison. And the national MPs who were caught in a bribe for $80,000 say, "We're here, we're good." And people with billions of questions are doing well. It's okay. For 5 years, for billions, the state reward, and the hero of Ukraine can also give. Why, no. It's probably a huge one. And this is a huge problem that kills us, just kills us. And that's what creates, breaks society apart, that's what's causing a lot of questions. That's why we have the problems we have today, and we have to solve them. And if you and I continue to ignore them, if instead we break everyone through our knees, if instead we just don't hear and hear anything, there will be catastrophe and disaster. I said I'd tell you what to do. I've already said things: economic policy with priority in the workplace, real anti-corruption fight, real, not a five-year-old piece of the hall, but finally taking on those who steal billions or millions. Real things. All the infrastructure created, the NAB is, the SAP is, the Anti-Corruption Court is, they all have, the money is, the laws are, everything is, let them work, let them show the result. Because when I see the news on the NABA website that they sent the case to court for exposing the seeds to 3 million dollars. Is that two barrels of seed there, or what? And at the same time, I don't hear any news after the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Military Administration gave 1.5 billion dollars of contract money on the roads last year, during the war, to a fitness instructor and her company, who then somehow happens to be traveling with him abroad, crossing the border, seeing that they're constantly training together. And 1.5 billion dollars give it away, and we don't hear the result. Where is she? Well, it's not a piece of gym, is it? That's 1.5 billion dollars! Where is it? This is the next thing that needs to be done in the state, the next. But I'm not stopping, I'm saying the next important thing. We said that the elections are not in time, and thank God, and we hope that the authorities have come to their senses and will stop doing that. What, then, of time, my friends? And at the time of the actual merger. And how is this connection going to work? I'll tell you. At the beginning of this invasion, we had a lot of people in the world comparing President Greensky to Churchill, saying, Churchill, he's there. And for Ukraine, I'm not going in right now, there's a question that's called this similarity. But for Ukraine it was a good, really good comparison, because the whole world, well, Churchill is a historical figure, and when they say: Ukraine is led by a strong leader -- super, well, that's good for the country. I've never questioned this comparison anywhere abroad, I've never questioned it: yes, yes, of course, because it's for the country. But let's be honest and say a few things. First. And what did that real Churchill, not our Churchill, but this Churchill, when he became Prime Minister in May 1940, in the face of the greatest trials, the existential challenge for Britain? He invited the opposition, he called Etley, the leader of the opposition, to become his deputy. He united the entire British Parliament, 600 people. By the way, I think the British Parliament was better off going to work than today's Ukrainian Parliament, as we can see, on Saturday there were 17 people, now there are 30 people -- fatigue. And they were all united, and there was a great coalition. The elections in Britain were not between 1935 and 1945, and the country was victorious. In fact, after the victory Churchill lost the election, well, that's life and democracy. But for 10 years there were no elections and no one questioned Churchill's legitimacy, something like that. There were no questions, for the whole country was united, all together, there was no one who had been erased. What did Netanyagu, Prime Minister of Israel, do after the terrible events of October 7, when there was this attack, and killed people, and disaster? It's in Israel. We all don't love each other very much here, but in Israel the level of political hatred, I think, is even higher than in Ukraine, yes, by looking at a colossal level. Thank you. A colleague brought me a bottle of water. This is a true friend and friend! Fellow MP Savrasov. Now, my friends, what did Netanyagu do? Netanyagu called the opposition to join him in government. The first thing he did. While we understand with you that Hamas’s attack on Israel does not pose an existential danger to Israel. Well, Hamas cannot destroy Israel. And Russia, unfortunately, could have destroyed Ukraine. I hope he can't. But it was an existential challenge, and it remains for us. Well, sure as hell not compare Hamas to Putin. Well, yes, from the point of view of killing, terrorists do, but not from the point of view of danger. The nuclear power has attacked us. And what did our Churchill do? He marginalized the opposition, pushed everyone away, and Parliament transformed. Well, we're not making any real decisions here, well, it's just sitting there pressing a button. There seems to be one person from Parliament who can go into the President's office, and she's not here right now. There are two other people who may be able to do some work. Maybe our speaker and his first deputy can knock there, maybe someone will tell them something. All of it. All of it. We don't see the President's Council. If he's coming, well, just give us a speech: he's on his way, and he's gone. We sang the chorus of Veryovka, he listened – he left. There's no contact. I addressed the President with a letter of law. It's a question of the status of the People's Deputy, and the People's Deputy has the right to receive any leader. I've asked the President: I want to, I've asked, I'm calling for a meeting. In the fifth year of Zelensky's presidency, and in parallel I'm a national MP, I asked once: give me an hour, I want to ask a question, report the situation, tell me what seems important to me, that maybe Jermak doesn't tell you. Maybe you don't know that. All quiet, no one's even answering me. I didn't even get an official answer. I get it, Jermak sent it away, clearly that he sent it away, said there, they're looking for me again, because it's our bodies that can do political tasks. They're running, they're looking for something, because this one, you see, still wants to meet, ask some questions. Yes, because I'm also a representative of the people of Ukraine, like the President, and I want to put it up, and I want to tell you. Where? None. Our government, but I already have. Mr. Schmigal. A lot of people in the country. You know, I was doing an experiment, and I was in the street asking who knows the Prime Minister's name. Nobody. No one knows the name of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Smigal, I remember, Schmigal. We haven't seen him in months. We're told we'll be back "hour of questions to the government," once he came, sat for an hour, it's 20 months, no, it's almost 21, and he's gone. All of it. That's it for as long as it's over. Where is he? Where are they? Is it a union? Is that Churchill? Is that an existential challenge? This can be given to all as many people in the country as possible. Give everyone a job, cut down the task, the Supreme Council has a job, and you have a job. Then we just have to let go, not eat in one mouth, and not think that you are one god kissed, for every person can be wrong, and every person can do something or do something wrong or wrong. I think Greensky doesn't even understand why we need a parliament. I don't think anyone needs it at all. Unfortunately, many of the colleagues he's brought here, and they're forcing people, maybe even his own, to think that it's a coincidence that no one needs. Friends, Parliament, I just want to remind our viewers why Parliament is important. Look at any successful country, it's parliamentary. Either it's a parliamentary-presidential state, or there's a strong Parliament, like in the United States, with a strong President, but a strong Parliament. Why? Because it's a balancing mechanism, it's a kind of deterrence, it's a dialogue, it's a discussion. Someone knows about military matters, someone else in medical, someone else in education. And that's how country expertise is produced. And what are our discussions here with you? They're not there, we're not discussing them on the committees, we're not discussing them in the hall, because why? They came to vote, they pressed the button, they went on. It's all written in one place: the President's Office and, in principle, no one is needed. They're all run by two people, and I understand they're so comfortable, but they're making a huge mistake, Germany and Green. When they are. First of all, it's a colossal responsibility that they've taken on as well. And secondly, they erase a colossal part of society from the ability to influence the situation, to change the situation, to feel what they need, and mistakes become inevitable, and mistakes become irreversible, and we're paying a huge price for all of this today, colossal. Friends, these are very important questions that I'm asking. Yeah, I understand that a lot of people have split up, MPs don't want to hear, they don't want to see, but, guys, I'm gonna have to hear, I'm gonna have to see, because we don't have any other options. The country needs to see the truth, the country needs to know the truth, the country needs to influence politicians, we need to sober them up, like we did with the elections. And it's very good that we made, forced ourselves, so we still have to do it. I have a request for Mr. Arthur Gerasimov, a request from my colleague. I'm asking you to choose from my right some important rights that apply to military money or not to be the back number that we're going to put to the vote at the end of my speech, because I want all of us to demonstrate the potential, to show how many deputies we have here, to show how many of those who aren't that tired in the second working day of the month. We worked November 4th from 2:30 p.m. to 11:00 p.m., it's 8.5 p.m. A normal eight - hour workday. Now we've been doing our work for two hours. 10.5 hours a week, you can probably work, and it's not as if your hands are holding back, your legs are refusing, and there's no strength, and there's nothing to do, there's nothing to do, there's nothing to listen to. Yes, that would probably be right. And show who's who, and show them these votes, and put them everywhere to be seen, and who's going to work, and who thinks it's a job and what it takes to do it. If the teacher doesn't come to work, he'll be thrown out, if the military doesn't come to work, that's the one. So this is the situation that we, friends, have, and it requires a different quality of Parliament’s work, which requires a real Churchill - style union, not a fair union, unfortunately, in the style of Zelensky. And let's think about it until it's too late. The situation in the country is very difficult, the situation on the front is difficult. And it's not me who's saying it, it's Chief of Staff. The economic situation is too difficult. And when it comes to research that Ukraine among the nine most taxed countries, Hi, Getmantsev, was guided. Nine countries in tax hell, and we are on that list. When the situation in international politics is too difficult, when Ukraine's assistance and support depended, when Ukraine's finance minister said yesterday that we might have a 29 billion-dollar hole, we imagine it's a figure. That means the bracelets fall apart, that's what it means. It's a disaster. So it means that it needs to be rectified, at this point we need to work, at this point we need to take the right steps, we need to find a way to save the country, as we did 20 months ago. It's not too late to do that. Thank you. I want to put the following amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u37	What numbers, please? Give it back to the potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u38	Thank you. Thank you. They're fucking here, but let's fucking do it. In the meantime, it's about the repairs. Amendment 1346, it's about action and where. It's an amendment that solves everything. I'm just briefly explaining this amendment and on one of these amendments, we're not even going to be. And these two. Yeah, three fixes and that's it. I'm explaining why they're important. So this is the amendment: 1346, 1632 and 1633. And there's a dot on that. It's an amendment that says: don't take anything from local self-government, don't rob, don't destroy decentralization, but let's limit it here in Parliament, that all military PDF is to go to an army that doesn't have to go to the hearth, or the stadiums, or whatever else it is, to the army. Let's define it here in the Supreme Council, set up a framework for local self-government, and we have to do the same. This amendment will resolve the matter. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u39	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the People's Deputy of Honcharenko to take into account the order number 1346 of the People's Deputy of Honcharenko. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:11:14]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on the vote number 16. Show the factions, please. 1632th People's Deputies of Goncharenko. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:11:42]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And number 1633 of the People's Deputy of Potterenka. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:12:05]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Tichenka, the line. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u40	Thank you for your word. First of all, I want to say that in the framework of the work of the interim commission of inquiry, we have received information that it is Mr. Hotcharenko's family that is now uprooting the Ukrainian forests in Odeschen. Similarly, we examine this information. I want to remind you that this disgraceful conscience of Mr. Potterenk, according to our information, as we do, has helped the fugitive Mr. Yanukovic to export money from the National Bank of Ukraine. I mean, I want everyone to understand that people don't belong in Parliament. He belongs behind bars today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who will insist on taking account of the rights? Who will insist on taking account of their rights? Masuras. Do you remember the numbers, George? Then say it, please. Masuras.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u42	Now let me tell you what the revisions are now. 1091, 1104, 1108, 1109, 1110, 1112 and 1115 and one 1108 I'm going to bet on it. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u43	Please, five minutes Mazurash. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u44	George Mazurashu, Servant of the People, 203rd District, Cherniewec Region. Here, colleagues repeatedly point out that there are few national deputies in the hall. And I'll tell you the position, the opinion of our voters, well, my constituents, because I usually communicate with my constituents. They do not understand why national deputies can afford not to go to work. This is basically the main part of our work. So the one that's most visible, let's say this is because there are others, of course, the components of the activities of the Ukrainian national deputy. I think we should make some changes in order to make people's deputies because they don't go to work, like other citizens, if you don't show up at work for three days, if I'm right, they're fired. In order to do the same, if a member is not at work for three days directly in a sessional room or at a meeting of a Main Committee, that would result in a loss of a mandate. And then I'd see if my colleagues wouldn't go, because they don't want to hear anyone there, and they don't want to hear any more. It's not a secret that, yes, we represent different positions of different voters, different political forces, and sometimes, perhaps so, it's not very pleasant to listen to opponents, but it's our job, we've been chosen. At least there's work to be done here. Yes, you can vote yellow, red, if not supported, but be at work here. Now, with regard to this bill, which is, in principle, designed to allocate additional funds for defense of needs, this is a sacred matter. I've already said in one of the previous statements that I think is relevant, but that it had to be done much earlier and a little bit under another sauce, yes. I mean, I think that even all taxes from communities could be brought to the centre, but in parallel to compensate communities by using a clear and transparent formula what they need to do, because they also have to have money in the budget for different needs all the more in conditions when the state has thrown a lot down. This is what we call fashionable different words, decentralization and so on, and put on your head. But in order for us to have more funding for defense needs, we need to take a little bit more care of the economy. Not to destroy, not to help destroy, but to contribute to the real economy of Ukraine, so that the part that is still working can continue to function. And we're doing it the other way around, and now we're thinking of doing some extra tests again, right? They don't check much. That's how you check those who work in the shadows now, not to send checks on those who work "in the white" to put them on their knees and force them to pay unofficially, not in the budget, but to those who come to check. We understand what this is about. And I can also give some examples where unfortunately, the system reflects on citizens' willingness and, in principle, not only to serve and protect them, but even to work. That's a short example. A citizen from the Hersonian region left with his family (two children, a pregnant wife), suffering, traveling, and reaching the Kyiv region. Then he went with his colleague, where he stayed here, in the Kyiv region, to the Chernivites to look for the possibility of setting up a family there, so he was taken to the station with a colleague of this, a friend of his, met the branch representatives of the TTC company, deceived there and immediately led him to write everywhere he was fit. Well, you can't do that. And this should also be said openly to society. If military personnel are harmful, harmful, it should be said directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u45	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote on the number 1108 proposal of Mazuras. This is the ruling of the National MP Mazurash, she's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:19:33]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. No one insists on their rights anymore? More? Oh, you still have it. Yeah, maybe 10 minutes and all. How? Five at a time. All right, Mazurash, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u46	Amendments: 1116, 1118, 1119, 1121, 1124, 1125 and 1126, so please include 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u47	Yeah, if you're gonna put one on, let me know.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u48	I'll bet everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u49	Every one?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u50	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u51	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u52	George Mazurashu, Servant of the People, 203rd District, Cherniewec Region. It will be me, colleagues, to express some thoughts from the voters I associate with and with whom I sincerely recommend that we communicate as often as possible. Because it's important that we be in Parliament, our activities, our initiatives, our position is synchronized with the position of those who have chosen us and delegated us to work in Parliament. This is how I get asked at elections, and why, why the state doesn't communicate openly, frankly with its citizens, the authorities don't communicate with their citizens openly, honestly. And here, even when some opponents speak, I agree that, yes, we should speak honestly to the same military. If there is not enough money to pay them on time, and there are objective reasons for it, we understand which, in fact, we should tell them honestly that, yes, there is not enough at this stage. It would probably be logical for the same proportion to go back to a certain period of money and all the other representatives of the budget sector who receive large wages. I'm not talking about those who get a minimum or a few minimums, and that's barely enough to survive. I am asked by the voters, and why we do not pay attention to the damage being done by representatives of the district assembly and social support centers. Although I suggested that they change their name and social support to clean up, because, unfortunately, they don't really do social support except for funeral aid, that's where they work more or less. Why, they're really hurting what they're doing, they're chasing the streets all over the place, trying to get into an army unit, they're hurting in a complex way. They harm the citizens themselves, and the economy, and depending on the economy of defence, and the army accordingly, and the country as a whole. That's what we need to talk about. Yes, we speak often, heroes of glory, Ukrainian heroes of glory! That's right. And we believe in the U.S.S.A., we thank the defenders for defending our state. But the form also includes those who are causing great harm to both the defence and the victory, and the country as a whole. And it's important for colleagues from the profile committee to communicate with the same Ministry of Defence and other military, military leadership that it's unacceptable that we have to optimize our decisions and actions so that we can be more comprehensively effective in resisting racist aggression, not harming citizens and the economy at that time. And citizens really want to support the army, it really is. But if you're going to make an army, you're going to have to have one. Of course, when someone gets there even in the budget area, which is shameful for a warring country, hundreds of thousands, and someone millions more, special, of course, can be made up. I don't count people's money, but I don't think they're going to make that much. And when citizens get five in their hands there with something from a minimum or there, and they barely reach from place to place, it's clear that they can't support the army. So we need to give people the opportunity to work. If certain men between the ages of 18 and 60 can't fight for various reasons, someone can't do health there, by, I don't know, moral-will qualities and so on, then we have to be able to work and contribute to the economy, because it's coming into the budget and it's financing the same military needs. And if someone doesn't have the ability to work here for more or less worthy wages, which will allow them to support themselves and their family, then let them go abroad and work abroad, for example, on the terms of guaranteed contributions to the U.S.S.S.A., as I suggested in Bill 8029, for which there are different interpretations manipulative going on the internet.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u53	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of Mazurash, the National MP of Mazurash, to count the number 1116, his authorship. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:25:45.]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Everybody bet, Georgie? Yeah. I'm betting on the vote number 1118 of the People's Deputy Mazuras. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:26:11]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the People's Deputy Mazurash to take into account the number 1119 of his authorship. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:26:35]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of National MP Mazurash to take into account the number 1121 of his authorship. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:26:59]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the National MP Mazurash to take into account the number 1124 of his authorship. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:27:24]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Georgiy Georgievich, are you still there, then the next block will be? Did we end up on 1126 or 5th?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u54	Six.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u55	Put two more, huh, now?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u56	Six more.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u57	Another fifth and a sixth.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u58	Fifth and sixth, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u59	Okay. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the People's Deputy Mazuras to take into account the number 1125 of his authorship. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:28:04]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And amendment number 1126 of Mazurash's authorship. I'm willing to vote on his proposal. Please vote. [[14:28:28]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Please, Georgiy Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u60	Amendments 1128, 33, 56, 71, 73, 1207 and 1402. Five minutes, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u61	And you put them all in?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u62	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u63	Let's do it again then. 1128, 33.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u64	56.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u65	56, 71.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u66	73, 1207, 1402.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u67	Okay. Thank you. Please, Mazurash, five minutes from now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u68	George Mazurashu, Servant of the People, 203 District. Now I'd like to talk a little bit about cost efficiency. Yeah, it's worth bringing these budget costs into the budget to be able to target them in defense of the needs, but it's probably going to take an innocent reputation for it, they say, for the proper authorities that use these funds in the defense field in particular. Because if there's a lot of abuse around here and it's public information, of course, a little bit, as they say on the Bukovina, you have to have a face to admit it, not to say that you're using it wrong, and we're using it in the center more correctly. But about the efficiency of the use of funds, it's about the effectiveness of using them directly in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I'm going to tell you right now, not putting into the public domain what can't be done to keep any military secrets out there from being declared, but for example, the conversation was not far from the front line with the boys, the volunteers, in fact, what's special about respect and gratitude, about what's going on in our military units of some. Not everywhere, they're more efficient, less efficient in terms of spending, including. And I'm told by guys that, for example, there's one battalion where there's 500 people there, 500 people there with something, and they're asking the battalion commander, and on how many of these more than 500 military personnel you can actually count on in a combat environment to carry out combat missions. The commander thought and said, "Come on, man 40." Okay, somewhere else, military boys are told that there's three more on one directly warlord or in a trench, or where some tasks are done by the military, fighting tasks, about three more need to work: cooking, something else there, car service, and so on. But most of them are the ones the commander himself says there's no point. Yeah, they don't get $100,000. But given where they are, about 30 have to pay. That's the question: is it an efficient use of funds, which are still very insufficient in the budget to finance defence needs. Why? Why is it directed to those who are caught on the streets and threats and forced into the army? Is there an obstacle to those who conscientiously carry out battle tasks, including? And we're saying there's not enough money? So it's better to be able to make more flexible use of the funds that are earmarked for one or the other units, so that, even for the managers themselves, we can focus on NATO standards, where they have more opportunities, let's say, to demonstrate their managerial skills and lower-level managers, let them pay more to those who are actually doing the fighting tasks that are really important for the protection of the country, rather than scattering them, including those that are simply hindering. Because of those who are forced and threatened into the army, there's no explanation there, only unnecessary and unnecessary problems, because, as the commanders themselves say, from those countries where it's very hot, close to the front line, they refuse to follow orders, they leave positions, they flee, they surrender, and even worse, there are situations that they won't talk about, they're going to sound. So why are we doing this? Why are we spending money on those who might be working in the back of the economy at this time? And we could have more money to finance the army and those who are on a voluntary basis ready and protecting the country on an advance basis. We need to turn on, as they say, the mode of mobilising common sense and use the funds effectively both in the back and directly in the army.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u69	Yes, Georgie, we'll put your papers on. I'm betting on the vote number 1128 of the People's Deputy Mazuras. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:34:36]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the People's Deputy Mazuras to take into account the number 1133 of his authorship. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:35:03]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on a vote to take into account the number 1156 of the Mazurasu People's Deputy. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:35:28]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the people's representative of Mazurash to take into account number 1171. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:35:53]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the National MP Mazurash to take into account the number 1173 of his authorship. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:36:20]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the People's Deputy Mazuras to take into account number 1207 of his authorship. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:36:45]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And I'm voting on the proposal of the People's Deputy Mazuras to take into account the amendment number 1402 of his authorship. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:37:10]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Please, Mazurash.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u70	Amendments: 1403, 1404, 1484, 1484, 1485, 1533, 1538, 1541 and 1545. Six minutes, please, and let's take them into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u71	Are we all going to bet?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u72	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u73	Please, 6 minutes Mazurash.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u74	George Mazurashu, Servant of the People, 203 District. Now I'm going to tell you a few more cases from our citizens that we're going to help, help, and otherwise create problems, and what they've caused, you're going to find out. For example, one young boy, even a young man, was at the time when the war started in the 14th year, he lived in Luhansk, had to move to the capital, worked in the service area. Then the rasists came from that side, he moved on to Western Ukraine, worked on it, found a job, worked in the service area, a cook. And that's where we started looking at jobs. "military heroes" began looking for jobs that would be forced into the army by threats and coercion. Well, they think it works that way, that if they put someone in the army, they'll protect the country. This guy had to get out. But he worked for a while, you know, in the pay envelope. I mean, we've already done some damage. He worked officially, paid taxes, and benefited the State. Here we cast him into the shadows with the efforts of the military. He was still working on the pay terms in the envelope. Then these tremors started out on the streets, there, when the troopers started running about shamefully everywhere and behind everyone, trying to drive everyone there into the army somehow, TCK and into the army, and he started looking, he got fired, he couldn't even go to work anymore, because just, well, he couldn't. If he felt he could protect the country with a gun in his hand, he would. Just let go. Just hiding where he was. I started looking for ways to get abroad. Finally, he found this option. Of course, there's a fraud behind the bribe. Because he left through the Carpathians with all the paths, as they say. Showed him at some point, waited there for two weeks, showed him when you could cross there, that there were no border guards. He moved to another country. There he surrendered to the authorities, for example, there and then moved to another country, where he is already working to return the 6,000 euros he paid to go abroad in order to, in principle, exercise the constitutional right of every Ukrainian citizen to leave Ukraine freely. But at this time these constitutional rights are violated in violation of the Constitution, by the way. What did we do good? I mean, in principle, if we gave him the opportunity to work, he would work here and pay taxes. We just didn't have to nightmare people, we don't have to, and now we have to do it, and we have to embarrass our country. Okay, there wouldn't be a job here, he'd go abroad and donate to the army, because he was still trying to help a little bit through volunteering and other mechanisms. Now he's just working there and he's saving up money to pay back whoever he borrowed to pay 6,000 frauds to get out of the country. Why are we doing this? Why do we force citizens to do so? Second case. The resident of Chernobyl, not from my district, on the other hand, said more patriotic, asked to assist him to leave abroad. I'm saying I don't do it, I don't know how to do it. But he says, I worked before that in Austria, there's a lot of interesting employers there. He says my employers say they're ready to give up six, no, five U.S.S.S. cars ready to go. Thus, Austrian employers were willing to hand over five cars to the U.S.S.S.A., as they said to free their friend from Ukrainian slavery. Imagine how unpleasant it is to hear and listen. But you know what, it's over? It ended up being that the same citizen, of course, had no opportunity to go abroad at this time and work where he worked before he arrived just before he fully invaded the house and could no longer go back to work, he was in the same position for 6,000 euros, but already officially, as he then told me after he had left that he had even been stamped in the passport, had left Austria, and now, of course, he has not much mood and desire to help his home country, which had forced him to spend 6,000 euros in bribes in order to leave the country. Therefore, we need to be more pragmatic and grounded in order to be more effective in resisting racist aggression. Let's communicate with those who have chosen us and authorized us to work in Parliament, what they think about it, what methods they think we need to act in this difficult period, not to engage in emotional Ponts and harm the people and the state as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-07-m0.u75	Let's go to the vote. I'm voting on Mazurash's proposal to take into account his amendment number 1403. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:44:13]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the people's MP Mazurash to take into account the order number 1404. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:44:39]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the national MP, Mazurasu, to take into account the order number 1084. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:45:10]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the people's MP Mazurash to take into account number 1485. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:45:38]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the people's MP Mazurash to take into account number 1533. People's Deputy Mazurashu. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:46:07]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the People's Deputy Mazurash to take into account the number 1538 of his authorship. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:46:35]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I am betting on the vote on the proposal of the National MP Mazurash to take into account the number 1541 of his authorship. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:47:00]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the people's MP Mazurash to take into account the number 1545 of his authorship. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:47:25]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Georgie, that's everyone, isn't it? Great. Dear colleagues, does anyone else have a bill to take into account? Great. Then I'm happy to inform all of us that we've been through all the 1037 adjustments. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your work. I announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. Together to victory! Glory to Ukraine!
