ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today, we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I point out that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 505th day of the powerful resistance of the Ukrainian people in the full-scale military force of the Russian Federation. The heroic defence forces of Ukraine successively and methodically beat the racists out of occupied positions in occupied territories. Eternal glory to all who fight and work for the victory of Ukraine! The cost of fighting for our independence, territorial integrity and democratic values is too high. Remembering the courage and strengths of Ukraine’s defenders and protectors, we will be with them forever. So I ask you to pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of our soldiers who have fallen for Ukraine and its future, of all the peaceful citizens who have died as a result of Russian aggression by the terrorist state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Dear colleagues, on July 6, the House of Representatives of the General States of the Kingdom of the Netherlands adopted a resolution on the recognition of the Holocaust in 1932-1933 by the genocide of the Ukrainian people. I would like to thank our fellow parliamentarians for another step that honors the memory of the millions of victims of the Holocaust and restores legal and historical justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank our delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly for its great work, which resulted in the adoption of the Final Declaration of the Vancouver Session of the Organization, which defines and recognizes Russia as a sponsor of the terrorist “Vagner Group” and its responsibility for sponsoring terrorism. The great colleagues, an important contribution to reconciliation and understanding between the Polish and Ukrainian peoples, were the participation of the delegation I led in the actions in Warsaw devoted to the 80th anniversary of the tragic events in Volina. I am convinced that we must move in a way that is mutual, respectful and considerate of the complex issues of our common history, focusing on today and the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the NATO summit, which has just ended in Vilnius, has certainly brought Ukraine closer to the main goal of membership in the North Atlantic Alliance. Yes, of course, we wanted this time to come as quickly as possible. Because Ukraine, our heroic people, our Defense Forces deserve to be part of the Euro-Atlantic community. So I urge you to continue the hard and self-sustaining work that will necessarily bring the desired result of our victory, Ukraine's membership in the European Union and NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies: Andrija Volodymyrovich Bogdanec, "Slut of the People"; Petr Vasilovich Jurčin, "For the Future"; Anton Volodymyrovich Yatzenka, non-fractional. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, also today's birthday at the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Supreme Authority, Vejacheslav Vasilovich Stucnych. Let us applaud the nouns and thank them for their excellent work at this time. [[Applause]] Thank you, colleagues. We wish them all good health, strength, and as soon as possible victory over Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes' time to the daytime agenda for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Members of the MP factions and groups, please sign up for the performance. Please sign in. Please, Sukhov Alexander Sergiyyovich, Deputy Group "Trust". Your Honor, I understand that, don't I? Please, Reverend.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Sergey the Honourable, Deputy Group of Trust. Dear colleagues, we need to remember that war has lasted for more than a year and a half. During this time, the problem of internally displaced persons is not solved in any way. If, in the period of Crimea annexation and the outbreak of hostilities in Donbasa alone, more than a million VPOs have been officially registered, the number of people now being forced to move through active fighting and the temporary occupation of population sites has increased considerably. The allies welcomed our people, mainly women with children, who are in danger of staying in Ukraine through constant terrorist attacks by the Russian Federation. They try to provide for everything — socialization in the new state, worth paying, housing, employment, and so forth. We have everything in the state, the other way around. Some of the temporaryly occupied areas by military and civilian authorities for the purchase of cars have millions of dollars, and for the construction of permanent housing for the displaced, no. We have no doubt that the entire territory of Ukraine will be liberated. We believe in our protectors. But where can people go back? Take, for example, the city of Pázna Luhanské region, which is considered unfit for living not only by Ukrainian authority but also by terrorists with illegal weapons. It is clear that 20,000 people in the city will not return home. The same is true of Bahmut, Audiwka, and many inhabited areas, especially in Donetsk and Lugansk. People turn to each other all the time, make calls, write on social networks, and our citizens wonder when the state will start implementing complex programs for the VPO. Our partners are investing tens of billions of dollars, and I'm sure if we work more closely on the budget to address the needs of the displaced people, we can optimize certain articles and allocate housing costs to people who have suffered from the RF. Their fate is in our hands. The future of Ukrainian families and their children has survived tremendously, but they have remained faithful to our nation. Now the state has to repay them and make every effort to help the affected citizens. I also thank National Deputy Maxim Tkachenk for the creation of an interfractional UPO-Ukraine MP and all those who have joined in the work and assistance to the displaced. Join the work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Honourable, Deputy Group of Trust.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u3	Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, the Voice faction. Alexander Ustinov. Alexander Yuriovn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, today I honestly believe that there will be one of the historic days of this Supreme Council, because today we have the power to vote on two very important laws. The first is the Medical Cannabis Act. I really want you to hear right now that all the myths that they're telling you about, especially the pro-Russian cast-offs, that's not true. When you hear that Ukraine will be flooded with fields of grass and it will require wheat, sorry, we have to root out lies. I want everyone to know that cannabis worldwide is grown exclusively in greenhouses. So don't listen to all these stories about we having hemp fields. The other one. You know, I'm just going to name a few countries, because all over the world it's allowed, which, along with Ukraine so far, has not legalized it, it's Chad, Cameroon, Algeria, China. You realize that as a country, we are not the third world, but the tenth world we are living in a cave right now, and we are forcing our citizens, our military, to suffer terrible, hellish torments right now, because we are afraid and listening to myths. Let's end this Soviet approach and get on the line with all the civilized countries when we think about people, their pain, not that we're very uncomfortable, because someone told us something. And the second bill that I really want to draw your attention to is Bill 7588 -- the agrarian Academy of Sciences. This is going to be one of the coolest anti-corruption bills this Supreme Council has ever voted on. I'll tell you in two words what it is. Do you know that we now have almost half a million acres of land in the agrarian Academy of Sciences? At the head of this academy of science, there are a lot of criminal conduct. Do you know why? Because all of the state-owned enterprises, all of our academics that are underneath it, are just giving up the land. Let me give you an example. For example, the Institute of Cavalry, where horses are long gone, and thousands of hectares of land have been left to pasture, which have been sown by anything, and it's not the state that gets the money, it's the owner or the director of this agrarian enterprise. So let's make sure that this money is given to the state through ProZorro and that we can spend this money on the army instead of filling the pockets of the corrupts who will cover this further mess. I very much ask each of you to support this bill, because it is necessary, as it is now. Excuse me, half a million acres of land is five Kievs. You can imagine this area, how much money. It's millions of dollars running past our budget now in the pocket, which then comes to the Supreme Council and convinces MPs not to vote for it. Don't tell me you didn't know, you have a question. Take my word for it, it'll be one of the top anti-corruption reforms if we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u5	The word is given to the National Deputy of Dmitruk Artem Hennadiovich, a deputy group of "Resurrection of Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, the distinguished Ukrainian people! In a few days, Ukraine will mark the 33rd anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine. This basic document laid the foundation for our declaration of independence. It is an integral part of our nation’s creation. At the same time, individual standards were adjusted by life itself. Today, every Ukrainian wonders whether we could have prevented war if we had not given up nuclear weapons in 1994. It was in the Declaration that we declared compliance with three nonnuclear principles. But history does not know the conditional way. But we have to make other adjustments. I remind you that the Ukrainian declaration stated that in the future, there was a permanent neutral state that did not participate in military blocs. During our time of independence, the official Kyiv demonstrated peace - lovingness and was by no means a threat to his neighbors and other nations around the world. This did not prevent the Russian Federation from going to war in 2014 and then to Ukraine in 2022. We completely share the thesis that we must not be neutral with evil and defend ourselves against it. The collective security system has no alternative, which is why the course for Euro-Atlantic integration of its time has been introduced into the Ukrainian Constitution. The powers of the Supreme Council directly record the implementation of the state's strategic course for obtaining full membership of Ukraine in NATO. Yesterday, the Alliance’s two - day summit ended in Vilnius. As a state, we are not going to lose momentum in internal transformations and reforms. The decisions taken are entirely the political responsibility of the Alliance. Security is one of the essential elements of Ukraine’s restoration. The consolidation of the world around the postwar reconstruction of our nation continues. We work together to win! We're working for recovery! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u7	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Zagradnoi Jury Ivanovich, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace". Please. Pass it on. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, the Ukrainian people! The President of Ukraine, in determining the priorities of state policy, one of them defined the right of every child who lost their parents' right to education, to increase in the family environment, to say clearly, "Ukraine is not for the internet!".. And I'm convinced that in this room, each of the national MPs supports the political will that the President of Ukraine is today demonstrating in the area of protecting children who are without parental care. At the same time, it is possible to achieve the stated goal in unifying and professional work and in Parliament and in the Cabinet of Ministers, executive power and local self - government. Moreover, this is relevant in connection with the large - scale war that is taking place in our territory and the crimes that a Russian aggressor commits in relation to the Ukrainian family, the Ukrainian child. An even greater request for family forms of parenting will be made in the postwar period. The Supreme Council is active in responding to the changes to legislation to the challenges facing the country, and I stress in the first place, and I am asking you to sign the Law, which was adopted here by the constitutional majority, 7087, because it is this law, as well as a whole range of other decisions of the Supreme Council, that determine the structure, tasks and possibilities of how to reach each child today, how to protect it. Instead, we see the serious inaction of responsible officials in the government to protect children’s rights. It feels like they're doing it the other way around. As a result of low professional training, primarily in the case of members of the Ministry of Health, failure to coordinate the activities of various authorities reduces the number of foster families, reduces the number of children in the family by more than 10 percent each year, reduces the number of children in the family, and reduces the number of statuses given, regardless of the fact that the problem exists. And there are many other problems today for every child who loses his or her parents. That is why once again I call for professional decisions, clear mandates at the local and central levels. War adds both quality requirements and the deadline for making decisions. A convinced, active position of Parliament to force the government to carry out the President's task is a guarantee of protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u9	Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, group, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, without exaggeration, in recent days, the attention of the civilized world and its uncivilized part has been attached to the NATO Vilnius Summit. The Vilnius summit, we hope, will bring Ukraine closer to membership in the North Atlantic Alliance, not by diplomatic words, but by real steps, because in fact, Ukraine is making too much sacrifices over its period of independence, relying on high guarantees, and instead losing some of its sovereignty as a result of the Russian occupation. We will not mention the Budapest Memorandum or the expectation of the 2008 Bucharest Summit, this time in the past, in history. Europe didn't want to think there could be a military invasion. Apparently, there is an even greater fear of the outbreak of hostilities. But we cannot continue to study European capitals according to the Cyrillic alphabet: Budapest, Bucharest, Vilnius. Because that's the way countries are, and people might not happen. We want to remind you that NATO was created to protect Europe from Soviet interference, then Russian potential and real intervention. And Ukraine is protecting Europe today with its fighters on the front. By protecting ourselves, we defend European values -- freedom and democracy. For us and for the soldiers, these are not empty words. Many of our citizens may view the absence of a direct invitation to NATO as a continuation of war, a war of exhaustion and a reduction in human resources. We hope that this is not so, and NATO sees Ukraine in this organization, and it wants to end this war with the heroic efforts of our soldiers, not to freeze it, and then to end the war for an inexplicable future. Because Russia and its savage methods cannot fix or cure any international structure, as we see it. Then Russia itself in its present status and borders cannot be cured or self - cured. After the war is over, we believe that joining NATO is not an inevitable prize, but a necessity, including for the North Atlantic Alliance itself. We are grateful to our allies, who have actively insisted on the need for a direct invitation to NATO today. We are equally grateful to all those who do not stop but extend military and technical and financial assistance to Ukraine in violent opposition to the aggressor. It was also a great effort by the President of Ukraine that NATO became closer to us and the debate on the introduction had its hot phase. We also believe that Ukraine has taken many steps to begin the process of joining the European Union. And we hope that this year the European Commission will take real steps and make a direct move on its active turn. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u11	Heroic glory! Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Black Egor Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please, Yegor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! A historic summit for Ukraine just ended in Vilnius. NATO has taken a practical and confident course towards integrating our country into its ranks. Thanks to our joint efforts, the efforts of the Supreme Council, the efforts of the government and, above all, President Vladimir Zelensky, we have received the result we have. We got almost everything we asked for, but, as they say, you want to get what you need, ask for what you need. What's almost impossible. We need to understand what the NATO warlord is going to ask today, but we have to do our homework to get the same "yes" in Washington next year at the next summit. But today's summit, we can certainly call it the best, the most effective in the last 15 years. We've been agreed to enter without VAT, without unnecessary bureaucracy. We've got security assurances, we've got new weapons, we've got support for the Greens formula, the Greens peace formula. We have received agreement on specific steps toward our membership. It's all a result of our work together, but it's too early to relax. We need to make our reforms, we need to become more integrated into NATO through practical steps. And that's what we're going to do. And that's why I'm asking you: this year, which will be the next summit, just to activate and implement all the necessary reforms that will open the way for us to NATO. And our partners are definitely waiting for us there. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u13	Please give the word to Pavel Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Peter Alexiovich, do I understand? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! The whole country had been hoping for the result of Vilnius for the last two days. I don't see where the obvious victory was found by those who claim that Vilnius was very good for Ukraine. Unfortunately, yesterday's Vilnius was very similar to Vilnius in the 13th year when Ukraine did not sign the Association Agreement, and I signed it right after the election, and now I don't get a well-deserved invitation to NATO, even though the Ukrainian Armed Forces are defending the NATO eastern flank. Not Parliament, not the President, not the office, not the government. And the only ones who made that contribution were the Armed Forces of Ukraine. They're fighting better than any other NATO country. Unfortunately, the summary document of Vilnius 23 is a 2008 copy of Bucharest. The application for "seven" is like an exclusive protocol of intent. Whoever wants to see it is missing the word "guarantee." The only thing there is, is the beginning of consultations in case there's a future war. I know how I conducted these consultations in the 14th year. And we can't do that again. We don't need to talk about open doors. If the door's open, let us in. If you don't let us in, it means that the door is closed and you tell the truth. But we have to thank our partners for the weapons, the long-range missiles, the E-Defense. Without them, it would be much harder. And secondly, it grieves the argument that unfolds around the summit. Some go to power, others go to extreme Biden. Who is to blame is to be found out after the war, and now we have to prepare for the Washington summit in a year because it was not Byden’s assignment of Tatar, Duma, to provide corruption for 36 billion. The only thing we have in the family is reform: judicial reform, the protection of democracy, including parliamentary, respect for human rights and the protection of the media, freedom of the media, is our responsibility. Thank you and glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u15	Dear colleagues. Please, from Fatherland, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, you could not help noticing that a few weeks ago, a decree had been issued on the Cabinet of Ministers to eliminate the third Chernobyl zone. So that's the third area where people who have suffered from the Chernobyl accident, where there's polluted land, polluted water, and they have little benefits legally in the third zone. What kind of benefits are these? Free diets for children in kindergartens and schools are little higher pensions to treat people who are very ill in this area. There are virtually no benefits there. But it is in order to save money in the budget that polluted radiation areas will be declared clean, beautiful, and that people there can live and collect from people the last coins that the state owes to these people under the Constitution. That's why we raised this question a little bit, and we thank all the members of the Supreme Council who joined this work and from the Cabinet of Ministers, the draft of this decision was withdrawn. Now they've actually stalled this story, and it's like they're not going to touch the third zone of Chernobyl, but you can't believe it. That's why we've put in a motion for a decree that provides to ban the Cabinet of Ministers from touching the third Chernobyl zone, not to deprive people of those copies, not to do things that aren't fair, especially during the war, because virtually the third Chernobyl area, mostly located near the borders with the enemy. And there now, they've moved into the Wagnerian pack, and that means that people who live practically near the border, they're excited, they're nervous, they've gone out to cover up the Warsaw fight, they just didn't expect it to happen, after the third Chernobyl zone was canceled, during the war. And so, I'm asking the Hall now, I'm asking the Chief of the Supreme Council to introduce that draft of the Order that's registered into the Hall that forbids viewing the borders of the Third Chernobyl Zone. And to show people here, not only do they take everything away from Ukraine, but they also protect people, even if they do, according to the laws that already exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions, a break with a replacement for the performance. Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! The "Trust" MP fully confirms the thesis that the state of war is a priority for the whole state. For the President, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, there must be issues of national security, defense, support for our defenders. At the same time, we strongly deny that when the Ukrainian government brings up the issue of haste, not thought out, but, frankly, the antisocial issues that today can stir society, it causes negative social issues. And as I've discussed with my colleagues, I firmly confirm that the MP's "Trust" versus the Cabinet of Ministers' Decision, which is a very tangible and mechanical proposal to reduce the number of population points in radioactive pollution areas. This is a very simplistic approach. We insist, our "Trust" group, first, to take an urgent decision that imposes a moratorium on government action. Once again, hasty, legally unfounded. The other one. I'm calling on the Supreme Council's profile committees, the Committee on Social Policy, Ecology, Environmental Management, to get all the experts on board immediately, and to see what is at the top of the agenda for today's review of Chernobyl legislation. That we, together with the government, can offer people not to make their social rights worse, not to narrow down the guarantee that they are in line with the law in force, and at the same time to establish the issue of social justice. Because I agree that if a person who has not lived in the territories comes and the court decides he can get a higher pension, and local citizens who have not lived for years are really unfair. But these issues need to be addressed professionally, using the experience that has already been done in all previous years. That's why I call upon, my fellow Members, my deputies, all those who, and who signed practically under the draft decree, all the factions and political groups today, especially I'm addressing you with distinguished colleagues of greatness, depending on you today. Let us work carefully with the government and make decisions that will benefit both people and the law. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u19	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, Olena Kostvena from the Presidium, and then we're moving on to the day-to-day issues, please prepare. Please, Olena Kostvena.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, we are discussing today and taking stock of the summit in Vilnius, and we have already seen the tremendous work that we should be doing here in the walls of Parliament, preparing for the next summit in Washington. But today I also want to draw your attention to a very urgent question that we should always look after and deal with. This is the subject of the return of our children who are forcibly deported to the Russian Federation. Since we've been meeting here in this room for the last time, thanks to the office of the Ombudsman of ours, I wanted to thank him today, to return his brother and sister, that is, two children whose mother was in captivity for six months whose father died protecting Mariupol. It's a very difficult subject for us. I want to remind you that now on the official portal, which is looking after the return of children, which is called "Children of War," is now deporting 19,000 474 children. In fact, only 383 children were returned by underground methods. But I want to emphasize that we must continue to support each other and deal with this subject in every way possible and on any of the courses that we have with you within parliamentary diplomacy to be. I have also recently returned from an international conference in Poland, attended by 13 international parliaments and representatives of parliaments, we have been able to raise this subject, to call on the OSCE to draw its resolution to this issue: condemning the actions of the Russian Federation on children. I wanted to thank our parliamentary delegation in Vancouver in the OSCE today, which also led to an appropriate OSCE resolution. I would like to thank our parliamentary delegations at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the European Parliament for the relevant resolutions that have been adopted by condemning the action of the Russian Federation and bringing the issue back to Ukraine. I would also like to point out that we should expand our capacity in parliamentary diplomacy on this issue, and we have a BRICS summit in South Africa, an East Asian summit in Indonesia. I ask all of you to join me in this. I would also like to thank Nobel laureate Alexandre Matviychuk, who has already addressed the President of South Africa on the pages of The Sandy Times, and urged him to stand firm against the mass abduction of children and not accept the international criminal Putin in the country. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that Parliament has joined the work of the Coordinating Council for the Protection and Security of Children, by order of the President, I have been added to this list. I would like to ask you all once again, to make every effort to get our children back, to keep talking, to keep asking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u21	Thank you, Olena Kostvena. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. But before we move forward, honourable national deputies, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I propose that a signal vote be held before the issue is considered. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. Please take part in the signal vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:46]] For 239. The solution. God, what a "decision taken," I'm sorry. For 239, 5 against, 5 against. Rough days, nothing, friends. Thank you. Once again, I appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, which was decided in Parliament sooner than an hour after the end of our work. Dear National Deputies, a list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, are given to you. Let us go to his consideration. So the first question is Bill 8392. This is a draft Act amending certain legislation on the application of sanctions. It's a second reading. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed that there would be a three-minute performance by the Fatherland faction, Vlasenko, and then we vote. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. And then we vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u22	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. The Fatherland faction unquestionably supports all the bills that relate to the use of sanctions against those who organize and contribute to the armed aggression of the Russian Federation and Belarus against Ukraine. So, of course, the Fatherland faction supports all the legislative work that is being done in this sessional room. In addition, the proposed bill contains one position that gives us certain, I'd say, reflections. The point is that a register of sanctions is transmitted to the Department of National Security and Defence. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Security and Defence Council is an advisory body with the President, a registration authority. They're not authorized to keep any registers. Their constitutional mandate is to advise the President and recommend that the President make decisions. That's why we in the "Fatherland" faction believe that a register of sanctions is necessarily necessary, but it should be run by either the executive authorities, such as the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, or the Ukrainian Security Service, which is essentially a state authority that initiates most of those sanctions that are applied by the President's decrees on the basis of the decision of the National Security and Defence Council. And once again, with all due respect to the National Security Council as the body that advises the President, I don't understand what an NSAO machine is like a registration agency that keeps a register, keeps a register, fills a register and uses a register? Unfortunately, the RNBO itself does not fully understand its role, because we have a representative of the PNB Office at a meeting of the PNB Office of Profiles who said that they are the same as the Ministry of Justice. Unfortunately, this simply indicates the professional level of the person who represented the PRRA at the meeting of the profile committee. So I would like to point out once again that the "Fatherland" faction unquestionably supports legislation related to sanctions. We support this bill, too. However, we have warnings regarding the organization of implementation of this law and the distribution of functions in the State. Each authority in the State must perform the functions for which it was created. And an RNB should advise the President and be a strategic body, not a register holder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this bill. I ask the people's deputies to take their seats, we move to a vote, to a decision from this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the application of sanctions (registration number 8392). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:49:51]] For 314 Against-0, held-1. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, I've come from two factions: a break with a replacement for the performance. I understand that, Zinkewich, right? Out of the way, please. Oh, not from the place? She's Vadimovna, then please. Please, Jan Vadimovna Zinkevich, three minutes. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. There's a man standing before you on an important bill. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u24	Good afternoon. Today, I, Jan Zinkevich, a veteran of combat, want to talk to you about an important law, the cannabis law. It's extremely relevant right now. I'm speaking to you as a disabled person, as a person who's got four injuries, as a man who's been hit by ten cranial-brain traumas in a collision with another combat vehicle, as a man who's now broken even in a wheelchair with two legs. Every day I suffer pain, terrible pain, unbearable pain, pain. I don't know who I want to cry to. Every day in our country, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands suffer each day. They got PTSD, they got some combat injuries, they got civilian injuries, that's not the difference. We also need to understand each of us who are now from us. Our decision is to decide the fate of these people, the fate of people who are already willing to buy illegally, to do something, to move on to drugs, whatever we want, and to do everything we can to gain the only pain. Because when you live with one of these, every second you think about it. I overcome myself by working in our benches, working for Ukraine, making my battalion "Gospitalieri" and working on it every single day, but every second gives me a lot of weight. And that's why, from our patients, from our friends, which is a large number, we've unfortunately had over a million and a half veterans, I'm asking you to vote in favour of this law. Yes, he's a bit imperfect right now, but a lot of factions, I know they said they'd take their amendments into account, and as a member of the Health Committee, I'm sure I'll also help them take them into account. Therefore, my request and the request of patients today to uphold this law and not to ignore it, even if it is now imperfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, I understand, another statement came from two factions with a replacement for the performance. Julius Volodymyrno Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u26	Dear friends, you must not listen to Mrs. Jana’s speech without pain. And I want to tell everyone in this room right now that our faction is definitely using drugs that are made from marijuana, cannabis, hashish, I don't know what you call it, we're definitely using these drugs. And the fact that the country is not using these drugs today is a major fault for the government of Ukraine. Let me explain why. I now have Order 324 on the legalization of cannabis-based drugs in my hands. Two drugs: Nabilone based on cannabis and Nabiximols is a standardized cannabis extract with the same TC and cannabis content. These two drugs were legalized on April 7, 21. I also have a message in my hands here in the Ukrainian truth since April 9, 21st -- a medical cannabis was legalized in Ukraine. I have a question. First. Why does the government, if we need cannabis drugs and they're needed, not bring, except for two other drugs, 20 more that treat our soldiers, pain those people who can't survive, unpurchased by the government's decree? Since we were 21, we have legalized medical marijuana, remember that. It's very important to know. And now from this rostrum, I demand a report from Schmidt, Laska and everyone who's involved in this, that since the 21st year, they haven't bought any drugs for our soldiers, which are painkillers for oncological patients, for children with epilepsy. Who will be responsible? The law that we're talking about right now is the so-called "legalization" of marijuana is a law to turn Ukraine into a drug plantation for drug cultivation. This is not about medical marijuana. I think the government has to resign for not buying marijuana drugs for painkillers, including our military. And this law is not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, we're moving on to this very bill. You are being reviewed by the Bill of Registration number 7457, on regulating the circulation of cannabis plants (Cannabis) in medical, industrial, scientific and scientific and technical activities to create conditions to increase patients' access to the necessary treatment of cancer and post-traumatic stress disorders resulting from the war. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed on this procedure: to give up to 3 minutes for a speech by the Ukrainian Minister of Health, as well as a time of up to 24 minutes for speeches by MPs and groups, up to 3 minutes for each performance. So I put to the vote a procedure of discussion agreed upon by the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues, please support this procedure. Please vote. [[12:58:34]] For 296 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. So let's move on to the question. For the report on Bill 7457, U.S. Health Minister Viktor Kirilovich Ljashka gives the floor to the Ukrainian Minister of Health. Please, Victor Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u28	Thank you. Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! Recently, speaking here in the Supreme Council, Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky stressed that all best world practices, decisions, however complex or unusual they may be, must be applied in Ukraine so that all Ukrainian citizens do not have to suffer the pain, stress and trauma of war. In particular, we have to finally legalize honestly for all who need it, cannabis-based drugs. Nearly 65 percent of Ukrainians participated in the survey and supported the use of cannabis for medical purposes. Indeed, access to cannabis-based drugs is a realization of their right to medical care. Germany, France, Britain, the United States, Canada, Poland, among the 56 countries in the world where cannabis is currently permitted. This is about the countries of Europe, North America for which access to modern medical decisions, treatments and medicines is the same civilized choice as support for Ukraine, its independence and freedom. In 2019, following the recommendations of the United Nations International Narcotics Control Committee, which highlighted the need to ensure access to drugs, we started discussions with you on how to use cannabis drugs. There are numerous round tables, medical meetings, and a power block to make a compromise. Then, as an example, personal patient history was cited, for which we could not find the answer and provide the right level of medical care. Today, unfortunately, there are millions of such people, and we cannot afford to delay. I emphasize that it's not about a certain legalization of something today, it's about the medical use of cannabis-based drugs. Tetrahydrocannabinol will not reach free volume, and its use will be severely controlled. To that end, in November 2022 the Ministry of Health introduced an electronic prescription for narcotic drugs as a mandatory recipe, otherwise no drug can be purchased in the country today. Today, there is sufficient scientific evidence that cannabis treatment is effective in the treatment of more than 50 pathological conditions. The possibility and relevance of cannabis - based drugs should not be manipulated for medical purposes, for this is the life and quality of patients, such as multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, and many others. It is possible to finally have a healthy sleep and rest for people with chronic pain.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u29	Thank you. Thank you, Victor Kirilovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the representatives of the MPs and groups to sign up for this statement only those factions who wish to speak and the groups. Please sign up. Please, Bulah Lada Valentinovna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u30	With all my heart's support, I give the word Anastasia Radinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u31	Please, Anastasia Olegna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u32	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm not addressing you today as head of the anti-corruption committee, I'm addressing you, colleagues, as a patient. Patients like me, millions of people are people with oncology, they're people with Alzheimer's, they're people with epilepsy. It's hundreds of thousands of our wounded, which every day, I, they, we, we need painkillers every day, we need cures for nausea, we need medicines to reduce the frequency of attacks. Were you trying to drink boredom pills when you were bored? They don't usually talk about it from the Supreme Council's rostrum, but I'll tell you what I need to talk about is it's very, very difficult to do. For us today, Ukraine has established the Middle Ages, we are forced to or sit on opioids, colleagues who need to increase the dose at which we have to be at risk for life, or suffer pain, boredom, and have no opportunity to live our lives with a quality of life. I very much ask you, colleagues, to take a step today and allow us to legalize. Allow us legal pain, please. This bill does not allow you to buy drugs with medical cannabis everywhere, there is an opportunity to buy drugs only by prescription. There's no way to grow these drugs at home, you're being lied to, the circulation and the cultivation, according to this bill, is being severely controlled. Colleagues, you say this can be done by the Cabinet. I'm telling you how a patient is a lie! You're lying! Kabmin's ruling allowed two drugs that are in the world, only two drugs, you know how much they cost? They cost 200 bucks, I'm sorry, they cost 400 bucks. To say that there is a legalized medical cannabis in the Cabinet Order is to lie to patients, there will be no treatment available. Now, colleagues, you're saying that you're worried that you're in favour of an aesthetic, but you're concerned that this is a growing bill. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support me on your first reading. If you know how to spend medicine for patients without growing production in Ukraine, suggest this. I'm ready to sit with you and do this mechanism, suggest, but allow me a legal, civilized aesthetic. Now, colleagues, you're saying that you're worried that the state won't be able to control the circulation and there'll be a surge of drug abuse. And I can hear you, colleagues, but I beg you to listen to the patients, and I'll tell you how patients hear that phrase. Patients hear that the state is sneezing at us, that the state is unable to carry out its responsibility to control drugs, that the state is not even going to try and translate its problem into us. And what we do, we have to pay for the state's inability to do something with its pain.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u33	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u34	The disease does not interfere with our children’s drug addiction to push, I hope. Dear friends, what I want to tell you is that it's very, very scary that oncological patients, that our military, our sick epileptic children don't get marijuana-based drugs. Today we had Mr. Lazko, Minister of Health at the faction. I asked him a simple question, I say, Mr. Minister, why didn't you follow Mr. Schmigal's Order 324 and buy two painkillers made from marijuana? You know what he said to me, he said that they weren't registered, and I say that's how he registers the MOH, and he says that manufacturers didn't come to register their drugs. You have any idea what we're dealing with. I asked him a question. I say, Mr. Minister, why didn't you put in that decree about 50 marijuana drugs that you can buy right away and give to people right away? And he said it just wasn't that idea to bring it in. And you know what else he said? He said that in order for this law that you want to adopt today on growing, processing, selling, practically on the drug business in the country. I asked, and when there's medicine to give people pain, he said, about three or four years. You tell me what? It's a violation. It's just destruction, you know, common sense. And that's why I think that both this minister and Schmigal have to resign because they didn't register marijuana-based painkillers and others, they didn't buy them, they didn't turn them over to our military for free in order to extend this law that they want to vote on today -- the legalisation of the drug industry in Ukraine. Unlike many others in other countries, there is no restriction on TCCs in dry plants, no limit on the number of hectares they grow, no limit on how much such raw material is needed at all, nothing. It's an open door where we're going to turn Ukraine into essentially a plantation for narcotic marijuana. I want to go to all of you right now, get the drugs now, not after four years, and don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u35	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Of course, the bill that we are currently considering is one of the most sensitive to society. He provokes many different thoughts. And today we hear them, we hear them outside, outside the walls of the Supreme Council. That's why the "Trust" MP group, of course, sets out key points for itself, as well as influence our decision in the vote. And the situation today is, of course, those questions that raise our defenders, our soldiers, our military personnel, those who have been injured, who are potentially today and morally and physically suffering, and who are waiting for drugs that can calm the body and soul. Of course, the opinion of medical professionals is of great importance to us. Today, the minister made his point quite clearly and specifically that it was the medical community that saw the adoption of the bill. From the number of thoughts that sounded "against," and those who say that tomorrow the country will turn into mass poppy, there's opium no, I don't know, cannabis crops and so on, I want to bring you back to the events of six years ago, when the social media published what was going on in the Odessa, Herson areas, when the huge hemp crops were fenced with wooden fences and under the cover of local authorities, police or law enforcement, which were then condemned for all of these acts. Isn't that how it happened? There was. Is that true today? Let's think about it from the point of view of law enforcement. But this process has to be under control, and it has to be for the benefit of the state and the people. So our group will keep a close eye on how to read the second reading, whether the standards that apply to 24-hour continuous video surveillance with the recording of this area of these crops will be met. Will there be sufficient supervision of the preservation of the cultivated product, qualified personnel? Holidays in pharmacies should also be controlled by a special form and electronic recipe. And these questions that colleagues have been talking about today, we need to work on the second reading. We will vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u37	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Shevchenk Evgen Volodymyrovich, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u38	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I mean, everyone in this law has nothing to do with it, everybody's doing their job, you can see it in the hall. And the bill is very cutting for society. I know these speeches won't change anything. Everyone has already convinced himself whether he will vote or not. By the way, the microphones could be changed a little bit, 21 years old, and we have 19th-century microphones. So these statements, they look so formal. What can a deputy talk about? What we want is to accept it, and to convince society that it's necessary for medical applications, yes, there is such a moment, it's true. But I think there's a little bit of another behind this, and then there's another way. And one day the cannabis in Ukraine will be in free circulation at all. I'm in favour of legalizing cannabis, by the way. It is, and people not only use it for medical purposes but simply play with it. So I have a question: what's the difference between cigarettes, tobacco, vodka (water, rusticate) and marijuana? It doesn't matter. I'm in charge of having freedom in the country, and let him decide for himself what to do with his mouth: vodka or marijuana or cigarettes. It's every single thing. I think we need to get rid of this owl that lives in all of us. And those against the vote are for that owl, for the extension of that owl. I stand for a free country, because only freedom can convince us all and be the engine of civilization in this world. And the state should not raise society. Society itself is being raised: there are moralists, there is a church, there are other people doing it, there are psychologists, and there are other people doing it. First of all, they're parents, parents of children. If someone fears for his child, let him just raise his child better and keep an eye on him so that he does not go anywhere. And hiding an adult society is why I find it inappropriate. It is time for the country and people, especially the State, to become adults. So I'm for the freedom of everything that people can afford and for getting rid of that owl. Whoever votes against is the one for the owl. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u39	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u40	Please give it to Olga Stefanish.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u41	Please, Olga Stefanisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, today we have a lot of emotional performances and Jan Zinkevich told you about physical pain, and I'll tell you about psychological pain. I think everyone here knows my story and knows that one day suddenly a Russian mine killed my husband. I'd like you to stop talking in the hall. May I have your attention, colleagues? I understand that there are important things. And you know, when the whole world turns around, you can't eat, you can't sleep, you can't talk, you can just cry for many, many weeks. And you know, I'm not alone in this country. Most people today have lost relatives or loved ones because they were killed by a gun. And these people have no opportunity to relieve their pain, just as it was not meant to relieve their pain. And I just don't understand that someone who didn't survive it probably doesn't understand, but I came out here to tell you, please do a very important good thing today for 6 million Ukrainians. They're all watching what you're doing today. Please vote for this law for us, for all who suffer today from war, oncology, other diseases. I will personally be very grateful to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u43	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Ion's Maria Mikolayovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please, Princess Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u44	Friends, each of us has had complex family experiences. I remember my father dying of cancer, and we stabbed him with morphine because there were no other drugs. Obviously, cannabis is needed in medicine. Obviously, it is necessary to allow it to be used. Obviously, this is a government matter, because the law does not prohibit it, and instead of introducing two drugs on corruption grounds into the list of restricted drugs, more had to be done. If there's no money in the patient, who forbids us from budgeting these drugs for patients to buy, make up for at least a fraction? We are obliged to do so. Instead, it is quite different. We've created one corruption in the purchase of authorised cannabis drugs, now in the law we're proposing another corruption. What does this law offer? In fact, he offers to cultivate drugs or marijuana and cannabis in Ukraine without control. Look at how we grow tobacco and how we sell it, under strict control. See how we use alcohol under strict control. And this control has two reasons. First of all, that's the tax reason. How many times have people come from this rostrum who say they don't pay taxes to representatives who grow tobacco there, so no one even from the tax point of view of cannabis cultivation is going to control it, and more than that, no one is going to control it from a medical point of view, they're just offering to grow cannabis freely in the country. The question is: Should we do this? I'll tell you a paradoxical story. Yes, I am for Ukraine to produce its own drugs for cannabis use, but in a civilized way, as civilized countries do: under the strict control of the state, under the control of state representatives, with proper markings, all of this can be done. But this is not what we want to do by covering up the grief of people who have not decided to make Ukraine an uncontrollable cannabis plantation. Well, that's ridiculous. Yes, there are positive standards, such as what is allowed to grow technical hemp, it needs to be resolved. I understand with heartache anyone who wants to vote in favour of this law, hoping for improvement. Guys, he won't be here. I have great respect for everyone who votes against it because they don't want to turn Ukraine into a drug plantation. We'll vote differently. If it does, then European Solidarity will do its utmost to ensure that in the second reading, our amendments, which prohibit uncontrolled cultivation and provide for patients, are accepted. Otherwise, to turn Ukraine into cannabis plantation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies, please prepare. I'm asking everyone to take their seats, colleagues. Take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a draft law, registration number 7457, regulating the circulation of cannabis plants (Cannabis) for medical, industrial, scientific and technical activities to create conditions for expanding patients' access to the necessary treatment of cancer and post-traumatic stress disorders resulting from the war. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[13:23:05]] For 268. Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, next bill 94. The only colleagues, I ask you very much, we agreed an hour after the meeting of the Supreme Council. So if someone's already tempted the devil to do this right now, please look away and follow the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Yes, and, Minister, I ask the same in the government. I ask that the government not communicate such things until the conclusion of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, 9437. This is a draft Act amending Appendix No.3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023. I'm proposing to include it in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:24:38]] For 297 Decision taken. I propose to define this Bill 9437 as an urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of the consideration of the issue. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:25:07]] For 292 Decision taken. I'm asking you to consider this with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:25:29]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Then write it down: two in, two in, two in. Please, Kowalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Mikiti Poturayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u47	Please, Mikita Ruslanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, this bill has been drafted in accordance with the Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 26. 11.21 "On measures in connection with the 1990s of Holodomor 32-33 years in Ukraine – the genocide of the Ukrainian people", the Ukrainian Act of 2006 "On the Holodomor 1932-1933 years in Ukraine", decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers and other normative acts. I won't take much time. You know, colleagues who have now declared the Holodomor of 1932-1933 in Ukraine a genocide of the Ukrainian people by the 32 countries of the world and the European Parliament. This tragedy does not leave the apathy of many countries in Latin and North America, Europe, and the East. It motivates foreign delegations from different countries to visit our country and learn more about the events, the terrible and terrible events that took place during the Soviet times and in fact the Soviet occupation of Ukraine 90 years ago. The adoption of this law will allow, colleagues, to finally complete the implementation of the first line project of the Goldilocks Museum in its entirety. So I ask you very much to support this, understanding that now war, realizing that there is not enough money now, but we must demonstrate that even though we have all the difficulties and difficulties that we now have, we do not forget to properly honor the memory of the millions who have died by the hands of the Russian invaders of the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u49	Please, Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u50	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we are now considering a bill relating to Ukrainian memory, the memory of the Holocaust, the genocide of the Ukrainian people, which was organized by the Communist cannibal regime, when millions of Ukrainians were destroyed by starving to death on a fertile land where bread could always be grown and could always be fed not only by Ukraine but also by many other countries. Our business as a parliament is indeed, if necessary, to provide the necessary funds to complete the building of a memorial in Kiev, the Memorial of the Holocaust. This is a very long building, and I think it would have been long before governments, these governments, previous governments, could have a memorial in the capital where international delegations could really be invited, especially those countries that recognize the Holocaust as genocide of the Ukrainian people at parliament level. And this is a matter of great importance for the whole world to know that Ukraine is suffering not only from this eastern beast now but from centuries of suffering, for that is where all the greatest troubles for our people came from. So our task is to perpetuate the memory of those who no longer exist, to prevent the recurrence of such crimes in the future, to win this war, and to forever cut off any ties with Moscow that has brought nothing good but misery to Ukraine. We vote in favour of this law. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u51	Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u52	Thank you, Mr. Head. Of course, we will support this proposal, but in this wartime, there may be other priorities for this particular period. But if the government and our respective colleagues insist on such changes to the budget, our group will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u53	Please, Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of European Solidarity. Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u54	Dear Mr. Head, as the head of the All-U.S. Memorial of Vasil Stus, I want to say that this bill needs to be supported in both the first and the second readings. State policy results when it does not serve and does not change into an agreement of narrow party interests. We have seen this in recent months, not only in Ukraine's support of the war with Russia, but in the recognition of the Holocaust by the genocide of the Ukrainian people. The bitter truth is that if it were not for war, the world would continue to ignore the recognition of Holodomor as one of the greatest crimes of the 20th century genocide. But the truth is, if it weren't for President Yashchenk's dedication to this subject, there would no longer be 33 countries that have recognized the Holocaust. The truth is, if the Ukrainian public, after the Dignity Revolution, did not turn to power and receive the support of President Dustenk and the government, the requirement to rebuild the building that is being carried out today. Ukraine is on its way to the completion of the first museum in the world, the modern world-class museum complex, involving the best scientific, architectural, designer forces in Ukraine and the world. It is also true that President Zelensky, and today the Supreme Council, contributed to the maintenance of the bill. Our primary responsibility now is by no means to lose the pace of building a museum, not to lose the quality of the building itself, especially the exposure of the truth to design and installation that still needs a period of time. The term similar museums is not simple and long - term. We also honor the memory of the Supreme Council in November at 90 C.E. The project, the installation of the exhibition, is the faction itself asking for support in the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let's move on to acceptance. Excuse me, Ruddick, yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, it happened that in 2007-2010, as deputy of Kiev's city head, I took care of this issue in the city and fought against the symbols of totalitarianism. At the same time, we honored the victims of Holodomor, and in Kiev there were monuments that were essentially beaten, three leaders of the Soviet Ukraine: Kosiore, Petrovsky, and Chubar. I was shocked, I learned that the second part of the memorial we were about to build, it had been 13 years since I left that post. 13. We have allocated billions of funds to stadiums, remember the price, and at the Memorial of the Victims of Holodomor, we still cannot allocate funds. We're all voting for it! And we make sure that the money is not stolen, for the memory of those who died for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u57	Dear colleagues. Ah, the Bacon still. I'm sorry, I'd like you to mark it sometime. Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u58	Thank you, Mr. Head! The Kremlin regime has been trying for centuries to destroy our loving Ukrainian people, and it is certainly today when it is possible to take a step to commemorate the memories of those Ukrainians who gave their lives to those who are innocently murdered for having been with you today in our native Ukrainian state. It is also important that we begin to build the Pantheon of Modern Heroes who, unfortunately, gave their lives in every place, in every community, to make sure that big, beautiful pantheons are made for those modern Ukrainians who, unlike you and me, have given this country the most expensive of life. Praise our heroes! Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u59	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to take their seats. The committee's proposal to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. But I'm going to make these two decisions in turn. Dear colleagues, I would like to propose the adoption of the draft Act amending Appendix No.3 to the Law on the State Budget for 2023. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:36:58]] For 305 Decision taken. I propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending Appendix No.3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2023 (Registration No. 9437) should be adopted. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:37:34]] For 312 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, the next draft without discussion, was this proposal, 9415. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on State and Communal Property Rental on the use of property by national institutions of higher education of state form of property. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:38:16]] For 309 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Law on State and Municipal Property Renting (Registration No. 9415) on the use of property by national institutions of higher education of state ownership. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:38:47]] For 312 I propose the adoption, as a whole, of the necessary technical and legal amendments, of a draft Act amending the Law on State and Municipal Property Rental (Registration No. 9415). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:39:24]] For 312 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next bill 8410 is the draft law amending the Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act, which is the second reading. We agreed that we would have two amendments from Heratchenko, and we would vote. There's no change? Can we vote now? Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Impact Assessment (Registration No. 8410). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:40:16]] For 256 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! The next bill is 9311-1, 9311-2, 9311-4, 9311-1-d. Dear colleagues, we have arranged for the Conciliation Council, which will speak only by the authors, without question, and we vote. We're going to have authors, I understand, two: Kid and Timoshenko. Does Herus insist? Don't insist. Then Maxim Chlapuk, then Julia Timoshenko. Oh, it'll be Kucherenko, yeah? Okay. Please, Maxim Mikolaiovich Chlapuk. After this, Kucherenko. And then we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u60	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Your attention is drawn to the bill prepared by the Committee, which provides for a one-time special procedure for the corporate restructuring of the Ukrainian gas transport system operator, which was originally proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but with added safeguards that remove the risks of non-compliance with international commitments under the funding arrangements from the International Monetary Fund and the European Union. I would like to remind you that Ukraine has committed itself to the EU to start a corporate restructuring of the GTS operator, and before the IMF to transfer the corporate rights of the GTS operator from the IMU shareholder company to the Ministry of Energy, to continue to accept the statute agreed with the Energy Community Secretariat. And that's it by July of this year. And form the Supervisory Board of the Gas System Operator by the end of October 2023. I would like to point out that this is not just a commitment, but a structural beacon of the IMF. So it's one of the most important conditions for running this program. The amended bill contains all the safeguards proposed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, which do not allow them to deviate from the declared reform course and this bill is fully agreed with the Energy Community Secretariat. So one of the key norms that we found common agreement between the Committee, the Ministry of Energy and the Secretariat is to obtain a binding conclusion from the Secretariat of the Energy Community to ensure the continuing certification of the Operator at the time of the adoption of the new statute. I stress that the independent professional activity of the GTS Operator is an overriding element of our country's energy security and a guarantee of continued supply of natural gas to consumers. Given the importance of reform and taking into account that there is little time left to implement it, I ask you to support the committee's decision to vote on the basis of which it has worked as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, please give the floor to Kucherenko. But, Alexi Yuriovich, one second. Dear friends, I beg you, we haven't had enough of cannabis, we've supported the famine. People! There may not be anyone who can accept it in the second reading. Get your hands off me, please! Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, Please give the word to Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u62	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. I'm one of the co-authors with Julia Timoshenko of the alternative bill. I explain why we think as authors that our bill is more effective and pragmatic. First of all, I want to point out that no reform, so to speak, is the point now. Let's be honest, it's about correcting the situation, correcting the mistake that was made by the Supreme Council in 2019, when, in a very fast, accelerated regime, which was then very fashionable, they accepted the so-called "bandling" as a completely unacceptable scheme for a totally unacceptable management system, when essentially two structures did: Clearly, this two - part management structure led to a complete management crisis and a fiasco of this model. Unfortunately, at that point, another huge mistake was made -- the only technology complex was the GTS -- the gas transport system of Ukraine, which remained in Ukrattransgas, the daughter of Naftogazu, and so on. The vault, and the GTS Operator, which controls the pipe. It was also a huge mistake, which today essentially translates all the mistakes and all the losses into consumers. Our bill, along with Julia Timoshenko, corrects this mistake. It unites into a single complex – the only gas transport system, shelters and GTS, and it creates a clear system for managing this complex through the Ministry of Energy. Please support our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion, we're moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to adopt a bill on optimizing the ownership structure of the Ukrainian gas transport system operator, bill registration number 9311-1-d. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:47:18]] For 268. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill 9014-1 is a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the use of customs declarations and electronic transit systems provided for in the Convention on the Common Transit Procedure for transit under this Code. We said there would be a three-minute speech by Timoshenko, one vote by Voice, and we're voting. Yeah? There won't be a speech from Fatherland. The Voice won't make any changes, either? It won't. So let's move right on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the use of customs declarations and electronic transit systems provided for in the Convention on the Common Transit Procedure for transit under the terms of this Code (Registration No. 9014-1). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:48:45.]] For 285 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. 9266 is a draft of the Law on Electronic Agrarian Payments. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:49:15.]] For 278 Decision taken. Next. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:49:40]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, summary procedure: two in, two in, against? Please sign up. Please, two men signed up, only Sergey Mikolayovich. Please don't split up, because after that we're voting. Please. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u64	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u65	Kirilenko, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I have not seen in a long time that there are so many observations of scientific expertise before the bill. Friends, 17, with a scrappy text that can't be accepted. At first glance, it's both popular and current name, electronic receipts, digitalization -- everything's clear. But friends, how many points in this bill are there that make it impossible for a good document to support. I won't stop at everyone, but I can't help but say the basics. First of all, friends, there's and it's already working for the manufacturer's Agrarians Act, everybody's used to it, it's working. For what else did another law need to be made with blurred standards and unspecified procedures? Why? One law and another law will work. Science-expert management just didn't write that there would be chaos and confusion. But there is clearly a comforter and victim in this chaos. The victim is a farmer, a farmer, a farmer, our peasants. The beneficiary is the creditor. I'll explain what the comforter is. What is his advantage? Friends, for the first time, it is possible to stop the earth. It's a little cloudy, but it's pretty clear on the ground. Taking into account that agricultural lending is almost absent because the National Bank’s account rate is 25. This means that commercial banks give no less than 30. It's fantasmagoria in these conditions to take that kind of credit and then plus with the money that you have in commercial banks, the games go by themselves. Hence, friends will, of course, be drawn to someone who can give.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u66	Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, "European Solidarity" faction. It's a Southern. Then Kowalczuk goes to the vote. Alexander Kowalczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, this idea of introducing electronic agrarian receipts for more than two years. And I think we've discussed this additional tool for lending our agrarians on more than one occasion. By the way, there were a lot of letters at the committee's address in support of this draft law from companies that are lending agrarians. In fact, since 2013, the machinery of these paper agrarian receipts has been used widely enough, but in modern times. At the present time, agriculture seems to need such an upgrade. I think we're going to take a second look at all of the comments of the GNEU, because in parallel the two operating systems have to stay. Because when it comes to electronic agrarian receipts, it's even worse than it was. So we really need to work on the second reading. But what I'm really worried about is the general question about the information that's going on in all media right now, is information from the law enforcement agencies about all the detections of criminal acts in the area of agricultural products for export. Please tell me, when is this going to stop? If we haven't learned to control basic things, what are we talking about? I hope the 300 companies that unloaded the grain through the grain corridor on those vessels. A small number of ships, though, will one day be responsible for the non-refundation of foreign exchange earnings and the failure to pay taxes to the country’s budget. Once again, information has been sent out, and in the last two months there have been significant violations in this area. I think we need to work out at the level of ministries and not just at the level of our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u68	Please, Kowalczuk. Dear colleagues, after which we will proceed to the vote. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u69	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians. I listen carefully to what my colleagues from other factions say, and I would very much like these talks to be heard by Ukraine's agriculture, because it's a strange position for me, which has been said both by the first and by the second, that it's not clear what agrarians need. Dear colleagues, I'll tell you what agrarians need. This is what the Ukrainian agrarians need, and it is the agrarians who, under extremely difficult conditions during the war, process the land, send the boys to the front, send their own equipment, large quantities of their products and money in the form of transportation, weapons, drones and all that the Ukrainian Armed Forces need to advance in order to win. These are the crops that were limited in the export of their products, because we had a problem with both water and land corridor exports, and these are the crops that need our help with you. It's very simple. Our committee was approached by numerous associations, not by individual agrarian companies mentioned here. And this bill is also supported by the Ministry of Finance and Agricultural Policy of Ukraine, which says that there are, of course, technical moments that need to be taken into account, but there are no objections. And the Act, which is the active "On agrarian receipts," remains active, that is, an active mechanism and is a new electronic mechanism. You and I talk a lot about what electronic documents, electronic documents, give us more opportunities. So let's give our agrarians more opportunities.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, thank you, we've finished our discussions, we're moving on to a decision, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, as part of the first article of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Law on Electronic Agrarian Payments (Registration No. 9266). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:58:02]] For 270. Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. The next bill, 9230, is a draft law amending article 16 of the Law on Currency and Monetary Transactions on the responsibility for violating the period of settlement by residents for export operations. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:58:39]] For 233 Decision taken. Next, I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified way. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:59:04]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two in favor, two in favor, and we vote against it, right? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Schuljak Olenna Alexiyevna, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u71	Please, I'll pass on the word of Ella Ripinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u72	Please, Ella Ripin. Dear fellows, do not depart, for two speeches and we vote. Please, Mrs. Ella.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, please support this bill, it applies to our exporters, so we need to support it as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u74	Thank you. Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u75	Thank you. Again, please pass the word to Nina Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u76	Please, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, I'm calling your attention, cynically and irresponsibly. It seems to me that such irresponsibility from the government, the National Bank, was not to be expected. Please, people's deputies, you're now being asked to introduce a rule at the level of law that will allow the last day of the outbreak of a large-scale war to stop foaming to those exporters who were working with the Russian Federation and Belarus, and from these two countries, they didn't get the money on time. At the beginning of the war, we adopted, more loyally, the National Bank, by its decree, confirmed the order that for all of our exporters who did not receive the currency proceeds there was exclusion, but with the exception of the Russian Federation and Belarus. So if, in fact, someone is now considered necessary to encourage work with countries that continue to bomb us every day and to kill our economy in general, let's help them. You're saying that these are the same exporting companies. Yeah, well, why don't we just do the same thing to those exporting companies that are putting their product into other countries today and can't get their own product in time for 180 days? Let's then for those who expand our export opportunities to liberalize, not for those who, given the risks, supplied products to these countries, they take into account all the risks and pay the penny to the state, including. So think 10 times about how to take such steps for the benefit of even those important Ukrainian companies that some deputies are now trying to protect at the level of law, for that is the National Bank of Ukraine if it makes that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. You're still, yes, then, please, one minute. One minute, Cabal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, there is no way to support this bill. What is business? Business is when an enterprise takes certain risks, understanding these risks, it can get profits or losses, some Ukrainian businesses unfortunately run a business with Russia. It was allowed, I don't blame them, the state allowed it. But they realized that there were risks involved, including legislative risks. And when there were some sort of expert transactions, the legislation was that they realized that if there was a situation that wasn't just going to pay them back, they wouldn't pay back the proceeds, and they had to pay those fines, those were the risks they were going to take. We cannot encourage those who traded with Russia while others deliberately chose not to trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u80	Please, Vlasenko, one more minute. Then we vote. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u81	Yes, thank you, Mr. Head. I want to remind you that the war didn't start in the 22nd year, but in the 14th year, the law says that we should give aid to those who traded with the aggressor country during the war with the Russian Federation. I find that absolutely unacceptable. And by the way, we're told they're having a hard time getting out of currency control. It's easy to get out of currency control: get help from TPP, get it to the bank, and get the bank to accept it, and get it out of currency control, and there's no question about it. If we want to look at and benefit from our business, which is actually suffering today and is really a problem with the return of money in connection with war, let us look at these issues in a business that has not violated moral conditions and moral obligations. The previous colleague said there was no ban on trade with Russia -- he's 100 percent right now, but there's no formal ban on trade with Russia. Therefore, we encourage those who continue to do so. who then traded during the war with Russia is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, and we are moving on to making a decision. I am proposing to adopt a proposal based on the revision of the provisions, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the draft Act amending article 16 of the Law on Monetarys and Monetary Transactions on Accountability for Violations of Settlements by Residents for Export Transactions (registration No. 9230). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:05:31]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to propose to re-read Bill 9230. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:06:02]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. The bill was sent for re-reading. The next bill, 8185, is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use by law enforcement authorities of unmanned aircraft and their illegal use. It's the second reading, my esteemed colleagues. We agreed that there would be a performance from the Fatherland faction, the Tsymbaluk, then two amendments from the EC, two amendments from Chlapuk, two amendments from Klimenko, and we're voting. Did I get it right? Please, from Fatherland, Julia Volodymyr, please. Oh, no? It's a cymbaluk, isn't it? Please, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u83	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank all those who participated in the drafting of this bill for the second reading. Let me remind you that we are expanding the powers of the National Police, the State Border Service, the Security Service, and other security forces to control and control drones. This is extremely important because during the war period this is the challenge facing our defence forces and other military formations that are now active in the protection of the state. We also authorize the National Police to control those drones that are used on water. This is also a challenge that needs to be introduced today at the level of this bill. We have also taken into account all the proposals that have been made by the forces of defense from the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which our fighting forces face on the line of conflict, standing up and conquering our territories. There is no secret that this is the challenge facing our fighters today, and sometimes a fraction of a second depends on saving our military lives, realizing that this drone is friendly, that is, our Armed Forces and other military formations, whether this drone belongs to the enemy. We also impose rules on the use of certain special devices in order to detect and destroy these aircraft at the official level. That is why I propose and ask all the national MPs to support this bill, to vote on it in a second reading, so that it will act as soon as possible and help our Armed Forces and other defense forces to free our territory from the enemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u84	Thank you. Please, two revisions from the "ES" faction. Who will make the adjustments? Oh, I see. I'd like a representative of the committee to take over. Please, Sumar. Just tell me the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u85	Thank you, Mr. Head. I have two amendments: 120 and 124. Please give an answer to the committee. Because the bill, which was, in principle, very correct from the very beginning, because it was intended to prevent the aggressor state or potential diversors near the border, near the border line, yes, over the border services. In fact, you have turned into a law that applies to all objects both to the Border Service and to the National Police and to the Security Service as well as to the Liaison Service. And what's more, you don't limit it to a period of martial law. The previous reporter said it was relevant to do so now. And I absolutely agree, let's do this now. My amendment exactly 120-a refers to the limitation of this period of the state of war. And that's not the only amendment. And I'm asking you to answer, why don't you? And I'd like to ask you for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u86	Mrs. Victoria, the only thing I'm going to do is make it clear. 120's not your fix. Your 122nd amendment. Your 122nd amendment. Look, I don't know, in that table we have, 122 amendments. Also, open from the site, respected colleagues. Dear colleagues, look, Mrs. Victoria, you can only make your amendment. Your 122nd and 126th. I think we're gonna go get them, okay? Would you please check out the 122nd and 126th Committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u87	122th, yeah. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u88	Just now. It's a website. I'm not going to check the site right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u89	Here. I also have 122nd and 126th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u90	Look, in those documents that I have, which are printed, 122nd and 126th. Mrs. Sumar, right? So please answer 122 and then 126 you ask, and then we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this amendment has been rejected. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill regulates not only the issue of the State Border Service but all law enforcement agencies. We are with you now also in the premises of the Supreme Council, which is protected by the Department of State Security, the Ukrainian Security Service, and accordingly this bill authorizes the entire range of law enforcement agencies, not just the State Border Service. If you look at the title of the bill, it clearly states that this applies to law enforcement. Moreover, I would like to point out that this bill exclusively applies to law enforcement agencies and does not regulate the use of unmanned aircraft by society, journalists and other scientists there. We agreed not to regulate this bill. Thank you. Thus, the committee rejected Amendments 122 and 126, which applied exclusively to border guards. We give such powers to both the Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 122 amendments to the authorship of National Deputy Sumar The committee's dismissed. You've heard the argument of the page. I'm betting on 122 adjustments. Please vote. [[14:13:32]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 126. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u93	Thank you. We figured out that there's another refined table on the site, it's not in principle right now, numeration. Basically, Mr. Ionushas, what you said, yes, you added to the second reading and the police, and the Security Service, this wasn't on the first reading, you regulate a lot. But once again, I asked you about the period of martial law, you don't limit it. You're introducing the practice of hitting any drone over any police station at any time, even after the war, just for consciousness. So we're saying that no one will be able to see it and, more than that, I have an amendment here to which. I was asked by the lawyers not to restrict, for example, freedom of assembly, constitutional rights of citizens. And you're rejecting it. The country that survived Midan has no right to allow the adoption of law enforcement agencies, especially after the war. My colleagues, I think this approach, it just introduces a dictatorship.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, 126 amendments, by Sumar, have been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:15:04]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Thank you. All of it. There are no more amendments from the EC. Please, the Voice faction. Two corrections: Kid and two corrections, Klimenko. But first, call the number so we can find them. Please, Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u95	Good afternoon, colleagues. These are amendments 75 and 79, they are related. We insist that the right of journalists to use unmanned drones up to 20 kilograms [20 kg] in journalistic activities without the need to register such aircraft in the State Register is established, but if such drones are to be counted in the media, that is, in the media, editorials, or in the possession of a journalist. This will avoid potential problems in the use of drones by journalists, such as preparing anticorruption investigations and preventing illegal restrictions on journalistic activity. And I emphasize that this applies to standards of peace, not wartime. This amendment is very important for ensuring the independence of journalistic activity. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u96	Committee position, please, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u97	Very short. Dear colleagues, when we spoke and voted in favour of the first reading with Alexander Ustinov, we agreed that, honourable colleagues, this bill does not regulate the use of unmanned aircraft by society, journalists, scientists, only regulates the use of law enforcement. That's the first one. The other one. You're talking about the register. We've cleaned up any sign of a register that allows society to use them freely. No enrollment is available. There is only the authority of the law enforcement authorities. So if this is taken into account, it's going to break the law because there's no register and we can't make any changes to the register even in journalists. So the position of the committee is to reject. We will regulate the use of journalists after the war is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 75th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Chlapuk. The committee's dismissed. You've heard the position of the party. I'll put 75 amendments to the vote. Please vote. [[14:17:33]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Can I go straight to 79, Maxime? Give me your word? Can I bet right away? Please, Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u99	They are linked. So let's do the same thing, but I want to point out in the replica that, for the time being, the Air Code allows the actual leisure activity. But journalism is not an activity, it's a professional activity, and it's an independent branch of government. That's why I proposed. Taking the first reading into account, they proposed to remove arbitrary activity, to isolate journalistic activity as a single protected activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u100	I'm putting 79 amendments to the authorship of Maxim Chlapuk. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:18:36]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Thank you. All right, Maxim, you got everything? What? Wait a minute, we still have some adjustments to take into account. Please make two adjustments to Klimenko. Julia Leonidina, please. Just call the numbers right away, Julia. He writes to me, "Dear Deputy Klimenko, insert the card." Got it? Please. We didn't. Your microphone is not on because there is no card, try again.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u101	Did you insert the card, Julia Leonidovna? I need a card. and insert. It's not working. Oh, it worked.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u102	The card works, you don't want to listen to me. Dear colleagues, in principle, I have a lot of rights, there's about 50, I'll only take 14 and 23 amendments to the Air Code with your permission. They may not even have to vote, but I would like to say about this law. First of all, it's not about the National Guard and the drones, it's about the IMF and the police, it's just a little bit of this law. In fact, this law changes the concept of the Air Code. And why he went to the Committee of Law, not transport and infrastructure, remains to be surprised. Since the law has been in our possession for a year and a half, it has been called 3716, and it has actually introduced system law in accordance with the EU Directive into the Air Code, which regulates unmanned vessels.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u103	Please give the committee a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u104	Very short. Our committee was forced to reconvene in order to clear any changes to the Air Code, since recently the Supreme Council, the honourable colleagues, we have voted with you on another bill that passed by our distinguished colleague, the Transport Committee, Yuri Kisiel, and accordingly the bill is being amended. You and I voted the bill as a basis and as a whole. This bill doesn't make any changes to the Air Code, and that's why it applies to the law enforcement system. So the position of the committee is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 14th amendment was rejected by the committee, by Klimenko Julia Leonidina. Ah, you won't bet. I'm sorry, then we don't put it. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. We can move on to making a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Irina Volodymyrno, we agreed that only the amendments would be made. No, you have a right, but there are arrangements, and there is a right. Please, Irina Volodymyr. Yeah, I just want to remind you that at Conciliation we agreed a little differently, but holy law. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to confirm two amendments: 43rd and 45th. What's going on here? This is about banning any flight of unmanned equipment, including the Ukrainian Security Service, over police stations, forever under conditions of non-military status. Sorry, no drone says it's a journalist drone. And then when we ask why we're not in NATO, maybe because we don't have freedom of speech, and this bill blocks journalistic investigations and anti-corruption investigations. Because no journalist can now launch a drone to learn about illegal parks new to the Ukrainian Security Service or the National Police. I'm sorry who's going to figure out what a drone is, who's going to figure out that it's not a TV station, it's just a TV station manager. I think that's why we passed this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u107	Irina Volodymyrna, 43 and 45 amendments, they're not counted, they're rejected, so you can't put them on confirmation because they're rejected. I apologize, once again, these amendments have been rejected, and amendments can be made for confirmation. Him? They're both rejected. They're both rejected. So, dear colleagues, let's move on to making a decision, but this is kind of the case. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer. I propose, my fellow Members, to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the application by the law enforcement authorities of unmanned aircraft and against their illegal use (registration No. 8185). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:24:13]] For 263 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. And we agreed immediately to accept, without amendment, 8235. I therefore propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code for the Elimination of Criminal Conflicts (registration No. 8235). I would like to propose a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:24:59]] For 281 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u108	Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The second reading, too, I understand, Sergey Konstantinovich, you continue to be. What about the Median? Please, Viacheslav Anatolyovich Medjanik. [[Applause]] See how the hall greets you. Bill number 7354 of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences concerning Administrative Responsibility for the Preparation and Admission of Drivers to the Control of Means of Transport (second reading). We agreed that there would be an amendment from Voice and Gregory Mikolaiovich Mamka has a solid position, minutes of three. Gregory Mikolaiovich, are you ready to sound it? Two? Two minutes, please. And you don't set the line, do you? You don't have to. Okay, two minutes, Mom, then Voice. Oh, no? Then two minutes of Mom's vote, stay close, please. Please, Mother, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u109	Thank you for the opportunity, instead of 20 minutes, 2 to speak and for the tips that you don't apply. I'm paying attention to the national MPs, which, in fact, with the sales people who sell education for money, the rights and everything else and the drivers who do traffic events and violate traffic rules, we have to fight. Fighting two incidents, or taking driver’s licenses on the basis of a law, or teaching again. But the two criteria that I said are both not in the law at this time and are not in the bill's authors either. Will it solve the problem that money can buy either teaching or passing the exam by this law? The answer is no. As sold and sold. I want to point out that this law does not decide the main thing if a school gets a license, an accreditation to carry out one or the other, namely, education, which is quality training with the participation of specialists, this law does not allow or gives the State the right to withdraw accreditation and license. I said three points that solve this problem. There's no reason to retrain. There is no such thing as breaking the rules and rules. And thirdly, there's no reason to take the driver's license. Because they make 200 or 300 fines, and they take them away, and they force them to learn and force them not to commit a crime, there is no mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u110	Thank you. We can go to the vote. So, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal rights, the Bill of Registration No. 7354, the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the implementation of administrative responsibility in the field of preparation and admission of drivers to transport control. Please vote. [[14:29:07]] For 271 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Show the factions, please. Thank you, Vjacheslav Anatoliyovich. Thank you, Sergey Konstantinovich. We go to the next bill, Bill 9405, the draft Act on Amendments and Recognition, which has become invalid, some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the completion of quarantine established to prevent the spread in Ukraine of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2. We need to include this in the agenda of the day session. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[14:30:06]] For 261 Decision taken. The project is included in the agenda of the day session. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[14:30:27]] For 225 Decision taken. Two for, two for, one for, one for. Please write two in a row, two in a row, from factions and groups. Please, "European Solidarity", Rostislav Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u111	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sergio Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u112	Please, Alekseev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, of course, the faction "European Solidarity" will support Bill 9405. This bill is important. Because it aims to adapt our legislation to new realities. The COVID-19 pandemic, which has lasted for years, has created a number of challenges that we have responded to by introducing various temporary norms and limitations. However, following the announcement of the World Health Organization on May 5, 2023, to abolish the status of the COVID-19 pandemic, it became necessary to review or cancel these positions. But I would like to draw your attention to two points that I think require further discussion and further elaboration of the second reading. First, the bill proposes to cancel the possibility of a person participating in a video conference without an electronic digital signature. But I think we need to discuss the possibility of some of this standard being preserved, because we are in a state of war right now. And secondly, the bill proposes to exclude some parts of article 39 of the Law on State Guarantees on Insurance Payments to Health Care Services. However, some of the provisions proposed to be excluded are not related to the effects of COVID-19. For example, this is true of regulations that regulate the insurance of family members, parents, and health - care workers in the event of their death. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u114	Please, Servant of the People, Nekludov Vladen Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u115	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Sergiyovich. It is a pleasure to see you in good humor, which means that you are in the right mood. And this law should speak of what is already coming out of the arena, yes, and it is in some cases anachronism, and appropriate measures should be taken at the legislative level. Because in some cases legislation is actually lagging behind social relations, and we need to keep pace with it. Of course, there are several points in this bill where we on the committee drew the attention of the distinguished Denis Anatoliyovich to taking the necessary measures. I think between the first and the second, we're going to work on some of the points there, especially that there can't be a 44 with a 3 being greater than. The KUPAP sanction, greater than the 325th Criminal Code of Ukraine, it is. It's absurd out there, it's saying that from a thousand to two non-taxed minimums, KUPAP predicts – this is administrative responsibility, and the 325th part of the first Criminal Code – up to 100 untaxed minimums. That is, the lower limit of the KUPAP article is 10 times higher than that of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. This is a violation, indeed, of the hierarchy of legislation. I think we need to take action here. And yes, in general, I think we can support it, and we need to support it. Once again, we need to keep pace with time and make adjustments. But between the first and the second, we need to work so that we are not ashamed of what we accept. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u116	Thank you, Vladlen Mikhailovich. I understand so much from your discussion, I apologize that you're more concerned with the next bill, perhaps the responsibility that goes with it. But we will accept it without discussion, it is true, so now there is a point to discuss two bills, and 9403 too. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, you know, this story shows us how it works, as always. Well, it was quite obvious that the coronavirus pandemic no longer exists, and sooner or later the government will take the decision that this medical fact acknowledges. And it's quite clear that we need to change the laws that we've been changing into the Coronavirus pandemic. But it must be done in a systematic way, and this must be done in advance, certainly not in a hurry, looking at all the consequences that may arise in this regard. And of course, the issues involved in canceling the changes that we made during the pandemic period, well, you probably have to do it on the profile committees, because, with all due respect to Mikhail Borisovich, but, well, probably not the medical committee should be working on amending the procedural codes and canceling some of the things that were set out in the procedural codes: in the administrative procedural, the master procedural and other codes. So we just need to be more systematic about this -- and now we need to make changes to all the legislative acts that we've adopted in relation to a particular specific feature that we've had during the coronavirus pandemic. We have to see what we're leaving behind, what we're cleaning, because we probably left behind the video conference mechanism in the Supreme Council and the Zoom Committees. Although, to my conviction, we need to get back to the work of the Supreme Council and resume the work of the committees. But we need to do it systematically, we need to do it in a balanced way so that we don't have any negative consequences, and we have clearly settled all the issues that we need to resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u118	Thank you. Let's go to. Ah, Grigory Mikolayovich's mom, then the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say very briefly, this is a practical example of how we should not work. Well, the state shouldn't manually reflect on calls called diseases. There are states, there are criteria that are defined by another law. For example, if it is the same condition, it is the reaction, or determination. A violation of a decree is a responsibility. And for the time being, we've made changes, we've cancelled the changes. I think it's still necessary for the Cabinet of Ministers to work out the conduct of a violation of the definition of the law during epidemics, in a state of emergency, and then only by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers or another body, then there must be responsibility. And yes, to import and cancel, well, that's a little bit wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u120	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Invite the deputies to the hall. I would like to propose a proposal for a vote to be adopted on the basis of a redrafting of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the draft Act (registration number 9405) on the amendment and recognition of certain legislative acts of Ukraine in relation to the completion of quarantine established to prevent the spread in Ukraine of COVID-19 acute respiratory disease caused by SARS-COV-2. Please vote. [[14:39:12]] For 253 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Next bill without discussion, don't break up. This is a satellite bill before the previous registration number 9403, the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine in connection with the completion of quarantine established to prevent the spread in Ukraine of COVID-19 acute respiratory disease caused by SARS-COV-2. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[14:39:57]] For 263 Decision taken. I propose a bill for registration number 9403. Please vote. [[14:40:18]] For 273 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Next bill on registration number 9110, this is second reading, we're going to vote fast. Five Minutes of Fatherland, Tsimbaluk. Okay. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the definition of categories of persons who are recognized as persons with disabilities as a result of war and members of the families of the dead Protectors and Protectors of Ukraine, as well as providing them with social guarantees. Three minutes, please, Fatherland, Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich. Two minutes. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u121	Thank you. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, Honorable Colleagues! In fact, the bill is very necessary. I thank all those who are authors and who have worked on the second reading. The point is that we have expanded the circle of those who, as a result of getting injured, are involved in combat and are believed to have received them during combat. It's about those who serve in the teaching centers, it's about students in the military schools, and it's about students in the military. This bill establishes the status of a participant in combat and extends the benefits to all families whose members have died, i.e. relatives who died in rocket attacks, bombardment of educational centres or places of residence in educational institutions. The "Fatherland" faction has tabled a number of amendments to this bill. But considering that 116 articles did not allow these adjustments to be taken into account, we offered them to be part of a working group that deals with the very issue of military and defence forces. You know that one bill has already been approved by the session hall, more than 300 votes in terms of payback, vacation, and so on. And we're sure that the working group is also working on these proposals that were introduced by way of drafting this bill. We suggest that we support him in this way. And the Fatherland faction will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u122	Thank you. Thank you, Fatherland. So I suggest we move on to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill with registration number 9110, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the definition of categories of persons who are recognized as disabled by war and by members of the families of the dead Protectors and Protectors of Ukraine, as well as providing them with social guarantees. Please vote. [[14:43:31]] For 258. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you. Next bill with registration number 9271. He's almost out of the question, so don't split up. Draft Act amending certain legislation on the use of maternity leave. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. [[14:44:07]] For 246 Decision taken. The bill is included in the agenda of the day session. We agreed on Marina Olegna Bardina's speech, and we're moving on to the vote. Therefore, I invite the authors of the Ukrainian national MP Bardina Marina Olegovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u123	Good afternoon, colleagues. I thank you in advance for your support, because I have already spoken to all factions and groups today. This bill is important in terms of the operationalization of maternity leave and pregnancy for women. It's a possibility, really, to take part of the maternity leave when a mother needs a child more when a baby doesn't have a head and less mobile than if a woman took this maternity leave. So if the doctors do not have any contradictions, the woman will be able to use the 126 - day leave for the standard delivery after the baby is born. So we're operating on this vacation. And I want to tell my colleagues in the room who thought that I might have a conflict of interest, there's no conflict of interest, because there might be a conflict of interest today in all women of Parliament who are pregnant right now or potentially may ever be pregnant. Thank you for your attention. And thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u124	Thank you, Marina Olegna. Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose a bill on the basis of registration number 9271: draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use of maternity leave. Please vote. [[14:46:03]] For 266 Decision taken. There is a proposal to adopt the bill as a whole. I would like to propose a motion for a vote to be adopted as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill under registration number 9271: draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the specificities of the use of maternity leave and maternity leave. Please vote. [[14:46:41]] For 267 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Let's say hello to Marina Olegnowna and everyone who's involved and who's going to be involved. Dear colleagues, we agreed on the Conciliation to vote about this time the President's questions about the heroes of the people, and there are still questions about hero cities this time. So I suggest we move on to this. We have a request from a group of national deputies (Jurchina, Ariev and others). A total of 18 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the establishment of Hero Day. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules puts to the vote a proposal for previous support for a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[14:47:46]] For 260 Decision taken. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[14:48:13]] For 266 Decision taken. Request sent to the President. Request for a group of national deputies (Steps, Kunaev and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the award of the honorary award to the City Hero of Ukraine to the city of Gulaypole of the Pologov district of Zaporozhye. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote a proposal for previous support of the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[14:48:54]] For 259. Decision taken. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. [[14:49:20]] For 263 Decision taken. And Roman Gritchcock's third request to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of Tigrain Oganisian and Mikita Hangan's title "The Hero of Ukraine". In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote a proposal for previous support of the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. [[14:50:02]] For 267 Decision taken. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[14:50:28]] For 267 Decision taken. Eternal memory, eternal glory to our heroes. Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have 9481, right? This is a draft decree on some issues concerning the implementation of Ukraine's parliamentary control over the acquisition and use of international material and technical assistance during the war. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[14:51:11]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, would you please speak? Alexander Yuryevna and then. Dear colleagues, we can vote right after Alexandra's speech. "European Solidarity." Let's take two minutes of European Solidarity after Alexandria Jury and vote. Please, Alexandra Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, you will now vote in favour of the report of the temporary special commission, which is responsible for monitoring the arms coming to Ukraine. I'll tell you the truth, it's probably a pretty unique commission, because we have access to that information and we see what's going on. And as Russians now use fairy tales to discredit Ukraine abroad, each of these fairies has to be addressed. I was laughing, of course, when the French media reported that we were selling M-777 to the American Russians howitzer. I think only the Russians could have guessed we'd resell them there. But each such case, unfortunately, has to be handled, has to communicate with our military. But I can tell you one thing, we have a very cool army. Those weapons monitoring programs that have been running abroad for years have been launched in a few months. We can now go online, 24 hours a day, kill in the program, say, Stinger, I don't know, there's Javelin, or any kind of weapon, and you'll see exactly where they are. You're not going to have a geolocation, but you're definitely going to be able to figure out how much you've lost. Every weapon we lose, we report to our partners about it, so let's say that Javelin, Stinger, didn't show up in Iran and we weren't accused of smuggling. [[inexplicable]] In fact, the work of the commission is very important in this aspect and a very important international aspect that we are also dealing with. I don't want to say there right now that it's just the work of the commission, but including what they gave us today, cassette ammunition -- it was also a commission. We traveled abroad repeatedly, traveled to the United States, convinced Congressmen that Ukraine did not steal weapons. And the same report went out in the Pentagon, literally a month before we came to the United States, and the Ukrainians had good weapons control. You know, the Americans are joking that if such gun control were in Afghanistan, maybe the war would have ended differently.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u127	Thank you. We vote in favour of the Order, yes. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, who from "European Solidarity", Heratchenko, or who? Fries, please, Mrs. Irina. And after that, we vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u128	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! In considering the report of the Interim Commission of the Supreme Council on monitoring, receiving and using international material and technical assistance during the state of war, the issue is very important and relevant. Because today you and I are receiving, as a nation, unprecedented assistance from our international partners and its growth must be built on trust in us as a country. When we read the report directly with you, we see that the use of material and technical assistance from our partners, in principle, is fine. And given to Ukraine by Himars and Caesar, they don't really steal and sell on the black market, they work to win. That is why this is confirmed by a sufficiently complex and effective system of internal and external control, which, in principle, focuses on what the reporter was talking about, to disprove those fairies that Russian propaganda is trying to discredit our state. But unfortunately, when we talk to you about internal processes and the purchase of arms, we have again a situation where we see, like, 17 bracelets of eggs, 36 billion dollars of government funds lost, or the receivables of the Ministry of Defense, which are currently ineffectively used by the Ministry of Defense in international procurement contracts. So in general, European Solidarity supports the report that the Commission has made. At the same time, we will be preparing a decree to expand the subject of the commission's knowledge, because we believe that this commission has, including control and monitoring and knowledge, directly what the Ministry of Defence is doing. Because when the Ministry of Defense does the opposite, it undermines confidence in Ukraine, which can in principle speak of discontent with Vilnius.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion, we're moving on to making a decision. I propose to accept, in general, with the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on certain issues of the implementation of Ukraine's parliamentary control over receiving and using international material and technical assistance in the course of the war (registration number 9481). Ready to vote? I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[14:56:51]] For 276 Decision taken. Next, dear colleagues, we agreed without discussion, it's 9382. This is a draft decree on the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the death (murder) of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Poland, Anton Eduardoovich. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, draft regulation No. 9382. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:57:29]] For 267 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following Bill 9293 is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve government and regulation in the provision of cloud services. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:58:01]] For 255 Decision taken. I'd like to make a suggestion to take this matter up by a reduced procedure, please vote. [[14:58:21]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please two in favor, two in favour. Would you please say, besides "European Solidarity," does anyone want to speak? She does. Then two in a row, two in a row. Please log in. Please, Devajchenko Valentino Aleksandrovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland" Please, Valentin Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u130	Dear Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen, dear protectors! Today, in support of this bill, the "Fatherland" faction emphasizes what we need for our citizens, and I did not in vain call for defenders, and for our defenders: protected electronic services -- once, secure and reliable electronic communications -- two. And thirdly, we stand for the immediate creation of a state for all citizens, primarily in the interests of the defence and security of the country, a reliable cyberprotection of such services. By supporting this bill, we also stress that Ukraine joins NATO, and then we thank the drafters of the bill, and we urge more cooperation with the cyber-protection centres in Finland, NATO, with the centre of cyber-protection in Estonia, as well as that used by NATO member countries. It is time for us, Ukraine, to become members of NATO and cyberspace. And we want every such bill on digital and modern and Ukraine's future to be as high as NATO and European Union standards. I urge the entire room to support this bill. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u131	Please Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u132	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u133	Please pass it on to Gerasim. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, we are now adopting this bill, we are discussing that the next one will be without discussion. They're about the same subject, and they're different aspects of it -- they're the cyberprotector of our country with you. "European Solidarity," I'm going to say, will support in the first reading and 9293, this is about cloud service regulation, and 9412, which refers to change to. Amendments to laws in the field of electronic communications. But what would you like to pay attention to, dear colleagues? Let's still do better in the preparation of drafts, and we'll do better in the preparation. Because, for example, in Bill 9293, you have to produce terminology and you have the notion of "communication services regulator." But if you analyze Ukrainian legislation, there is no such term as "communication services." So tell me, please, and let me answer a very simple question: What will the controller regulate if this concept does not exist? Yes, there's an idea, and today we had a discussion at Conciliation, Electronic Communications Services, but it's not the same broad generic notion of "communication services." It's like there's a discussion between lawyers. That's why we support this bill, but I have a huge request to the committee of profile to carefully take the transcript of this speech, to analyze this terminology and to make sure that the laws that we passed work, and not, I'm sorry, were accepted so that they could not then be applied, because you can't adopt laws: go there, I don't know where; take what, I don't know what. All of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u135	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Thank you for your timeliness. It's the only thing. Arthur Volodymyrovich! Arthur Volodymyrovich, thank you for your terminology. I think the second reading, of course, needs to be removed. But it's called cloud service. It is strange to hear that when cloud services are provided, there may be some other form of communication other than electronic communication. Well, they won't be able to get there in the paper. And maybe they will. Arthur Volodymyrovich. There are many Arthurs of Volodymyrovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich. And let's go to the vote. Please. None. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on improving government and regulation in the provision of cloud services (registration No. 9293). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[15:04:12]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we still have the next bill we agreed on without discussion. That's why I'm here right now. This is 9412 – a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine in the field of electronic communications to determine the period of operation of the rules and regulations relating to the legal regime of the state of war. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:04:49]] For 259. Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in the field of electronic communications to determine the period of operation of the rules and regulations related to the legal regime of war (register 9412). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:05:17]] For 264 Decision taken. I propose to adopt in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in the field of electronic communications concerning the determination of the period of operation of the rules and regulations relating to the legal regime of the state of war (registration number 9412). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:05:48]] For 262 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next 8423 is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:06:16]] For 262 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:06:38]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've agreed to discuss it or let's not discuss it. No discussion. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Post Office Act (Registration No. 8423). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:07:10]] For 261 Decision taken. The next bill 0192 is a draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the exercise of joint control of persons, means of transport and goods on the Ukrainian-Russian state border. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:07:46]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, will someone discuss or can we vote? He's asking for "European." We can, two minutes of European Solidarity and so forth. Please, who? Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. Then we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, surely our faction will support the denunciation of the entire cluster of issues related to the ongoing cooperation with the aggressor country. But it's an absolute disgrace that there's still experts in the relationship with the Russian Federation in this room. The Russian Federation killed 58 Ukrainian journalists in this war and still Ukrainian journalists remain captive to the Russian Federation. Where is the voice of the Committee on Freedom of Speech? I'm sorry, this committee would probably have had a day-to-day speech with the names of those journalists who are being held captive today, including the parliamentary correspondents of the UNAAN agency, the killed journalists and our photographers that we saw here every day, murdered under Butchia or were mobilized and killed by the Russian Federation. Can you please tell me when we heard about this? We have people here who, you know, have been hanging on the ledge for months with a "NATO no" ball, headed by a committee on freedom of speech, and everything's fine. And today our faction has not been able to receive from any other faction a break in exchange for the performance to express its protest against it. Are you still working with the people who are the best representatives here and still the Kremlin? We believe and insist that there should be an immediate decision to recall the Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech of Nestor Schuffric from his office. They say there are other reasons for this: a personal statement. Yes, please write this statement yourself. Statement by the Head of the Supreme Council, please make this statement, Sir Stefanchuk. The committee? So it's a shame that three people are working on this committee today. Three people working! Perhaps the committee will say that such a head has no right to preside over this committee. We demand that Nestor Shufrich be removed from office as Head of the Committee for Freedom of Speech. Because today we have no freedom of speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to accept as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the exercise of joint control of persons, means of transport and goods on the Ukrainian-Russian state border. Dear colleagues, registration number 0192. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:10:53]] For 263 Decision taken. Next, we agreed without discussion, 0208. I therefore immediately propose to accept as a basis and as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on Safety in the Application of Chemicals to Production No. 170 (Registration No. 0208). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:11:30.]] For 259. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, 7,442 more. We made a deal without discussion, didn't we? I therefore immediately propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures for the Use of Bankruptcy Procedures during Wartime (registration number 7442). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:12:08]] For 229 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Next bill. Andrew Viktorovich, you wanted to make an offer. Please, Motovilovec, it's Motovilovec.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u138	Friends, we're seeing in the order of the day the following laws, 5865 and 5125, are marked by Euro-integration. We see that we need more time to consult. We're asking you to consider changing the order of things, and these two laws are taken away, namely, 5865, 5125, from the order of the day. I'll be grateful for your support. Please clear the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to remove from today’s order the daily bills 5865 and 5125. Dear colleagues, I'm putting up this proposal, please support and vote. [[15:13:21]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next, we have 4344. This is a bill amending some legislation to encourage the development of the oil and gas sector. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[15:13:54]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, with discussion? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, while you're writing down, please, for the presentation of the County.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Your attention is on Bill 4344, which was registered to us as early as November 2020. Now let me tell you a little bit about what this bill is all about, why it's important. So in 2021, the government of Ukraine signed 12 distribution contracts, which were called upon to increase the volume of gas production in Ukraine, as well as oil production. As a result, guaranteed revenues from the implementation of these agreements should have amounted to an estimated $500 million. The signing of contracts became possible through the work of the Interministerial Commission on Organizing Contracts for the Distribution of Produce, whose members are 5 national deputies, including me. During the work of this commission, we have seen a number of shortcomings. For example, the decisions of the commission are not published anywhere. Broadcasts about board meetings are not going anywhere. Documents accepted by the commission are also not published anywhere. In addition, problems were also identified in the process of organising these distribution agreements. For example, reports of such a contract being made or sought by a person willing to make such a covenant were published a month before the contest. Any foreign investor, large or small, can't prepare and file documents on time to participate in this competition. Accordingly, we and a group of experts, which included representatives of the Association of Petroleum Companies of Ukraine, representatives of the Association of Extractive Industries of Ukraine, and representatives of the USAID Project, drafted a bill, which is a bill under number 4344. It was two years after we registered him. We're going to have to change it. I know I've heard from my colleagues that there are some comments to this bill. We're willing to listen, we're ready to work on the revisions, we're ready to change the text to reflect the realities, including that the distribution agreements are now stopped mainly because of force majeure, because of war. Thank you to the Economic Committee for its support. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we just signed up for two, two against. Please, Greenchuk Oksana Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People," please. Please, Comedian Natalia Igorovna, MP's "Delivery of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u142	Please pass on the word "Valerius."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u143	Please, Valery Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, the subject of both conservation and the increase in oil production in our country is part of our nation's national security. We need to strive for real energy independence by increasing our production and by diversifying foreign suppliers. The bill focuses on improving the mechanism of distribution agreements, and this is, indeed, one of the ways that in the future can produce real results in our country. Production distribution agreements encourage increased investment in the gas and oil sectors of Ukraine. This will have a positive impact on increased production and companies will have incentives to use new technologies as well as to increase overall efficiency. Undoubtedly, it is also important that the bill provides for direct prohibition on being an investor to persons associated with aggressor states who are subject to financial sanctions. This is an additional protection for Ukrainian nadr. The Ukrainian Liberation Group will vote in favour of this initiative and we will support the economic capacity of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u145	Thank you. Vlasenko, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u146	Thank you, Mr. Head. I agree with a colleague who spoke to me and said that the issue of gas growth and indigestion is a matter of security for our country. He's absolutely right about that, and we have to be aware of that. The only thing is that this law aims at increasing gas and oil production by commercial structures under different agreements with the state. I have a simple question. Where's the state? Where is the Naftogazu program after increasing its own production? We've heard about this program before 2019, we've heard about it since 2019. We had some great heads of the present who ran Naftogaz, told us what effective managers they were, and we didn't have an increase in Naftogaz's output, and I'd say it's shrinking. The second story is related to Ukranafta. I have a simple question, why did they nationalize the Ukranaft? In order to increase national oil production, the Ukrainian Armed Forces may be able to obtain gasoline at a normal price, not at a market price unknown, but at a normal price. So that citizens of Ukraine can get gas and oil at a normal price. So that the gas tariff is normal. Maybe we should talk more about the development of the state part of the oil and gas sector. Of course, there's also a commercial part of it, but it's working today this commercial part, so there's no problem, and so far there's a few million dollars in pay in the UK for leadership, the sale of petrol at a market price, the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defense, and nothing more. I think we should talk about this. Perhaps we should talk more about the state's need to increase its influence to ensure the energy security of itself as a nation and us as its citizens. And we have to ask, where is the increase and extraction program and oil production, maybe we should talk more about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u147	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Today, I want to remind you, it is not fashionable to talk about the Soviet Union, but it was in the Soviet Union that Ukraine was the largest supplier of gas and gas for the entire Soviet Union. And please tell me why this has happened, that if the corresponding area is owned by the state and then transferred in different ways to private property, the extraction begins much more effectively and more effectively than in the state. And the answer is simple: In public enterprises, unfortunately, they steal, steal, and we hope they will not steal. And on the private inside, steal conveniently. There are examples, but it's hard. But there are also unique cases, there's a famous Semirenkovi genealogy that's been in the control of one of our colleagues, and it's got one and a half million cubic metres of gas a month, and the time when "instead of" it's committed a crime and it's lost its ability to manage it further, it's extracted it (pay attention!) Eighty-five million cubes a month. So the output has been increased by almost 30 times in 10 years. And this talented man, this talented manager today, is among us. To this day, we do not know what is in the depth of 8 kilometers, where Norway’s gas is being extracted, but there are also large deposits of gas. Of course, we must encourage and adopt this law, but we must also remember that in the public sector, gas mining cannot be stolen and corrupt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, please, just one more minute. Who else wants to speak? And the Cubans, one minute. Please, Maxim Kid.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, Ukraine’s energy independence cannot be achieved without an increase in domestic natural gas production, which in turn cannot be achieved without the involvement of foreign investment and technology in the mining sector. The arrangement between the State and the investor of the distribution agreements can be an effective tool in attracting investment. At the same time, it really needs to be improved in quality, first and foremost, to increase transparency in the process of conducting the competitions themselves and further making agreements and removing corruption risks. This bill has a number of important positive innovations, such as the establishment of clear criteria for determining winners of R & D competitions, establishing the transparency and openness of the work of the interdisciplinary commission, increasing the number of candidates for the competition, and, importantly, canceling the possibility of making contracts without the distribution of products for parts with small stocks of useful fossils. At the same time, they need undisputed consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u151	Please, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba. And, dear fellows, after that, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to take their seats. Please, Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u152	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, "European Solidarity" will support this bill. Four important positions. The first position is to ensure the openness and publicity of the interdisciplinary commission. The second item is an increase in the term between the publication of the tender notice for the contract for the distribution of products and the deadline for the submission of the bid: from one to three months for the land and six months for the shelf. The third position is to prohibit being an investor in an agreement on the distribution of produce to the aggressor State. And last but not least, the transfer of breeding fossils for industrial development is cancelled. We'll vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this issue, and we are moving on to making a decision. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain legislation to encourage the development of the oil and gas sector (registration number 4344). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[15:25:59]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill, 9387, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Specialities of the Cessation of State Enterprises by Decision of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. [[15:26:34]] For 237 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[15:26:55]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, why don't we talk about this? Discussing? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov, MP group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u154	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, the trustee group will vote in favour of this bill. And we suggest we join. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u155	Thank you. Please give the word to Black Dmitri Sergiyovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u156	Please hand over the Silencer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u157	Please give it to the Silencer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, it's a simple bill, it's essentially technical. This is a continuation of the reform that you and I implemented in April of this year, Bill 8205: a procedure for the cessation of state-owned enterprises by the State Property Fund. This bill is about to create a special state budget fund to which the cost of selling the assets of such companies that are being cut off, and then from this fund will be covered by the future termination of such enterprises, the cost of termination. So I ask you to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u159	Please give the word to Puziychuku Andriy Viktorovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u160	Ruslan Alexiyovich, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u161	Please, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u162	Thank you, Mr. Head. It's not really a simple question, as colleagues say here. Because it's a part of a more important and deeper question. What are we doing with government property? What should be a part of the state in the administration and in the impact on the economy? What forms should be the influence of the State on the economy: should they be or should they not be? What's more, at such a difficult time that Ukraine is currently experiencing, particularly during the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. Of course, you can practice ideology and give everything to someone who comes and does everything, and we can sit around and smoke cannabis and watch what happens in the country. But I think it's a little bit different from the picture that reflects reality. Do you understand? Before we talk about reducing mass state-owned enterprises, and this is what the newly appointed Head of the State Property Fund said, we need to understand clearly in which areas the state should exercise control. In particular, in Fatherland, we believe that the enterprises of the defence complex should be in exclusive state ownership. In no country in the world does anyone put commercial structures in place for basic contracts related to the security of the state. In the United States, there was a recent case where the company was deprived, more loyally deprived, negotiated with them, and said, "Or your founder, who has Ukrainian roots, will come out of the founders of this company or will deprive you of government contracts in general in the field of defence and security of the state." That, I understand, is the state's position of the United States. Unfortunately, we are offered an unplanned, chaotic approach to the liquidation of state enterprises. Yes, this law of procedure, but let's talk about ideology first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u163	Yes. Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna, "European Solidarity" faction. Dear colleagues, after that we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u164	Please pass the word to my colleague Rostislav Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u165	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, really this bill just seems to be technical. I'd like to talk about two very important aspects that he's referring to. First, we're all in favour of the accuracy of the procedure, we're all talking about what the Rules should be, and we're writing to the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which, for example, in this bill is in violation of one of the issues that we're all so persistently struggling with, that when we're talking about amendments to codes, we need to make changes to codes, not to "transitional positions" or to mention 25 other laws and apply them, all the more by introducing new subjects, by writing new procedures and so on. In principle, if we are to keep the process clean, we need to keep it clean, otherwise we have not tried. And secondly, we have this right here in this bill, but we have a lot of projects going with the right blue flag with the stars. How do these bills become, in fact, priority, Euro-integration? I think that the right way would be to relate them to those specific commitments that we have both with regard to joining the EU and joining NATO is to say that since we do not have specific things to confide in after Vilnius, Parliament could work out those criteria that would allow us to make changes and improvements in legislation here. Agree with partners and really at the Washington summit of NATO to come out with a clear list of what reforms have been done and we need to win NATO membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u167	Thank you. Please, Zabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich. And after that, we vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, we now have more than a thousand state-owned enterprises in liquidation stages that generate billions of damage to the state every year. This is the kind of money that could go into the budget. Do you know how many companies were shut down in 2021? Two. Everyone else continued to generate these losses that we could use for the needs of the army, education and other things. This bill will speed up and allow the process to be eliminated. It actually complements the previous one. But it will allow, including financially speeding up and ensuring that the number of such enterprises will finally begin to decline so that the state will start to profit. Colleagues, I urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. I propose the adoption of a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code in connection with the adoption of the Law on the Specificities of State Enterprises, as decided by the Ukrainian State Property Fund (registration number 9387). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:35:11]] For 248 Decision taken. There is another suggestion: to shorten the deadline for the submission of proposals, the amendments for the preparation of the second reading on the first reading, on the basis of Bill 9387. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:35:40]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill 9384, is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on telemedicine. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[15:36:08]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, why don't we take him in without discussion? Oh, no? Then I consider the matter in a simplified manner. [[15:36:33]] For 216 Decision taken. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, please sign in two in favor, two in favour. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, "European Solidarity." Maria Ionova, please. And then we vote. Colleagues, don't break up. Jonah, please, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u171	Friends, actually the question of telemedicine, it's as important as the medical cannabis, because it's the future. And we have to be very careful here and make the right draft, write it, because the goal is to introduce an integrated and systematic approach to formulation and implementation. And unfortunately, we see that there is a very important observation, something that not only refers to terminology, but, in principle, to the introduction of the concept of "electronic health system" an additional concept of "electronic health care" that does not really overcome problems or is not clear. Incomprehensible. So what's the difference between these two terms? Also, some questions have led to changes to the Health Basics Act, and many have been used in words that really need further clarification. This respects the principles of integrity and inclusion. I mean, in general, I would like to say that there is a very lack of legal certainty and clarity, because this topic, in general the area of health, still needs a clearer formulation, if we want this law to really work and we implement it. And the last. That's what I'm talking about. The purpose of certain terms is to exclude them altogether. And so, let's say, first, for example, when we talk about a single health register, there's no connection at all to telemedicine. So for the second reading, it's very important to work comprehensively so that there are clear definitions, and we realize that telemedicine in our country is going to work and be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u172	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on registration number 9384, amending some Ukrainian legislation on the functioning of telemedicine. Please vote. [[15:39:45]] For 245 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] We have further decisions, there's nothing left to move on, Andriy Viktorovich. What are you going to do? We have three orders left. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's urgent. Okay, I'll propose then. Dear colleagues, there's a proposal, we've adopted a number of fine drafts in the second reading today, in general, on the decree and so forth. Therefore, I propose that the President of Ukraine should immediately sign the bills adopted today by the Supreme Council as a whole and send them to the President of Ukraine immediately. If there's no objection, I'll put the motion to a vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[15:40:42]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have three decisions to block. 8401. There is an offer of them without discussing. No, it's not. And there are the authors of the decrees, they want to speak. All right, then let's give the authors a word. Let's move on to question 8401-P. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.06. 2023 on the adoption, in second reading and in whole, of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian laws on the characteristics of taxation during the war period. Do we have to vote on a reduced procedure? The camera, can you give me a hint? There's no need to vote the procedure, there is. Okay, then let's move on to the question. Please give the floor to the authors of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u173	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, what are double standards? It's when you don't take a few months into the House Order to Return 30,000 to the Armed Forces, for which 277 Ukrainian national deputies voted, telling us what the Army asked us not to do. When asked not to do business and not to take the 8401 Order to the Hall, she appeared at the next meeting. These are double standards. I had the opportunity to communicate with my colleagues in the morning with representatives of small and medium business. What you took was a huge mistake. What is called risk tests will be carried out in fact in 90 percent of those who now provide our state’s budget. It included one of the businessmen, the little businessmen, who says he's from the Horn of Curve, he's got a small shop, he's 10 kilometers from the front line, and now he's helping to rebuild technology, the jeep technology for our defenders. His shop, which you are trying to tax and run the RRO, is 300 miles [600 km] away. It's called a lack of conscience, it's called a lack of understanding of processes, it's called that probably a lot of people don't belong where they are today. I am sure that the mistakes that have been made will still be very strong in response to the Ukrainian economy and the Ukrainian state. And anyone who voted in favour of 8401 will have to answer both to the army and to the business. And now I ask you to support our determination and to make a decision is a disgraceful one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u174	Thank you. There are no more who would like to discuss it? Then let's go to the vote. Discussion? Please, "European Solidarity," which one of you? Who else is there? Come on, two in, two in, two in, two in. "Serve of the people," please, Bragar.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u175	Friends, a very important bill, please don't delay and "fall" this decree and proceed to signing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u176	Thank you. "European Solidarity," who will it be from you? Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, the fact that you have started a divorce is more loyal to those who have left the hall. And you, Mr. Vice Speaker, when you're not so big, you're not paying attention to these regulations, you're also talking about what you don't understand and you don't read your mail. I'd like to address each and every one of you here. How many letters from city councils, how many decisions do you have in your mailboxes? I counted 120 this morning. 120 city councils decided to appeal to Stefanchuk, the President, to veto 8401. Please tell me, what about decentralization? You all say, you jump around that word. Decentralization means that we grant the right to the city council, city councils, to make decisions regarding their powers. As far as the natural persons who are entrepreneurs are concerned. Paying a single tax is a resource, a local tax, a resource of the local government. And when the local authorities make such a request to you, can you at least read their petitions? This is the time and decision of the deputies that people have chosen in places, and who else should they turn to besides the local deputies? So I'm pointing out that no matter what, we've all supported a possible return from 2 percent to the end of the war to a generally simplified general tax system. But what you haven't heard from 1 million 200 entrepreneurs is just a matter of immediate resolution and now there's a possibility. Let's support the ruling, review the decisions on these people, make it possible not to apply the fines until the end of the military time. And it's going to be at least the same position for everyone. Why are you putting in 1 million 200 people at all? It's part of the economy, it's part of the local economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u178	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. And we're going to go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u179	Thank you, sir. Today we have a lot of legislation that we accept. Which on the one hand look like technical, but actually on the other hand, they have a lot of strategic questions. Bill 8401, business has already been described as terrible for business. So small business has determined that this bill will strike at their positions, at their capabilities, and so forth. But this bill on, let's say, the attitude of the state today to business. About what we promised first one, then looked at, said, now we're changing again, we're changing something again in a month. And each time, all these changes are not positive, but negative. What we need is business, we talk a lot about investment. What does business need? Business needs stability, business needs clear rules. Business needs to be able to predict, I don't say for five years, but for two or three years. Unfortunately, we're taking away the opportunity in business to make these predictions and actually predict anything in our business. Because we're setting some rules today, Mr. President says we need to set them up, Parliament supports them in six months, three months from now we're saying no, we need to change those rules again. That's the worst thing that could happen. I'm not going to count the shortcomings of Bill 8401 that everybody knows. Today, several national deputies, including members of the Fatherland faction, have made a decision that has blocked this decision because we believe that Bill 8401 in the form in which it was adopted will harm Ukraine's small and medium-sized business.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u180	Nestor Ivanovich has you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, every Ukrainian national MP has the right to order the end of the voting, and our colleagues have benefited from that right, and the right of Ukrainian national deputies to determine. I therefore invite and ask that the voting procedure itself be voted on as soon as possible and that it is possible for the people's deputies to determine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u182	Let's go to the vote. I'm betting on the vote to accept the whole draft Decree with registration number 8401-P repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.06. 2023 on the adoption, in second reading and in whole, of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and other Ukrainian laws on the characteristics of taxation during the war period (registration number 7401), from 31.01.2023. Please vote. [[15:50:39]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next order with registration number 8401-P1 draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.06. 2023 on the adoption, in second reading and in whole, of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and other Ukrainian laws on the characteristics of taxation during the war period (register. No.8401 from 31.01.2023). Is there a need to discuss? Please invite Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u183	Colleagues, the Supreme Council made a mistake, she didn't hear, she didn't communicate, she didn't hear her citizens. In this case, I'm talking about entrepreneurs who called and shouted that the bill should not be accepted in the paper where it was finally adopted. Among the first and second readings were very many correct novels, correct suggestions, correct rights, which were primarily provided by our national local business. He suggested how to improve it, but unfortunately this did not happen. Colleagues, I remind you that a restraining order does not stand for a bill as a whole. He only cancels the last decision in the second reading and then we can go back to looking at those rights that were unfortunately rejected or not heard during the vote between the first and the second readings. Colleagues, I would like you to hear from our entrepreneur. It primarily provides for our economy and primarily provides our defence forces, which allows us to discuss this with you and to vote on any initiative that is primarily directed towards the development of Ukraine. So let's support our business, support our army and support Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u184	Thank you. Shall we go to the vote? Yeah. Discussion? Then write it down: two in, two in, two in. Please, Vladlen Mikhailovich Nekludov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u185	Yeah, I want to say a few words, too. So we hear from our colleagues that we didn't do anything, that we didn't communicate. I just want to invite you. ask: and what are we going to do, where are we going to take the money to finance all the projects that are, to finance our economy, to finance the USSR? Where do we get this money? Too many words, too few suggestions. And so I think that these manipulations need to be completed and moved on to real things. So I propose, as Nestor Ivanovich said, that I decide and make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u186	Thank you, Vladlen Mikhailovich. European Solidarity, please, Joanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u187	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u188	Please, Sophia Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u189	First of all, I'm talking to Ukrainians who are going to be watching somewhere, maybe in the middle of the night of the Supreme Council meeting, which is now two-thirds of an empty Council, because it's not interesting for the people's deputies to discuss the issue of tens of thousands, if not more, of the individual entrepreneurs, particularly those who are now being put in the hands of the authorities, the source of repression and fines, despite the fact that it is the FOP that will not be the biggest complaint to our Armed Forces, that our defence forces have the resources to protect the Ukrainian state. I agree with Ben Wallace’s words that we should know how to be grateful, we should be able to thank, not only by words, but rather by actions. The FOPs from the first minutes of the war in 2014 helped the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and so did the following years. Since the first minutes of the full-scale invasion, where the volunteers have been taking money for helmets, armors that have never been found in government warehouses? Where did the volunteers take, and now they're taking, the money to buy mowcs, ammunition, currents, even products they're sending to the front? That's what the FOPs do. And of course, the state and the authorities decided to thank them for lowering their checks, and from October 1st they start to waste their fines. But you've all made a mess of it! Because now these people need to get on their feet and apologize, and thank them for all the help, because they are, in particular, the foundation of our state. And by destroying the foundations of the economy, the foundations of our state, the foundations of assistance to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. This bill, in particular, you're doing everything you can to make Ukraine lose. Well, traitors are traitors. It's just too bad they're too many in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u190	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Did they mention you? Just from Voice? Please, Cabal, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, the previous reporter said that we should be grateful to the FOPs. We really need to be grateful. But we should also be grateful to all taxpayers. And I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the nearly 10 million Ukrainians who pay 34 percent of their taxes from their payroll fund, including the only social contribution that allows us to finance the army. 34 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u192	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? Yes. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the entire draft Decree (8401-P1) repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 30.06. 2023 on the adoption, in second reading and in whole, of the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation and other laws of Ukraine on the speciality of taxation during the war period (registration number 8401 of 31.01.2023). Please vote. [[15:57:58]] For-46 The decision is not taken. The factions. And the third decision. Is there a need to discuss? Okay. Let us also consider this determination. Please enter, then, 8401-P2, the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other laws on the specificity of taxation during the war period (8401 of 31.01.2023). Please sign two in, two in, and no. Please, Shpak Love Alexiyevna, "Serve of the People." Alexandrov, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u193	In fact, this room now shows that interest in small and medium - size business is being shown today by the national MPs. I have a question for all of you. Why do you hate small and medium business so much? Small and medium-sized businesses are the foundation of any country's economy. Either you don't understand the economy, or you don't want to develop our country. If we take all the business that's been helping our Ukrainian Armed Forces for the day, they're holding this defense, they're going to war, they're going to the front, they're going to the front, they're going to the front. And if we're going to introduce the RRO now from October 1st, and according to those who are fighting, how are they going to get out of this situation? How can they continue to work today? We don't mind, for example, some say, RRO, but not during the war. You can see how a small and medium-sized business can survive now is simply going abroad. It's very simple. Many businesses have now moved to Poland, Bulgaria, and other countries. And you want this to go on? Then again, how are we going to fill the budget? That is, it seems that no one wants to grasp this question, only their own interests. I can’t even understand what everyone’s interests are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u194	Thank you, Love Alexandrovna. Nina Petrovn Jujanin, I take it, yes, from "European Solidarity"? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u195	Thank you all for staying in the hall, but I want to turn to the authorities right now. First of all, there is still no text of the draft law that we voted on the Supreme Council website. I'm going to put it on my own now, because during these two weeks, it's just a country full of messes. Many consulting companies have consulted and intimidated virtually everyone there who will be vetted without reading the text of the law. And I think instead of giving more information now, more explanations, the authorities are doing everything exactly the opposite. And that doesn't lead to a loss of love for you there, no, it's not in the people anymore, it's quite obvious, it's chaos that's now being born among entrepreneurs and business and even medium and large. So it's important that you continue to communicate clearly and clearly with the business community. The other one. In order for the authorities to have the courage and still to make the most of the allegations recently reported by a representative of the IMF Fund in Ukraine, he said that they would still look at the form of the 8401, whether it was in line with the agreements and so on. So so that you don't go back to the hall to vote even worse on this bill, now you need to get together with strength and not sit there and wait for the end of something, but work with the IMF about what was done in the hall. Sad to say, entrepreneurs today are few who can support you in what you have consulted local councils, decisions that have been taken by local councils. I am very sorry that we have not learned to be alone in our country and that during the war we are incorrigibly hurting those who are shaping our local budgets and helping the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-13-m0.u196	Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose a motion for a vote to be adopted as a whole by Decree No. 8401-P2 on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act amending the Code of Taxation and other laws of Ukraine on the characteristics of taxation during the period of the state of war (Registration No. 8401) (from 31.01.2023). Please vote. [[16:03:37]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report on the creation of the Ninth Interfractional Union of Ukrainian Rehabilitation Forces in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Taras Petrovich Tarasenko, was elected head of this association. Let's say hello to our colleague. Nice work on such an important field as the rehabilitation of our soldiers and our fellow citizens. People’s deputies, respected colleagues, the day - to - day consideration of matters of order has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. I announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I would like to remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information on its beginning, its passage, its completion and other logical elements of the next plenary meeting. We believe in our Defense Force, together to victory! Glory to Ukraine!
