ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the ruling we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today we continue our plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament before an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. In the event of an air alarm, there will be a pause in the plenary and we all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is now 17 months of extensive Russian aggression against Ukraine. The Ukrainian people and their heroic armies continue to stand firm for the sovereignty of Ukraine, our democratic values and the right to choose their own course of development. Everlasting honor and glory to all the defenders and defenders of Ukraine who daily bring their lives, health on the altar of freedom, and the independence of Ukraine’s territorial value. I ask you to honor the moment of silence of the memory of all our heroes who gave their lives for Ukraine and its victory, as well as of all the peaceful citizens who died at the hands of the Russian invaders. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, please sit down. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the honourable national deputies of Ukraine are requested to hold a signal vote before the question begins. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button and press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. Please vote. [[12:24:15.]] For 248 Against - 5, held - 4. It's all the same. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, I reiterate my call to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information on the progress of the plenary session, decisions taken in Parliament before the hour of the conclusion of our work. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council is given to you. Let us go to their consideration. The first question is Bill 8139. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on the supply of marine search and rescue vessels, equipment and equipment to conduct search and rescue operations at sea in accordance with Ukraine's international agreements. Now, colleagues, one second. I'll be right there. I've got all the documents I need. I'm asking you to wait a second. All these Bills 8139 and all the alternatives to it are included in the agenda, so I suggest you consider all of these issues in a simplified procedure. I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:26:07]] For 218. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, right away: two in favor, two in favour? Please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u2	Mr. Head, please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u3	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u4	"European Solidarity" will clearly support this bill, because all that strengthens the Armed Forces of Ukraine is to have clear support from all national MPs and from society. But today I would like to raise other questions in this context. We are now giving good for the sweeping and unhindered importation of foreign boats at the same time that we are destroying simply, and more precisely, the monarchy is destroying the domestic manufacturer, such as "Kuzna na Rybalski" and this is also true of other domestic manufacturers of military production for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I'm going to remind you that those boats that were judged for so long, which were considered inequitable, for which they were repressing the designers, the manufacturer, the Kuzuń na Rybalski, at the time of the invasion, suddenly became absolutely quality, were all placed on the bill of account of the Ministry of Defence, the Ukrainian Navy Force. Then they were misexploited; they were destroyed by Moscow shells near the island of Snakes and near Odessa; and now the state demands compensation from the enterprise, it turns out, for its damage, for the loss of boats. Yes, I'm sorry, who is the enemy in our country, or is it the Moscow Federation? N, for the official Ukrainian state, suddenly enemies are the "Kozna na Rybalski", its manufacturer. But the same is true of the Orders of Stigs and Korsars, which are not required by the Ministry of Defense, because they order "Computers" and "Fagots" which are much lower in quality, but are twice as expensive as "Stands" and "Corsars" that have a better effect. So, dear society, I would very much like us to focus now on supporting the country's producer, on developing the Ukrainian defence industry, on jobs and on strengthening the Ukrainian Armed Forces by the forces of Ukraine, not by looting.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u5	Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the "Voice" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u6	Give me the word of Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u7	Please, Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, this bill and the next bill will be supported because it allows us to withdraw taxes and duties in order to bring in the necessary marine protection boats. But in general, if we want to have a maritime theme, let's look at the marine theme as a whole and what these boats will be used for. I would like to draw your attention to corruption at sea, unfortunately, and it flourishes in virtually all organs that care for both maritime security and safety, as well as in general the business wing of the sea. So I'm drawing your attention, colleagues, that the sea requires reform, unfortunately, the graduation of sailors, is also a major problem. Despite the fact that we adopted a bill with you almost a year and a half ago, all of this is blocked at the level of the courts, the executive branch. So in fact, the sea is blocked not only by the Russians but by our own domestic corruptionists. So let's not just look at this part when we bring imported boats without myths and taxes, yes, we need them now. But let's see how we continue to build our fleet, how we will continue to build our boats, how we will protect our sea, and how we will work at sea without corruption and without bribery, and the harassment that thrives there, simply and flourished there better than Dnipro now. So let's still do more systematically with these reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, please finish Nestor's speech. And please, there's gonna be a Cymbaluk, right? Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, two minutes. Then Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, one minute and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear Sir, dear colleagues, what is this about? This is the corresponding supply of certain special products under international agreements made by the competent authorities of Ukraine. This is about rescue ships that need urgent construction, which no one can immediately build. So we're not going to get them immediately from a domestic manufacturer. And what's the domestic manufacturer doing here? Special agents, who will now help all of us, understand who they will help, certainly should not be subject to extra taxes. So if we don't adopt this law, it turns out that the state will tax itself. It's not commercial supplies, it's supplies for our nation, it's for security, and it's for our rescue workers. So I think that this law needs to be raised, and everything else is said to be from the wicked one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, please, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. And then we're going to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u12	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the National Deputies! The "Fatherland" faction will definitely support this important bill on the basis of the first reading. We are convinced that all the goods, equipment related to seagoing vessels, and the training and equipment of the teams that will work in these units must be released. But it's very important that you give us tax codes to import this equipment for the second reading of the Cabinet of Ministers. We need to place a safety net so that no other codes can be introduced under this brand, more faithfully other goods under other codes that do not apply to the subject matter of this bill. We are confident that we need to support our naval forces and the teams that will carry out them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let's move on to the decision-making process, please prepare. I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to support activities in the protection of human life at sea in accordance with Ukraine's international agreements, in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote. [[12:34:28]] For 276 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next bill, 8176. This is a draft law amending article 197 of the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Protection of Human Life at Sea in accordance with Ukraine’s international agreements. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:35:05]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two for, two for, no, please sign up. Please, Kultenko Artem Valeriovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Andrew Motovilovtsa.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u15	Andrew Motovlovec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u16	Friends, big day, big vote. We ask you to support this bill and move on to the basic law of the agenda – 8401. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u17	Please, the Cubans, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, please pass the word to Mrs. Irina Friz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u19	Please, Mrs. Irina Friz.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u20	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, these two bills are binding, and we have not really been tired of thanking both the world and our international partners for Ukraine’s support in these difficult times. At the moment, we have a situation, no matter who says, of exemption from the customs of imported products, which puts the national producer in unequal conditions. And here I support previous speakers who stressed the need to control the import of this product and use it accordingly. And we'd also like to talk about that if we keep standing with our hand out and waiting for help, rather than developing a domestic branch, especially a shipbuilding industry, we will never build our own maritime security, which will depend solely on the state and work for the state. Today's fines are due to representatives. The shipbuilding industry is up to a billion companies, and they are actually related to, and are stockpiled not by the company's fault, but by the fact that the customer is the Ministry of Defence, the State has not paid in time and has failed to ensure that components and dams are cleared for contracts and orders made with the Ministry of Defence. It's an unacceptable thing, and it's primarily about the leader of the shipbuilding industry of Kuzni in Fishing. We have to stop making money by importing only products that we can produce ourselves, and by allowing us to really get on our feet and be independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final performance. Bacunec Pavel Andriyovich, Deputy Group "Trust". And then we'll vote, dear colleagues. Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head, national electorate, dear Ukrainian people! The country is in a state of war, a difficult trial, and any thing that will help the brave Ukrainians win the victory should definitely come to our territory without import duty, clearly they need to simplify taxation. And that's right. And it's not just about boats, it's about boats. We're also talking about air, and we're waiting for international partners to give us, in fact, what we need are exterminators for our successful, actually counterattack and victory. But it's also important, and I want to point out the cars for our military. Each of you knows that during the past year, every military unit is actually already provided with cars, so - called jeeps, which almost every military officer needs. And they can't all be put on balance by the military, and the military wants to have them and move on them properly. And that's why we also need to consider a bill that actually allows zero blurry for the military. It's the right thing to do, it's the right thing to do to meet our bravest. They would definitely import the cars they want, not pay their duties and taxes for them, and use them properly for you and all the Ukrainians and the whole world to win. Take this step to meet our military personnel. Praise the Armed Forces! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u23	Heroic glory! Please, Ironman, and then we'll finish. Please prepare for the vote. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I think a fellow Motovilovist has not made all the arguments, so please give him the floor to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u25	Jaroslav Ivanovich, are you all right with this? Thank you for your performance. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'm asking the people's deputies. Prepare for the vote, excuse me, prepare for the vote. Honorary colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending article 197 of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation for the Protection of Human Life at Sea in accordance with the international agreements of Ukraine (registration No. 8176). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:42:08]] For 273 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill we agreed on the Conciliation Council, without discussion. Therefore, the parliamentary factions and groups of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call pursuant to articles 50, 96 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure addressed me with a letter on the urgent need for Parliament's parliamentary review on 30 June 2023 of the draft Ukrainian Law (Registrational Number 9440) amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the work of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the application of the ad hoc procedure, the Comparative Council of Deputatory factions and groups agreed on an urgent consideration of the matter. Therefore, it is suggested that we move on to making a decision. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (registration number 9440) to amend certain laws of Ukraine regarding the work of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[12:43:13]] For 262 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to define an immediate bill (registration number 9440) to amend certain laws of Ukraine concerning the work of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of the consideration of the matter and to review today at the meeting. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:43:49]] For 252 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to discuss a bill with a reduced procedure. Please vote. I'm sorry, we don't need a shortcut, we agreed without talking. I'm sorry. It's a mistake. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 9440) amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the work of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We'll take that as a base. Please vote. [[12:44:33]] For 252 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Law (Registration No. 9440) amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the work of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:45:03]] For 253 Decision taken. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u26	Colleagues, taking into account the strict terms, I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council immediately sign a bill adopted as a whole by the Supreme Council for registration number 9440 and immediately send it to the President of Ukraine for signature. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please vote. [[12:45:39]] For 253 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, from the Eutushka procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u28	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Mr. Head, I address you. First of all, our position as a faction, the consistent position is to ask you to hold a meeting with the committee heads, because our state position is to go offline, not online, how we work now, and vote now. I also urge you and ask that we do not look at key laws relating to defence or education, or the social committee, where every number affects the lives of Ukrainian citizens, sitting in a car, but looking clearly at the tables in the committee meeting, not online, but offline. So please hold a meeting, gather the committee heads and return the normal work to Parliament. That's our principle position as Fatherland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u29	Okay. Dear colleagues, I can then ask Alexander Sergiyovich to hold such a meeting. I think he's gonna do it, get everybody together and organize it. Thank you. Please, Motovilover.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u30	I'm asking you to consider changing the order. Take out the daily bill 8290 and put it to a vote on the cleaning order of 8290 due to what we learned about what they wanted to put in it, remember with the rights of 150 confirmation rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 8290. Of course, clean up the day. There is an offer to support what Andriy Viktorovich said. I'm putting Motovilovite on the vote. Please vote. [[12:47:56]] For 278 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I've had a statement from two MP factions, this is the "For the Future" faction, yes, and the "European Solidarity" statement that there's a break with a replacement for the performance. Who's it gonna be? Sergei Alekseyev, right? Please, Sergey Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, have to point out that in Ukraine political persecutions have returned, which unfortunately are being carried out through the DBR and BSS, which are now to be handled by Russian agents, not to rush into opposition MPs at night. I am in front of you in this rostrum to answer all the questions as openly as possible. It's about a case that Alexeiev, Boyarczuk and partners have been running for over two years. A drug addict waiting to be extradited to Germany, by the way, a German citizen, for drug trafficking, and used by the D.B.I. and the B.B.I.A., its weak positions, in exchange for hiding in Ukraine from criminal persecution in Germany. I would like to emphasize that the funds were received for my former partner, a lawyer who died on that very day, unfortunately, and within the framework of a contract with a law firm. I can assure you that a bribe is not even a charge. Instead, I am trying to incriminate fraud that can't withstand any criticism because it was paid for nearly two years of lawyer work. I'm honestly looking you in the eye right now, and I'm doing everything I can to protect my honour and dignity. I think it's political persecution. Thank you for your attention and for your understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, we move on to the next issue of agenda 8401. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian laws on the characteristics of taxation during the war period. I invite Danil Alexanderovich to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, we agreed on factions. There's going to be a lot of talk from the "ES" faction, there's going to be a lot of performances from the "Fatherland" faction, and then there's going to be someone else who's going to make adjustments. We've already asked the question, Dmitri Alexanderovich. We've already asked the question, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Thank you. What do you want, Dmitri Alexanderovich? From the procedure? Please, Clever out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u34	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. I sent you a letter in accordance with the rules in force. The table of rights and proposals for second reading of the bill should be given to the people’s deputies 10 days before the meeting. I understand that there are various questions. There's a few rights. And we're going to work together and we're going in, and we're looking at these issues in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this case, the table has 2,000 lines. To consider it today is, to put it mildly, alogically, since the committee only passed at 10 a.m. How can you handle 2,000 lines? Moreover, the chart appeared two days ago. So I'm asking you to take this question down. Place a motion for a vote. If it has the required number of votes, it shall be carried out in accordance with the Rules. If not, go to your request. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u35	Dmitri Alexanderovich, look, first of all, we came into the question, and we took a picture of the question that we got into -- it's not in accordance with the Rules. The other one. To make such suggestions, we must follow these logics as a minimum. I have here a great deal of help regarding those bills that you considered to be the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in one day, in two days, on the same day. So let's get out of the fact that we now need to be very helpful with this bill to the financial system of Ukraine. Thank you. We're moving on to the question. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please invite Danil Alexanderovich. So we're going to have five minutes from the "ES" faction. Here we go. Fedina Sofia Romanovna. Five minutes of the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u36	Thank you. In fact, this bill has caused such a huge storm in the business environment that if you heard what curses are echoing at the address and heads of the committee now behind the rostrum, and at the address of the Supreme Council, and at the address of the monarchy, you would probably be surprised because you haven't even heard such words. Entrepreneurs point out that Bill 8401, in its original form, was designed to completely destroy all small business in Ukraine. And I'm really sorry that this negotiation process is so difficult, it's so difficult to get all of these rules back together, because not to hear entrepreneurs, not to want to understand business, not want to end up filling up with a fine -- it's just to be a completely honest traitor to our Ukrainian state. We are stressed that 8401 is critical in order to fill the state budget. But, society, by destroying business, or by cleaning up FOPs, we will fill the budget? And did you know that in 2021, the state tried and destroyed half a million FOPs, the FOPs, who were forced to shut down because of the pressure of the state, not just because of the circumstances that it was, but because the official structures were doing everything they could to prevent small businesses and entrepreneurs from doing so? I'm very sorry that yesterday at a meeting on this bill, I'm asking my colleagues to listen, and especially the FOPs to record and pay attention, at this meeting they agreed to remove the checks, ease the situation for legal persons, and the FOPs were presented as outright evil, because it turns out that FOPs are guilty of corruption in the Ukrainian state. FOPs have been accused of what you can see, large retail networks of the type of construction supermarkets form their products through the FOPs. So instead of solving this issue with large networks, instead of developing a mechanism of how you can secure yourself from exactly this way of tax evasion, the state at the head and with Minfin, and with the committee somehow decides to restore the FOPs. And if you think that the tests, the postponement of the RRO by October 1st is good, in fact, you would have to talk again directly to people who pay taxes, who don't mind returning to the same 5 percent, but who ask to be able to create jobs to give them the opportunity to feed their families. And finally, only an idiot can't understand that small business is as basic as the Ukrainian state. Society, do you also know that we now have about 8 million people who have left the Ukrainian state, among whom are many and FOPs? Well, of course, there's a committee's head and deputies who don't give a shit about everything because they're doing their culinary negotiations. But in fact, those who have left, very few of them will return, and as a minimum, in the near future, their businesses either closed down because of their departure, or were destroyed by Moscow aggression. We can now talk about the reality that the population of Ukraine has dropped dramatically because of everything that's going on. And now they're destroying that part of Ukrainian society that can, by its efforts, without the support of the state, create jobs, fill the budget, and be able to survive, stay in Ukraine. By the way, to all those who want to reinstate FOP checks and fines, I would also like to remind them that it is the FOPs that are heating up, helping the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The first months of the invasion they worked for, in general, without their own income to provide for the brigades, the units, and now they're being made guilty of the mono-government of mega-corruption in the Ukrainian state. And you're asking, where do you get the money if it's not from the FOPs? Where do you get the money if not from business? Why don't you start looking into the 9 billion stolen through the Ministry of Defense? Why don't you start looking at "Egg 17 and Apple 50"? Or do you remember yesterday, when you were lulling, groaning, you failed to get 90 billion dollars from the Armed Forces of Ukraine? Of course, you are more likely to inflate your own pockets. But we now have numerous appeals of councils from various parts of Ukraine, and that's why I would tell the Mayors of "The Servants of the People" then when I came to the county.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u37	Nina Petrovna, please. Five minutes of Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u38	Honorable colleagues, a very difficult situation, because when different decisions were made during the war in March 2022, the authorities made mistakes. Because she said that these changes would take effect throughout the war. And it's very obvious that everyone's planning on doing business, everyone's focused on those financial models that we've set up here by the members of the Supreme Council. Just so you know, only our incoherence and the frequent change in tax legislation is holding back, including foreign investments that could work in Ukraine. Of course, our Ukrainian investor is adapted to what may surprise him at any time. But see how it became evident that what they disagreed with from a small to a large entrepreneur is the pressure of the law enforcement system, the tax system on their activities. This has not been the case today, but it has been the case for the past two years, but it has taken such a turn that usually those who have been silent and have never reported, especially at meetings with the President, open information, have not held back yesterday and have expressed their full opinion that it is impossible to tolerate it more in the country. But it's a shame the president isn't aware of it. And I repeat, it's not the last months of the war, it's not the last months of the war, it's started to develop. And it was very sad to see yesterday, as it were, and to see information about what the President was promising someone, without even knowing that a new, single body was actually created to fight economic crime, which, by falling into the hall, was passed with an inapplicable draft law that was being implemented in general in a way that was generally acceptable to the tax police, not to the only body to fight economic crime. The fact that all law enforcement authorities continue to be tested on economic issues, even on tax matters, and nothing has changed. And that's all the craziness that led the business to the fact that they were just talking to the President at the meeting, that they were allowed to stay in Ukraine. We'll talk about the meeting, because the cornerstone is that, as always, small and small business is never represented. I think it's our biggest mistake, because even when medium-sized enterprises couldn't work in the first months of the war, it was entrepreneurs who kept doing it. It was the entrepreneurs who took all their material resources, the material supplies that they had placed in different locations for this joint assistance and for the common protection of the country. And now we don't take into account the sacrifices they made in their time and continue to make. As far as the bill is concerned. When we talk about his initial condition or his standardization, and what's at the moment, it's really two big differences. But when it comes to small businesses, like they always don't have lawyers, they don't have any protection. And this is where our tax service is supposed to work, which is supposed to provide information, our committee, which continues to refer contemptuously to individuals who are entrepreneurs, who never ask questions about them. And thank God that we have managed to make some standards mitigating for entrepreneurs, but the main thing remains. I just want to give you figures, if anyone thinks it's nothing, then we have 2 million people on June 1, 2023, individuals who are entrepreneurs, on a simplified system, one and a half million. Of these, 1 and 2 groups of 764 thousand, these are people -- 764 thousand -- these are the jobs of these people, I don't even take 3 groups. And you're saying that they deserve less respect than the businesses that created 200-300 jobs, a great respect and respect for these legal persons. But look, it's a million people who created jobs for themselves and we can't make conditions for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u39	Thank you, Nina Petrovna, and you still wanted to make allowances. Are you going to bet now? Have you discussed them yet, Nina Petrovna? I don't see Nina Petrovna. Turn on Nina's Petra microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u40	I'm going to put some of my amendments into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u41	Please give me the numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u42	Right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u43	We can do it now, we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u44	Yeah, hold on. Then let someone do the show, I'll get ready for the numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u45	Who's next? Arthur Gerasimov has us, yet he wanted us to. Yes, please, five minutes of Gerasim, and Nina Petrovna will mention the numbers for now. Colleagues, get ready, we'll vote straight in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! In order not to waste time, almost all the amendments made by "European Solidarity" involved improving the law, as well as our factions in the Parliament Hall, in order to show that this law could make Ukraine's business more difficult. That's right. I'll just give you a few numbers. According to the European Business Association survey, the literal text: "Small and medium-sized businesses are increasingly affected by the economic consequences of Russian aggression. During the past six months, losses caused by war have increased significantly in small, medium - size business. In addition, there is a growing percentage of enterprises that do not have sufficient financial resources to boost the financial stability of small businesses." Besides, you know what's interesting? The study was also completed in April 23rd on the state and needs of small and medium-sized businesses supported by Action. Business, M.C., Mineconomy, Minfin, etc., et cetera. So according to this study, they analyzed the business activity index. So the data on this index shows that business is tired of uncertainty and the desire to step up, not from improving the economic situation, but from the fact that there is now complete uncertainty about what the business is waiting for. In addition, interesting data from the same study used by Mincifera. According to the results of 2022, 32 percent of businesses have completely or almost completely stopped their jobs. Business results in 2022: 83 percent of enterprises have decreased, and 83 percent have decreased. You just have to think about these numbers. In addition, I would like to say that the average expected rate of business turnover in 2023 versus 2022 fell from 10 percent, attention, the average expected rate of business turnover in 2023 to less than 2 percent, is an estimate in April. What happened to us in February — April? Again, the pressures on business do not see the prospects of more than 20 percent of businesses. They realize that business is either not going to work or they're going to work between 5 and 50 percent of last year's turnover. What prevents business from being restored? Of course, we understand that, first of all, war, but the lack of enough pay-as-you-go customers, the unpredictability of the situation in Ukraine and the internal market, the key – the internal market and the unforeseeable actions of the state that can make business worse, and one of the main reasons – the obstacles by regulators and fiscal authorities. And at the same time, you just look, I've always said that business is much more socially responsible than government, because more than 90 percent of businesses are now involved in helping the country during the war, including 65 percent of them are aiding the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And now, attention, Danilo Aleksandrovitch answered my question, said that there was no problem with blocking tax receipts. So a study conducted under the auspices of Mincirpha and Mineconomy, and Minfina says that almost 50 percent of businesses, and this has increased by almost 10 percent relative to February, have encountered the problem of blocking tax receipts. And you know, I have a lot of specific cases, but basically, because there's no time now, then I'm going to go to Danil Alexanderovich and all these specific cases with the names of the company, with the names, with this impeccable tax display. What should we do? In addition to the fact that "European Solidarity" has managed with other factions of opposition, we still have not been able to eradicate positive changes to this law because of the majority position. But the key is to talk about increasing the responsibility of the control bodies, about changing administration, at least in individual processes, so that it becomes more transparent and automated. Finally, I will give a very simple example of why the laws of opposition do not apply in the hall. Number 7591, remember this issue of the bill. Thus, it is stipulated that in the event of a systematic annulment of the court’s decision. systematic infringements and improper decisions made by taxpayers, and this is proved by the court’s conclusion and evidence that these taxpayers will be relieved of their duties. And somehow this bill won't miss it. That is why we are grateful to all who have fought for the rights of entrepreneurs, FOPs, small, medium-sized businesses in this law, and the fight will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u47	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Nina Petrovna, you've already mentioned the numbers, haven't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u48	God forbid, Mr. Alexander, remember when you've been working on the project for over three months day and night, you understand? Just so you can remember. Since the draft law has been completely changed: the changed table, the changed standards that are included in the committee amendments, your amendments and your proposals, are very good. But now to be confirmed, I'm going to put, Mr. Danilo, just two corrections on accounting, 1634 and 1635, if that's how they are, on the use of qualified electronic signatures in the RRO. Now I'm saying one thing: 1634. I just insist that we stop with you right now and think about what to do next with the mandatory introduction of RRO and PRRO. I know that for all things it seems that nonapplication is the greatest evil, and this avoids the calculation of the goods that are being sold. But when the system isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u49	Please, I am putting to the vote number 1634 of the national deputies of Jujanina and colleagues, which has been rejected by the committee. I'd like to make a statement. Please vote. [[13:10:37]] For-50 The decision is not taken. The edit remains rejected. 1635 The People’s Deputy’s Deputy and Colleagues It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. Another minute? Please give me another minute for 1635 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, as in the EVA system, there is now a real arbitrary event, because, even if you take the latest data in May, 189 thousand payers have registered tax receipts, 190,000 tax receipts have been blocked. Get your hands off me, please! Let's go to putting PRRO and RRO into place when we actually realize that this system is giving something. If it gives nothing but abuse of entrepreneurs and fines that will be renewed after October 1, 2023, then there is no point. Let's work and create absolutely adequate conditions by October 1st, or to track down those who work for optimisation as a FOP, and to ensure control, real control that gives both entrepreneurs and the PRRO state.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u51	Amendment 1635 is the authorship of Nina Petrovna, she was rejected by the committee. She's asking for this amendment to be taken into account. Please vote. [[13:12:26]] For-52 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u52	And who's further from "European Solidarity"? Honcherenko Alexiyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u53	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko. Dear friends, first of all, before we move on to this very important economic law, I would like to welcome all of you, all of us: the law we passed on vacations for military personnel, the payment to military personnel, just signed by the President of Ukraine. I welcome all of you, this is an extremely important law. I am absolutely happy that I was able to be one of the authors of this law and that we are with you. Friends, this is an example of how we can unite around the key topics that the army and our victory are without question, and by unifying ourselves to give a result for people, a fantastic result: all military personnel take vacations instead of 10 days as they had, 30 days plus 10 days under family conditions, without taking the time to travel. This issue was also resolved separately by experts who did not have any at all during the war, and so did the classmates. By and by 30 days of vacation, extra fees to the students, to the experts, are limited. A particular topic is limited to suitable people who gave up their health for the state, but only got 700 or 800 dollars a month, today they're going to get over 20,000. And it's a colossal scrape, and it's very important that this is done. Injured 100,000 dollars during treatment for their fighting injuries. To the instructors, to the gold fund of the U.S.S.S.A., pay 15 to 30 grand a month. Friends, it's all today that you and I have been able to decide together. And I urge that we continue to do so. Together, together, the questions that apply to the military so that we can move forward. And I urge the President to sign another very important Law 8009, already voted by us, which gives the right to demobilization to those whose loved ones have died or have disappeared as a result of this invasion. For almost two months now, this law has not been signed, it is beyond the limits defined in the Constitution. And I'm addressing the President, and I'm asking you how he signed this very important law for military personnel to sign that law. It's very important. And, of course, friends, our task is to go to the debate on demobilization. My bill, which envisions demobilization after 18 months of service, is in the Supreme Council. Let's start the discussion, let's work it out if we have to, like we did here. A collective bill can be compromised, but it can be resolved. So, friends, this is an example of what we can do when we work together. So I welcome all the soldiers and members of their families. It's a very important step. Now, about this law that we're currently considering. And by the way, the example that we can find compromises. As we said at the outset, you can't enter the tests. You can't have the business that's still alive running in overcrowded conditions to bring down, sorry, these, unfortunately, hungry fiscals that are going to tear it apart. Well, you can't do that. This is definitely a step in the wrong direction. And we did it in a difficult struggle because of compromises. But, you see, today we're looking at the law where these standards are taken away, where there's a moratorium on tax checks. It's important. But, friends, let's do it in general. I call on all of us, let's finally treat the economy the way we should. How are you supposed to do that? What Is Needed? First. Employment is a priority. All who create jobs must receive support from the State. There is nothing but support. And this should be just our main task -- not taxes, not congregations -- jobs. Ukrainians have to give jobs, work, earn money. Yeah, that's the point. The other one. Predictability. What difference does it make? Any one of them. Why are some nations rich, others poor? Read the books. I'm going to the tax committee. But because one of these things is institutions and foresight. Switzerland, which doesn't actually have one. can't even feed itself, which has almost no natural resources, but which has a system, institutions and predictability, shows just phenomenal results. We can't make bills that predict that tomorrow, in a month, we're going to return checks or change taxes. You can't do that, you have to stop it. And then we'll have a better economic situation. So, my friends, I urge everyone to unite around these things, around the jobs for the Ukrainians, and do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u54	Alexiyyovich, this was your performance, and then you'll have five amendments, I understand? You can ask that you start with the repair number and then report back to it. Yeah? So I can find this. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u55	Thank you. I'm asking you to set up the amendments that provide for the preservation of the tax benefit regime that is today, and this is about 2 percent. Once again, I'm absolutely sure that our main task is jobs. And for me personally, we can ask questions even in categories, in sectors, in regions, in fact, even less tax, but the main thing is that business works so that people get paid to have people work somewhere. It's a principle today. So Amendment 1469, I ask my colleagues to support it and give us the opportunity to save the necessary things for the economy today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u56	Corrigendum 1469 by Goncharenko. She's been rejected by the committee, right? I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please vote. [[13:19:13]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next up, Alexeiyyovich, number one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u57	Thank you. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. 1476 next. The idea and logic are exactly the same. We need to keep as much today as possible under the conditions that there are, tax evasion for all those entrepreneurs who work. I'm still talking to you separately, please, we need, of course, to put it under control, so that the tax breaks down the business that is "white." What's going on today? We have the whiter the business, the harder it gets for you, because they come in with a check and try to squeeze something out of those who don't pay bribes, and those who pay bribes, those in the shadows, nobody comes to them because why? And any action we take, any change we make, any greater authority we give to fiscals, they only end up with one coming to those who actually, honestly, "in white" working. Guys, let's stop this, because it's absolutely a way to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u58	1476 revisions. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:20:45.]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Next. Correction number, Aleksei Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u59	1506, Ruslan Alexiyovich. It's the same thing. Once again, it's about saving the tax. Once again, I point out that this is a very important question. And because we have to give time to business. Even if we have decided to cancel the tax. Well, from one point of view or another, I think they're wrong. But there we make that decision. But for us, it has to be an axiom that we have to give business time to prepare for change. Because business doesn't live like this, he can't do anything for tomorrow. It's contracts, it's work, it's buying, it's planning. So if we want to make a difference today, from January 1st we can enter something. We can't move any other way. So I urge you, colleagues, to save the tax dollars for business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u60	And so the amendment of 1506 by Potterenka. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:22:04]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next. Number, Alexei Alexiyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u61	I have good news, this is the last one, Ruslan Alexiyovich. You won't even need a fifth. Thank God, we've made at least a compromise on the tests. So I'm not going to bet on confirmation, I'm not going to insist on all of my more than 100 revisions. But it's important here, I'll turn around again, maybe the colleagues will hear it. The important thing is that we leave the moratorium to check. That's very good. But it's also important to leave tax taxes for the business that actually works in white. We understand with you, our task is to build such a system that we're looking for those working in the shadows, and they're under pressure. We're all upside down today because the whiter you work like this white shirt, the more they come to you because you can see, you're paying, you know. And the more you're in the shadows, the quieter you're in this shadow, the better it is, the more you're in the shadows, and the more you're in the shadows, the more you're in the dark, the more you're in the dark, the more you're in the dark, and the more you're in the dark, the more you're in the dark, the more you're in the dark, the less you're in the dark, the more you're in the dark, and the more you're in the dark, the more you're in the dark, the more you're in the dark, the more you're in the dark, the more Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u62	Alexiyyovich, you never said the number of the amendment you're asking for.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u63	1517.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u64	1517, yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, amendment 1517, now I will find it. Dear colleagues who will report, immediately tell me the number of the amendment so that I can find it. 1517 by Goncharenko. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:23:52]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Yes, Your Honor, "European Solidarity" is no longer amended. Thank you. Voice, please, keep going. Voice, Vasilchenko. Five amendments to Vasilchenko, too, I ask for the amendment number and then for me to be able to watch. And Jurchishin will be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u65	My first amendment, number 670, my esteemed colleagues, is to increase the limits for the first group of natural persons entrepreneurs. The basis is very simple. The last time we tied these limits to minimum wages, the situation in the country changed, the currency cost went up 40 percent, the inflation went up 30 percent, and the fuel cost went up 30 percent. Appropriately, these limits, which were adopted a few years ago, thanks to you and me, are totally out of line with the market and business situation, the economic situation that is now taking place in the country. So my request is to change the size of the limit for the first group of entrepreneurs to 220 minimum wages. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u66	670 amendments to the authorship of Vasilchenko. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:25:29]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Can I have your next amendment number, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u67	The second amendment, 671, is similar to the increase in the limits for FOPs (entrepreneurs) and this amendment refers to 2 groups of entrepreneurs and actually proposes to increase the limit to 1,000 minimum wages. Dear colleagues, I would really like to ask your attention to allow small businesses, in particular the individuals of 2 groups, the FOPs, to work legally, to work in the white plane, regardless of their ability, during the war, not to pay taxes, but in particular 1.2 groups of individuals who are entrepreneurs, they are all equal, most of them, doing so. And with this amendment, we'll just make it easier for them to work and provide the right conditions for business development. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u68	671 Vasilchenko's amendment, she's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:26:55]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u69	The next amendment, number 672, refers to a similar increase in the limits for FOPs, for natural entrepreneurs, actually this amendment applies to 3 groups and here is a very constructive proposal. I know that many of the people's deputies in this bill have been amended to increase the ceilings for the FOPs, so I'm going to ask you to gather and support the proposals. In particular, in my amendment, the point is that if the appropriate natural person of the group 3 does not have any employees, we store at the same level as there are, 1,167 minimum wages. If a person employs 10 people, this limit increases to 3,000. And if it is hired, there are officially more than 10 people employed, then the limit is raised to 6,000 minimum wages. Why is this amendment important? It will really stimulate the official employment of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u70	672 amendments, rejected by the committee, authored by Vasilchenko and colleagues. I'll put this amendment to the vote, please. [[13:28:31]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Please, next, Galino, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u71	The next amendment, 1844, which applies to the non-application of fines if natural persons entrepreneurs do not use RROs. It is so that the moratorium on the application of fines for the non-use of accountancy registers should be extended until the end of the war. Why is this amendment important? You know, there's a lot of rules in this bill that provide for the application of fines or certain kinds of checks that come back and everything else, it's all about the business that's already registered, that pays taxes. But very little attention on the part of the State goes to the point where entrepreneurial activities are generally carried out without any registration. That is, the relevant public authorities do not properly carry out their work, nor do they turn out to be the business that actually works, but does not register or pay any taxes. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, the amendment of 1844 is rejected by the committee, authored by Vasilchenko. Please vote. [[13:30:05]] For-48 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment, please, number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u73	Number 1855. This amendment also applies, relates to the previous amendment and refers to the continuation of the moratorium on non-application of fines in the event of non-use of accountancy registers. I'm going to point out once again that the state has to direct its efforts to get illegal businesses out of the shadows. And the business that works, which pays taxes that are registered, works in white, doesn't need to be hindered, put any obstacles in place, and, in particular, in wartime, we have to ensure that entrepreneurs don't have to fire their employees so that they can work in the future, once the state of war is over, develop. So I'm asking you to support this amendment, and this will provide the right conditions for micro-entrepreneurs, for small-scale entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, the final amendment of National Deputy Vasilchenko, 1855. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:31:31]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Next, please, Ruššin. How many amendments do you have? Two fixes? Three, yeah? Alone? Number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u75	Thank you. It's 1831. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that this amendment is based on three basics. First of all, this is the constitutional principle of presumption of innocence. Second, it is the principle of irreversibility of punishment, which is far more effective than magnitude, although it is a postulate, rather, proven by history. This is much more effective, the irreparability of punishment than the magnitude of that punishment. And third, these are the conditions that we're in right now in terms of war. So, on those three principles, and now it's based on my amendment, depriving entrepreneurs of their time of war. This will not lead to a violation of the discipline of these entrepreneurs, but it will enable them to feel calmer at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, amendment of 1831, authorship of Ruššin. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:33:02]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Please, is the Voice faction someone else going to put their corrections on the table? Nobody else. Next, please, "Serve of the People," after this, "Paternal Motherhood." Please, "Serve of the People" Mazurash. The repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u77	I have more than 50 amendments, but I ask for 3 minutes, and I'm going to put a 1625 amendment on the table. If you can, turn on 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u78	Let's roll. Three minutes. And 16? I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u79	25.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u80	Thank you. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! In 2019 we adopted amendments to the Act on the Use of Accountants and obliged almost all entrepreneurs to use RROs in the implementation of goods and services. This was done under the slogan of total business fiscalization to increase tax revenue to the budget. We've also adopted legislation on software registerers for accounting transactions. That is, mobile apps, computer programs, to make it easier for entrepreneurs to issue fiscal checks. And to quickly run these PRROs, we've allowed anyone to create this software RRO on the basis of. Well, without certification, without checking these PRROs to perform fiscal functions. That was the wrong decision. The PRRO developers took advantage of this by not controlling or receiving a check issued to the tax server, or by paying the tax check. Even more: big taxpayers, large networks have started to create their own PRROs, which they seem to produce to consumers, but they don't send information to the DPS. The use of the software RRO has been increasing dramatically every year, but the amount of tax from PRRO users compared to ordinary cash machines is only decreasing – it's official statistics from the tax service. What's more, I have the results of an expert on the two state software RROs created by Ukraine's DPS, and it's an expert conclusion that even the software RROs created by the tax service allow you to easily generate the data generated by the checks, change these data, or simply not send checks to the tax service. So there's a check on the hands of consumers, and there's no check in the tax office. This is a huge hole that makes the state lose tens of billions of dollars a year, tens of billions of dollars. This applies to both excise and other products. When we're talking about. That they should close a two-percent group of single taxes, return tax checks and otherwise "screws," because that's what the IMF insists, that's, of course, maybe because money is really needed. But if the IMF doesn't see it, doesn't know about the massive tax evasion scheme, do we have to close it or what? I emphasize that I fully support the software RRO, it greatly simplifies life for total fiscalization, but software RROs, like cashiers, have to transfer information to the tax office.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, the amendment of 1625 by Mazurash. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:37:03]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Please, Fris. I understand you had four adjustments, didn't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u83	Later.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u84	No, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u85	They wrote that later.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u86	No, no, "The Servant of the People" now. Please, Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u87	Okay. Thank you. Great. Danilo Aleksandrovitch, I'd like to file 1239 for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u88	Which one? Number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u89	1239. List of rights, Ruslan Alexiyovich, you've got it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u90	And it's all there is. Yes, yes, I'm sorry. Because I didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u91	Yeah. If you can, if you can, then it's first in 674.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u92	674 at first, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u93	Yeah. 674 revision is an amendment that increases the limit for entrepreneurs in the third group by 20 million. I want to point out that these limits were in 2016, and in no way did this lead to any major problems. But now we need to give one entrepreneur the opportunity to have a lot of income to show, not to play the registration every single time. So I'm going to ask you to take this into account and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u94	674 revisions. Are you here with the authors? I see there is, huh? Yeah. 674 revisions of the authorship of Fries and other colleagues were rejected by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. Please vote. [[13:38:48]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Please, next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u95	1239 law. A key amendment that tells us that, as we promised at the beginning of the massive aggression, checks should be stopped throughout the war state. And this is not about manipulations of actual tests, documentary tests. We said that all tests should be stopped. This was the subject of why I personally and some of my colleagues did not support Bill 8401 before the first reading. And today, as you can see, there's been such a slight manipulation. Everyone knew they had the rights to be taken into account. I asked them when they were going to be somewhere, and they promised me that in about 40 or 45 minutes. But it turns out that they were put up immediately when there were no people in the hall. So make the most of it, come to the hall, and vote, and support the prescribed regulations, so that we can fulfill our commitment that we will not have any checks on entrepreneurs at all during the time of the war. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u96	1239 amendment, it's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:40:13]] For-79 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1250. Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u97	Yeah, next amendment to 1250. If there has not been a previous amendment and a previous block regarding the conduct of tests, I would like to focus on the part of the procedure for carrying out the tests. Unfortunately, in the first reading of the bill, and this was felt by GNEU in the same way that there are abstract vague formulations. For example, abstract formulation is available when checking for safe access to areas, premises, or property. In this direction, we suggest that we detail and specify these right over here, directly, this secure access. This is when an entrepreneur is able to provide such access, it is when an entity can provide inventory documents and all the rest. If you want to carry out tests, let us still conduct these tests when a person is able to exercise such access. Please support this and make sure that it is taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u98	Amendment to 1250 by Fries. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:41:34]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1415, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u99	1415, yes. This is absolutely, let's say, a work amendment, this is an amendment that relates to the functioning of the valid rules of the Tax Code, which says that any changes to tax legislation in the part of ensuring stability, according to which changes to any element of tax and assembly cannot be made later than 6 months before the start of the new fiscal period in which the relevant rules and rates will be applied. So this right suggests that the entire law be suspended for January 1st, 24th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u100	Amendment to 1415 by Fries. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:41.]] For-76 The decision is not taken. My next amendment is 1434.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u101	It's identical, so we're taking it down, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u102	You're shooting 1434, yes. Next 1500, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u103	That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u104	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u105	This amendment proposes to exclude the provision for the installation of the relevant period when the checks are started, the possibility of the control authorities to apply appropriate fines for the breach of the calculation and payment of the single premium, the possibility of the payment of a penny to the payers of the single contribution and the conduct of documentary checks by the payers of the single contribution. In part of the documentary examinations, I realized that the committee had made the right decision, and I'm telling you right, Danilo Alexandrovich, there would be none of them, and on the part of counting these fines, I'd like to get the support of the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, the 1500th Amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please Identify and Vote [[13:43:48]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next, 1501. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u107	I understand that there's no one in the room at all, and there's hardly anyone to support this. These are the same standards as we talked about tax checks. The same changes are made here, the rules of the Law on Collection and Accounting for the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance on the non-application of the fee for the offences in question. Please place it on account and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u108	I'm betting on the amendment of 1501 by Fris. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:44:38]] For-86 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1644. Please, Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u109	Ruslan Alexiyovich, this is going to be an extreme correction, 1645 we're not going to put, they're identical. But, dear colleagues, I'd like you to listen to me and support this amendment, even if you show that you, you understand what cash is and what cash is paid for. Today, it is stipulated by the law that if payments are made by means of your bank cards on bank terminals or on the Internet, the payment is to be made through a register of settlement transactions, that is, through the RRO, you have to be cashed. Well, it's an absolute nonsensus when the National Bank says it's a cash-free operation, and we have to break it through the RRO. It's especially interesting when it's going to happen through distance banking services on websites. What ROM, and who should issue a check in such a case?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u110	Please, there's an explanation. Daniel Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u111	Look, you can definitely get this out of the RRO, but in exchange for tax access to bank accounts. Because otherwise, all these cash-free accounts are turned into P2P payments, which we've discovered by investigating the activities of casinos that, while in cash, didn't pay taxes, went into shadow and stole revenue from the army during the 22nd year. And now, thank God, they're out of the shadows. That's why it's unacceptable, and we've rejected it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u112	Thank you. Amendment 14. 1644, I'm sorry. Edit 1644 by Fries, she's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:46:48]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Igor Pavlovich Fries, did you take yours or not? Next, 1645. Please. Igor Pavlovich, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u113	1645, absolutely right. I will not put her to the vote, Mr. Head, but I would like to make a brief statement. You know, the manipulation that they've just shown in terms of carrying out these rights, when half the hall is gone, there's not a bigger half of the hall that was willing to support it, because they said they were going to look at it later. I personally approached the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council that she would be removed. And now, well, that's not right. So, colleagues, I ask you not to support this bill as a whole, because it does not respect the conditions of order of ethics, on the one hand. And on the other hand, he's definitely negligent about the ability of Ukrainian citizens to work in this country. Yesterday, a mother called me and told me that she had a child who had finished school. Of the 19 children who graduated from school, 15 go abroad to study, only 4 remain in Ukraine. So who are we going to work with with these laws in four to five years? Yeah, no one, 'cause there's no business in this country, nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u114	Thank you, Igor Pavlovich. Honestly, I'm surprised about any manipulations. I didn't get it at all. Are you with me? We agreed that we're going through factions, and we're going. So let's do it without any mutual accusations. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. You've got everything, haven't you? I can't figure it out either. So please, come on. We've got factions, we've walked and we're going. I have the information that there will be more Mikisha than the faction, and there will be more Kamelchuk. Please, who, Mikisha, Kamelchuk? The alphabet. Please, Kamelchuk, then Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u115	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Yuri Kamelchuk, Lvivščina, Czervonograd region It's all about the FOPs, of course. We need them in the country. And I was only doing this for the same purpose so that we could give them more opportunities to survive this difficult military period, a war period where many of them will not just complain, but continue to help business, help communities in places. And if that's possible, it's actually a chance to hold back from testing for 12 months after the end or the end of the state of war, what we talked about earlier. If you do hear the arguments of the Cabinet of Ministers, Minfin and others again, if this really does have the effect that they promise in the form of 115 billion plus, I'd like to see from them a specific responsibility if they don't. So I'd like you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u116	Yuri, if you'd started with the license plate. I get it. Amendment 1260, right? Thank you. I'm asking you, colleagues, to start with the application number, then it's easier for us to look for all of this. And so, by Kamelchuk, amendment 1260 was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:50:12]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next. 1614, right, Yuri? Please, Kamelchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u117	The next 1614, it's practically the same thing. So I'm just going to add a few words. If we sign a memorandum with someone, it's about signing a memorandum with the IMF, with other organisations, with the EU and so on. Friends, I'm turning from us all to the Cabinet of Ministers. Since the Cabinet of Ministers was actually chosen, we voted for it, and we were voted for by the people we represent from the regions, we wanted to see more opportunities, consult with us representatives of the people we see in places every day, and how they look into their eyes after all these decisions, so that we understand that what is being done is what we are responsible for. And what's not being done, we're also responsible for it. So please, more representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and more reports on all the memorandums for the future. And the 12-month application is to delay the tests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u118	Thank you. And so, the amendment of 1614 by Kamelchuk. Please vote. [[13:51:42]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Please, come on. That's what I understand, Mikisha, isn't it? Please call the amendment number immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u119	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have eight amendments. I'd like to, if I had three minutes, I'd be there, we wouldn't put them on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u120	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u121	Thank you. Colleagues, we're from "Smart Politics," of course, we support interaction, conversation, discussion with the International Monetary Fund. But, first of all, it shouldn't, it shouldn't do worse to our state. And to our state, first of all, it's a business that keeps it going. National business. International business. We understand. Look, a bit of a paradoxical situation, it's going to be the next. The people who remained in the war did not escape, they stayed put and continued to work. Next. They're helping the army. Not only are they paying taxes, they're still helping the army. Moreover, in one way or another they are under pressure from the State. Let's be honest, the tax returns don't split, they're blocked. The introduction without a valid reason in a high-risk situation is also not going anywhere, and it's also a pressure on business. I couldn’t understand the situation when I was in what was considered territory. which are now involved in the hostilities of these territories, why should they be treated in general to raise their taxes. But they should be supported because they stayed there at all, you know. And first of all, as legislators, we've adopted a separate bill on localization, supporting our national business first, and now we're lifting again. I've got it. I'd like to pay your attention. Look, there's such a thing as tax amnesty. There is a fairly easy procedure for making these funds legal. But I'll tell you that actually the legalization of the funds left in the shadows took place now that 2 percent became a tax, the only tax is 2 percent. A lot of money was put into the economy. And here's the simple math: 5 percent of a million is 50,000, and 2 percent of 3 million is 60 percent as a minimum. And there was a lot and a lot of money going on. I'm calling your attention once again, we're not going to support this bill, because we want to support our national business first, because it's our army that's holding on to their taxes, that's what we're paying the military's salaries, the salaries and everything else we're fighting for. So we will not support and ask you very much, colleagues, nor will we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, would you please tell the "Serve of the People" faction, someone else, please? 1891 is yours. I'll find her now. Jacek, please, 1891. Now I'm going to look for this amendment. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, I may repeat myself, but once again, I would like to emphasize the importance of this amendment, because it delays the implementation of this law for active hostilities. And this is Zaporizka, Dnipropetrovska, Donetska, Lugansk, Harkovsky, Herson region, where business, risking, staying, pays taxes in areas where it's registered, hasn't left, hasn't moved production, is providing jobs, so we have to give these companies the opportunity to have some kind of tax terms. If you talk about the risk of businesses being registered or reregistered in such areas, it's just a stupid assumption, because this business, it's already in the territories and we, as lawmakers, have to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u124	The position of the committee asked Danilo Alexandrovich to explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u125	I'd like us to study the table more carefully, we're consulting colleagues on this issue, on the front of the territory, that is, the zones of active or possible hostilities, we've put all the moratoriums on them, we've put out of this law, leaving all the moratoriums on checks, all the moratoriums on fines, and we've left voluntary taxes to 1 and 2 groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u126	Julia Gregory, you insist on this amendment, can we not vote? You insist, don't you? Then the amendment of 1891 by Yatzik and other colleagues, it was rejected by the committee, the argument of the parties you heard, please vote. [[13:57:18]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, once again, would any of the MPs of the People's Party still be putting their amendments on the table? No one will, right? Let's move on, Fatherland faction. Who will be the first? I've got a whole list there. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Julia Volodymyrna. 10 minutes Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, today is a truly fine day in our Ukrainian Parliament when it is up to each and every one of you to live in real Ukraine. Bill 8401 for the whole country has become such, you know, a damoclus sword, such a cataclysm. The whole country is excited, all people are alert today, because it's not just about employers, it's about working people. If employers disappear under this law, as a result, we will have no jobs. You know, we talked to you about the country's post-war development strategy in this Constitutional Day Hall recently. I want to tell you that in the world of economics, there is one indicator that can or cannot be characterized by a successful country, whether it's stable or not, whether it's stressful during a crisis or not, is a percentage of the middle class. What is middle class? These are the people who can face any challenge that feeds themselves and gives jobs to millions more. The middle class is the highest value, it's more valuable than any of the country's resources. So in 2013, when polls were conducted in Ukraine and Ukrainians answered, they refer to themselves as middle class or not, in 2013 only 10 percent of Ukrainians referred to themselves as middle class. In 2021, a year before the war, our State Department conducted such a survey officially. In 2021 only one percent of Ukrainians treated themselves as middle class, you can imagine scale. The war started, 7 million people inside the country moved, lost their jobs, everything that might have become self-employed somewhere. Today, in general, if such a survey is conducted, can one person answer that he is referring himself to the middle class. Do you know what Europe looks like? Tomorrow we're going to have the Prime Minister of Spain, you know how many middle class they have? 64 percent, and in the successful countries of old Europe, 75-78 percent of people refer to themselves as middle class. And I want to tell you that if this bill is adopted, 8401 will be accepted, and you know what's in it. It basically cancels the tax system, imposes fines, initiates checks, I'm going to decipher it a little bit. I think that if it's accepted, it's essentially going to be the elimination by the middle-class remnants parliament, which are still in Ukraine, at least a little bit of food. Dear friends, you have a button in your hands. It's worse today than the 8401 machine in your hand, you can either shoot or pardon, it looks like that. And now let's see how it all unfolded. We have with you in 2022, if I'm not mistaken, in March, the President spoke and said the very right things, and made the right decisions. During the entire war and a year after the war, a group of FOP-entrepreneurs were freed from all taxes. All the others that didn't apply to 1-2 groups were assigned to 3 groups and were able to pay 2 percent of taxes instead of all the other taxes. You know what the average tax burden on our business today is. If you count the average of about 4 percent, you give 2 percent, and that was totally normal during the war. They put a moratorium on all the checks, fines, and it was the logical right decision, because it kept us in the middle class. What's the end of the war today? Yeah, no, it's not over. What do we have today is peace, peace and prosperity in business? Oh, no. What reasons are there for ending all the benefits given to the middle class, both small and medium-sized enterprises today? There is no reason for this. What about the International Monetary Fund? I worked twice as Prime Minister, you know. With the International Monetary Fund, negotiations are very simple, and they need to cover budget deficits. And the government is offering what to cover these deficits? You can cover it by closing the shadow sphere, you can cover it by canceling instructions and tax documents that allow the first group of FOPs to work on all the trading networks of the country, there are tens of billions of taxes in addition to the first, second and third groups. What are we talking about now? And if the IMF were to work properly, we had to get a menu on how we could fill the income part of the budget, and that could have been done. But they gave up the first and second group of businesses, the microbusiness of self - employed people. What have they done? First. They canceled all the benefits and returned to prewar status. This is Law 8401. The other one. They've set up an order for the RRO. The cashiers, in different ways, call them business. Where during the war? When half the country became marketed, when they introduced the RRO. What are we talking about? Also, fines on the RRO, if that's not what they're using. Think of it as October 1st they carried, and by October 1st they'd have a hand. From October 1st, they're going to roll and roll this little hypermal microbusiness into the asphalt, and you're opening this green road. I'm not going to tell you any more about the fact that, for example, the gambling business, the financial business, the alcohol business, where the taxable goods, it hasn't been checked, bet, nothing has been done since March 2022. Why? I have a question: why didn't they leave all this behind? Only now they're telling them to check you out. I can tell you how a person who knows how the government works, the Ministry of Finance, cooperation with the IMF, we could and can still fix it. And I want to tell you that what the MPs "bited" for business, "bited" is to delay checks until the end of the war, to postpone checks, except for three groups: excise goods, financial services and gaming business, well, it's a minimum minimum minimum. But the irrigation system is being destroyed, and the first, the second, is also being destroyed. We also agreed, I ask you to draw your attention to this, we agreed with the committee manager, and it's very good that after the adoption of this law we will make an explanation for the tax and for the business as to how this law will apply in order to remove all contradictions there. But it doesn't save, it doesn't save the situation. Yes, there won't be any checks in business except RRO and other than small business until the end of the war, but that's not enough. And that's why I'd like to ask you. First. The tranche of the IMF has already been issued on the 29th, $890 million, if I'm not mistaken. The IMF has made it possible to work on this law by the end of July, you can read it from official reports. If we now have a very small chance of negotiating with the IMF, grinding this law so that we don't destroy the middle class, allowing more regions that are under missile attacks to be able to avoid testing -- please do it. Today we have, our team, more than a thousand rights, a thousand 7 rights, so they're all professional, balanced, honest. We're not looking at it because there are 100 deputies sitting in this room, there's nothing to vote on here and who to vote with. And that's why I'm addressing you right now: vote for this bill with red buttons, save the leftovers of the middle class, which means save the country and your honour. Because every entrepreneur in Ukraine will know how you voted today — against Ukraine or in favour; against them, against people’s lives or for life. We vote with red buttons. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, please continue with Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u129	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, should be very careful about this bill, number 8401, because it refers to one and a half million domestic workers who are working under difficult conditions today, creating jobs, and paying taxes. And if you look at it, actually the "Fatherland" faction, I'm personally, we've met with representatives of social organizations that are bringing together this category of workers. And by the way, most of them don't mind working and paying taxes. They are well aware that today the financing of the defence sector is at the expense of Ukrainian employers. But when it comes to the first reading of the bill and the second, it must be said in the interests of justice that the bill has turned into a better one. The government is starting a real discussion, and yesterday's meeting of the President is this testimony. But what has been improved? In fact, a simplified check -- and I would like to thank the committee's head, and everyone else who's worked on it -- is still a small victory. But in order for this rule to become normal, there are still a number of sub-legal acts that need to be changed to Minfin's order, other tax instructions. And they work at such a pace that it can take months, which is a risk, because the bill proposes entry into force from 01.08 already this year. There's a kind of conflict. And we believe that the committee will still explain to these structures how to act by implementing the standards of this bill. A few statistics. We have as a state to think that 100,000 entrepreneurs who left the country as a result of a large-scale war would return to Ukraine, create jobs and thus add value to their work. If this bill creates conditions, there is a question. Historically, from 1999 to 2009, the simplified budget system has increased 32 times. And a million jobs were created. So you don't have to think of anything new, you need to improve what's been forgotten at times. And we should also keep in mind statistics that in recent years the number of subjects in this category has decreased hundreds of times. There are two explanations. Some say they're closed at all, and I think some of them just go into the shadows and minimize or don't pay taxes at all. It seems to me that this is the sector that the Cabinet of Ministers should be primarily working on as executive branch of power, and we are like parliamentarians who are writing laws on the very categories that are working in the shadows today. It's very important to delay at least until October, checking out total business representatives. By the way, even they themselves say that the introduction of the so-called RRO, it's a positive thing, but it has to be done in stages, and checks and fines should be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u130	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u131	Good day, fellows, ladies and gentlemen, our dear defenders! Why is the Fatherland faction fighting so hard for the Ukrainian business to work during the war? Why do we apply for the taxes that you, our respected citizens, go to the budget first, secondly, for the Ukrainian Armed Forces and thirdly, so that there is no corruption in the government and not steal your taxes? Because we think that war taxation means helping the country win. Because we think, for example, that our citizens, our protectors and our protectors, who went to the front from the business of small, medium, large, whatever, have to receive from Parliament a fair answer and support from those companies, those Ukrainian business structures that were sent to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Is that the answer in this bill? Unfortunately, there is no answer for us. The business owner went to fight, with the machine right now on the front, what did the tax office, the economic security office, the parliament, the honourable committee that's representing this bill, what did you answer, what did you do to help that business that left this defender or protector in the back? We believe that the help of such a Ukrainian business should be taxed, there should be no checks, there should be no bribery, there should be no harassment, and there should be all the corruption that unfortunately did not leave the tax authorities. To root out corruption means to deprive our Ukrainian business of this corruption in tax breaks. But once again, I would like to point out what we, as factions in the faction, are paying attention to our colleagues from the committee that are presenting this bill. We need to do everything we can to get those Ukrainian business companies that sent their protectors and protectors to protect the country so that these companies get additional privileges, attention from the state. And we need to start with this bill, so that the tax is minimal, convenient, but very effective. And one more thing. Yes, we support that in Parliament, after the vote, a profile committee develops and directs clear explanations in government and fiscal bodies, where and how it can be best to treat the Ukrainian business, where it can and should not be collected by two, three times as much as possible during the transition from one system to another, from one tax group to another tax group. During the war, we stress the duty of the rear fiscal and governmental authorities to help and protect Ukrainian business. Third. Note here, in Parliament's rostrum, for all of Ukraine, it's time for the tax authorities to report that they've unlocked the tax notes, that they're promoting the Ukrainian business, that they're starting to work as the fiscal authorities of the European Union are doing, helping, explaining and filling the budget transparently, controlled, but as much as possible by supporting a national producer, a national worker, self-employed economic persons, all people working. In Europe, however, the principle is effective that trade, employers and government is a triangle of the existence of an economy. I have a direct question for the entire room -- with the Ukrainian trade unions did you consult? And the Ukrainian trade unions have directed hundreds of thousands of their members to protect the country, to protect it now from Russian aggression. How many of them have given up their lives? So maybe it's finally that day of justice that the government and the authorities will start consulting the unions, going to meet them, the Ukrainian unions, they're people of work. Our defenders on the front and the unions inside the country are the pillars that Ukraine is holding on to. And that way we can and should become stronger. The same with employers. One meeting. It's a good thing the President met, it's a good thing that Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko is meeting and working with them, but the whole Parliament has the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national deputy Taruti. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u133	Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't hear. Dear colleagues, I think that every single one of you in this room has close friends who work in business. And I think they still had to ask you questions, and for what purpose this law is, what it carries, what philosophy, what purpose, because every law has to have a primary purpose. If we want to fight the shadow, there are many factors in how to do so. And I think everyone in the room knows where the shadows are. And relative to tax. I'm asking the committee head to raise what was done by our international partners six or seven years ago, where Western partners gave us equipment, service, program, it was all agreed with the taxpayers, and we can go completely to the electronic declaration. And remove the manual mode. It's totally automatic. That's what the president says. This is a program, and it can be launched. It's different. If we want to fight the shadow. I told Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka, "Victor Andryovich, everyone knows where they're stealing." Let's take an example at least today. I'm going to the committee manager. He's got an iPhone phone. The iPhone phone comes into our country with a Syrian scheme. If we want to remove this shadow, we only need one decision from Kabmin, a Kabmin ruling that not one phone is not included in the network, no operator includes if it has not passed the tax system. Unless he checked in. All of it. And we're done with the cheese scheme. And we know how many of these phones go into the country. And it's been going on for more than 10 years, and no one can see. And so if we want to fight the shadow, there are clear answers to how to do that. The schematics are all familiar. Now back to basics. Every country's base is not just a medium-sized business, it's a small business. And now we're making little business a pig. We're going to make things worse for them now. And really your colleagues said from "The Servant of the People," that today is a very sensitive situation in the country. Today, business survives. And I realize there was something I needed to do. We had to answer questions about all the legal companies that were unfortunately destroyed in the territory that we lost. Returning to my native Mariupul. From the first day they all went to the bomb shelter, when they came out, all the buildings were destroyed. No paperwork, nothing. And so you need a law to help this business that has absolutely no documentation, no accounting, no servers, so how can you help them? And everything else that we're trying to do right now is a crime. And that's why I'm proposing, my dear colleagues, that's what's happening to each of you, because everyone really has business acquaintances, and I think even relatives, because in the declarations we see that each of the MPs has a family that actually gives a declaration and tells them that they have a lot of money. So ask them, it's definitely not a country. Let's do the term. The president spoke four days ago and said that we don't have to push, there can be no pressure. So why are we doing this now? And once again, I'm talking to everyone, so let's go back to the second reading. And once again, I want to draw the attention of the entire House leadership, in December 15, there was a committee of Pete Cox, who concluded on page 96. And she wrote down the political order of the day. And it's concluded that we're doing spam. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u134	Thank you. Next Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u135	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, of course, the question that we are considering today is a contributing issue for the country, not just for business. I don't want to repeat myself, really, a thorough analysis of this bill and the consequences of its adoption, and the consequences of the failure to resolve the fundamental moments of taxation, they may be beneficial to the country, and all these statements by the leader of the Party of Fatherhood of Yulia Timoshenko have been made clear on these issues. I just want to add a few points. Mr. Danilo, with all due respect to you and your colleagues, but please pay attention. I went away for the first time in a year and a half to communicate with European energy leaders about Ukraine's future energy supply in the European energy system. But apart from energy and its problems, we discussed it. So I asked, what's the main problem you see for Ukraine, what's the main risk? Their estimate is that 15-20 million people are the main potential risk that our country can expect as a result of aggression and not the right economic policy. And you realize that in this number of people, not those who can work, not those who can hold or earn money, but those who can have pensioners, budgeters. And, of course, such a country will have no prospect -- here's the main risk, at their estimate. Of course, we discussed energy problems. And I'm paying attention to all colleagues that literally three days ago, the national regulator, the National Energy Commission, has greatly raised the primers, the so-called energy border prices, and unfortunately there's all the risks that this will lead to higher energy prices, to electricity, first for business. I don't want to be afraid, I don't want to be a populist, I want to say that clearly, in the course of the energy integration of our energy system and European, tariffs will be even. Of course, they will be equalized to both the population, or those who are not working for employers or in the budget sphere, or for business. Of course, this is the shock that our business is going to be experiencing right now. And so it's not the right or wrong tax system, it's going to double or triple the risks to business and it can make its perspectives really, really very and very negative. I mean, first of all, dear friends, we need to change the paradigm of taxation. Today's taxes are some kind of punishment. It's a punishment for people: pay or we destroy you. In any civilized country, taxes are a civil duty. It's a mission of citizens who work and who support the state socially, who serve them. Mr. Danilo, I have a question for you, Danilo the Gethmans. And what do you think, anyway, is that I was a footman to the Supreme Council, and you were, and what does it mean to pay taxes when he then reads about some drums in a bomb shelter for 1.5 million, some sort of buckets, millions of speedboats, some other claim, some eggs, I don't even say 17 bracelets? I've just started to analyze, I've gone some avalanche, I've got 100 million dollars at the country stadiums, and I'm starting to get 100 million dollars. So, Mr. Danilo, this is not an army being robbed by those who pay taxes that try to avoid. No, they don't want to maintain shadow schemes, they don't want to maintain an inefficient government apparatus and an inefficient Supreme Council, by the way, they don't want to keep up with what society needs today. So, friends, at the same time, at the same time, when we're talking about taxes, we're talking about more stringent control over how these taxes are spent. Without this, there will be no modern European country without which there will be no real subject who will be happy to pay these taxes. That's what we need to focus on. Thank you. We don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u136	Please, Volinec, five minutes. Dear colleagues, after Volinc, Kirilenko is five minutes away and the "Fatherland" faction has finished the performance. I get it right, don't I? Please, Volynec 5 minutes, then Kirilenko 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u137	President-in-Office, honourable colleagues, first of all, thank you for being able to express your position on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian laws on the characteristics of taxation during the war period. I understand and respect that in this country's extreme time when the enemy destroys our production and social infrastructure, and the budget deficit has reached critical proportions, the government is trying to find ways to support our economy. However, this bill will have negative consequences. Yes, the proposed changes are, inter alia, foreseen that, as of 1 August of this year, entrepreneurs will be subject to a reduction in the 2 per cent tax on income with an alternative EU budget payment, which was set for a period of military time to stimulate entrepreneurship. They return from October 1, which is almost tomorrow, documentary checks and fines for violating tax legislation and for violating the order of use of accountancy registers. All of this will create too much pressure on small and medium-sized enterprises that are already experiencing difficult times because of military action. I know this from the assets of the Confederate Free Trade Unions of Ukraine, the Free Trade Union of Ukrainian Entrepreneurs. And I fully agree with its position that in today's conditions such total fiscalization will in fact lead to, if not total destruction of small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine, a significant increase in the shadow economy and an increase in corruption, and therefore not an increase, but a decrease in tax revenues. Because entrepreneurs barely survive, first because of COVID and limitations and then because of war. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that when the content of the new Tax Code was adopted in the same Parliament Hall in autumn 2010, the tax haven began. Remember, in all the regions of Ukraine, there were rallies, and in Kiev, at the President's Office, there were 60,000 people at the same time who could raise 600,000. And that made President Yanukovic, the government of Azarov, point out that they made the most important, most critical mistakes, that they tried to destroy the medium and small business just as they did today. And what I'm saying is that there were five or seven minutes before someone raised their hand and said, "Let's go to the President's Office." And that could happen. And that's when a free middle- and small-business union was born on the Tax Show. Dear colleagues, consider this. Dear colleagues, I also urge you to take into account all the possible negative consequences of adopting this project as a law, because our goal is to create a stable, transparent and fair tax environment that will contribute to the development of our economy, and I urge you to call off the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u138	Thank you. Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. And the "Fatherland" faction, I understand, after that, completes all its amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u139	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, is very important as a result of the adoption of such epochal laws, the study of lessons and the accounting of their consequences. Guys, lesson one. Everybody remembers the Fukushima disaster, 12 years ago Chernobyl number two. The lesson was that supertech Japan, with its outstanding advances in science and technology, was not able to hold back nuclear stations in the zone of seismic activity, with multiple strengths. But we have a more important second lesson when journalists visited tens of thousands of people who had suffered and lost everything -- they saw smiling people. When we were surprised to ask, Why do you smile when you lose everything? And they said, and we trust our authority, we trust the government, they tell us, two months from now, we'll have everything. In fact, two months later, people returned everything. Trust unites nations in such critical times! Friends, we have no Fukushima, we have a tar disaster planner, a third world war that brought the Ukrainian people together also on the basis of trust in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to command and to power, which in the first weeks of the war said it would be like this. We act where education is; we act where health is; we act where municipal payments are; we act where economic interests are. And all of a sudden, at the most responsible moment when we are going to the counterattack, when the nation has united all efforts for the final rivalry and victory over this scourge of hell, a blow under the breath of terrible force! Friends, have you calculated what would be the moral loss of trust? Lesson number two. You say this is a requirement of international partners: the IMF, the World Bank and so on. Like the classic said, "I don't believe it!" I don't believe such things are discussed at the beginning, definitely. And they talked about, yes, the moratorium until the end of the war, and then a year for adaptation. Friends, this is the art of negotiators. How did you negotiate? You've given up our positions, the economy? I agree with you, lesson number three, you're not going to be giving money forever, you're going to have to make money. But, my friends, you have to make money in a healthy, vibrant economy that's not going to happen. Today, we lost 30 percent of the economy in the last year, 30 percent of GDP. This year is not a better situation. You see, trends aren't as good as they say they are. And that's with the active benefits! What's going to happen tomorrow? Then, you know, the location. In such a case, businesses were more mobile than those who had moved to Ukraine. They'll come back what do you think? And then it's heavy. More than 6 million compatriots now live outside the country, and 40 percent are employed. And they keep an eye on what's going on in the country -- what's with wages, jobs, manufacturing, tariffs, prices. Will they come back, friends, precious capital? Did you take that into account? Next. Dear colleagues, according to the UN, there were 6 percent of compatriots outside the poverty line before the beginning of the raid, now more than 20, and there will be 60 in the near future. Who's going to pay for these "hotels"? Next thing you know, there's going to be basic prices tomorrow, electricity, fuel, a little later on gas. It's all self-sustainment, which means it's galloping prices. Inflation, for it increases all life’s necessities — utilities, food, transportation, medicine. On this background, purchasing power will decline substantially, and when there is no rich consumer, production is inevitable. Did you count it or not? Mr. Getmanns, do you know what Laffer's fault is? You're an economist. Yeah, for the first two or three months, you're going to report an increase in arrival, and then the collapse is imminent. Friends, please count these lessons. You, the faction leaders, have been approached by people from the front line who will return to this groaning production. Do not vote in favour of this law, rereading the second reading! And count what we said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand that the "Fatherland" faction has completed its performances and completed all its amendments for confirmation. There will be no more corrections. Thank you. And then we have a group for the future, there's two amendments to the Crucifixion. After that, 10 minutes -- Brainy, that's where he's going to put three more of his amendments. All right, I'll give you my word, then you'll give it to me. Now, while you're at it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u141	I'm asking for three minutes and then a vote. Thank you. Dear colleagues, when we meet other people’s demands, we should always think about our own national interests. Because you can sell everything for credit, and then you don't know how and how to calculate and pay off the most valuable. Do colleagues know that some of the money that comes from the IMF's money is going to repay the previous loans that the IMF has been granting? Do we realize that it's not just the money they give us and invest in the economy? This is a loan, and it must always be remembered. And before we destroy our small business, which barely survives during the war, maybe we should be able to negotiate and be better diplomats, and be able to convince the International Monetary Fund that, when required, Ukraine has little to take into account the interests and interests of our state, our people who live here, who work honestly and pay taxes. And it was during the war. In fact, entrepreneurs today are just crying, honestly, I'm breaking up the phone so that we don't support this bill. They say they're not ready for the RRO right now, and they're asking us not to introduce it until the war is over. Guys, I'm asking you to support your 1607 and 1843 licenses, which introduce the RRO after the state of war. This is overwhelming for our small entrepreneurs. Likewise, Mr. Danilo Getmants, I ask you very much, because there is a great deal of excitement in the room, please call an amendment that confirms that checks, including the RRO, are returned exclusively for the risk categories of single taxpayers according to this position, which was agreed with everyone, exclusively for sport, for financial services and for tax purposes. Please give us a specific number, because everyone is worried, they say there is no such thing, and correct the excitement in the room about how the tests are coming back for everyone. Please, Danilo the Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u142	Thank you. Briefly, Danilo Alexanderovich, and then we vote for your two amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u143	Thank you. As for the introduction or non-introduction of the RRO, look, transitional periods of preparation and everything else, I don't want to shock you, but we introduced it in the 19th year, and we introduced it in full, and now it's mandatory, since January 1nd, 22. And 60 percent of the trade, the single-tax trade, has already set up RROs, 60 percent of the trade. And it seems to me that in a country in the 21st century that wants to be a part of Europe, to discuss whether to enter or not, whether to issue a check to a person, or not to issue a check for 30 years, after 30 years of independence, I'm ashamed of something. So according to the law, you asked, fines for using RRO are back from October 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u144	For the RRO.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, and so amendment 1607 by Krakhod, is rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:13]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 1843 by Speedhod. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[14:43:35]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, may I ask again, the Group For the Future no longer has speeches and amendments? Thank you. None of the factions and groups have spoken and amended. From the non-fractional Dmitry of Reason instead of its amendments for 10 minutes, he will then place his three amendments to the count, three amendments to the confirmation. And we vote in favour of the law as a whole. Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u146	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone that we have a war going on. Our Armed Forces don't provide IMF. Our Armed Forces don't provide international loans. Our Armed Forces provide the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian business that pays taxes, the Ukrainian business that is the patriot of this state, who trusted the President, who trusted the authorities that all the tests, all the pressures, all the high taxes are delayed and will be postponed to the end of the war, plus at least one year after our victory, everyone remembers that, and people do the same, and in this big problem. How does the authorities want to gain the trust of society if they change the rules of the march? How do we want to win when they see it on the front? We promised this business support, but it's not the first decision that makes it much worse for each of them. Business should stay in Ukraine, business didn't go on February 24, 22nd, when the war started, because he was promised that everything that went to 24th, that there would be no corruption schemes, there would be no purchases at higher prices, there would be no drums in shelters, there would be no constructions at a million dollars, there would be no corruption at the customs rate of experts who even today would be 12 billion dollars, there would be no tax pressure, there would be no treatment and there wouldn't be many other things that would always affect the Ukrainian business for 30 years of our independence. You think he's giving this bill today? This bill, according to estimates of the same committee that was put into the hall today, will be given from 300 million to 500 million dollars a month. So by the end of this year, we're going to get from 2 billion to 4 billion dollars, from 2 billion to 4 billion dollars in the budget for this year, 2.5 trillion dollars. What's that even about? So just to make it possible for the taxpayer to continue to push on Ukrainian business or to be able to do different interesting schemes again, or to add more people to the 5.5 million people that have already left the country, I mean, just the work of the able population. There were others who would go there. Those who lose faith in the victory of common sense have been added and will seek a better fate abroad. And there's more of them every day. We can't afford that. You remember what the president was talking about. I don't understand how a majority faction today might be looking at something that contradicts the position of the President. He spoke about it in February 2022. In parallel to that, yesterday he said we should lower the pressure on business the other day. I've been making my point as it should be. And really, I think that both business and people in this are supporting the head of the state as well as any normal initiatives. Unfortunately, though, we continue to consider this bill today. I'm already not talking about how he was prepared. Two thousand straights. What do you vote for today? Honestly, I don't know. So you can pick up everyone in this room and ask them what's under one or the other, you can't answer that. It's going to be the same as the Return of Wages Act for the Military, when only our colleague, a colleague in "Smart Politics" found what we're returning, we're taking back more loyally, the ability of the disabled to perform these functions, and they're going to be called tomorrow. And you're going to have to answer to your electorate and to your district, and when you're talking to people on the street, if you're really doing this. So I would like to thank the people's deputy Bakumov for being the only one in this room to see it and understand it. Sadly, we have not been able to clean up this disgraceful position. I'd like to remind you of all the corruption schemes that have plagued society for months. It's about buying apples, potatoes, eggs, techniques, and a lot of other things that can't be explained to people or our international partners. Our team, the "Smart Politics" team, has passed many bills on the walls of this Supreme Council, and unfortunately they don't make it into the hall. It's also a presumption of innocence for business. Because what's going on with tax notes today is just a shame when negotiable resources are blocked in companies that work for the state and then released for their wages. Our suggestion was that for a maximum of 30 days it would be possible to keep a tax return. Unfortunately, this is not in the hall. We're talking about a moratorium on increasing the costs of cell service, increasing municipal payments. What are we doing? We, on the one hand, suppress business so that they don't even have money to raise wages for those who work in these businesses today, on the other hand, we raise people's rents every month. Last month it was electricity, now it's water. Next, what? Prices in stores will be. We raise electricity tariffs for business. It's like we're doing everything we can to just destroy this business, so there's no filling, really, budget filling and the economy is dead. And along with the economy, the Ukrainian army can't stand the budget that this budget has to provide. And then it will be all: both you and the State and ours will win with you. We can't let that happen. I'd like you to recall very well the comments that lasted in this 24-number room that we're going to work for our victory. This law certainly does not add to our victory. This law destroys the economy, it's completely fragile, it's thoughtless, and it's having disastrous consequences. I'm sure a lot of you are going shopping, and in markets, I hope so. And last weekend, I got to meet a woman in the market. She's standing, she's trading, she's FOP. She says, "And you know, my son died, one son." One son died for our country. And he says, "If you raise taxes, I won't work anymore. I have a daughter-in-law and two children left, and I'm the only one who feeds this family." And I'm sure such stories are millions in our country, in our family, in our loved ones, in our acquaintances. And either go to bed or get your things and get out of this country. And I think that anyone who pushes the button should remember that there is no need to choose mathematics between patriotism and mathematics. We must choose our conscience, our state, and our victory, not our desire to pass another law, for which we will be ashamed to look people in the eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! So I understand that, Dmitri Alexanderovich, you're still going to put a couple of your amendments and then three confirmations? Let's start with those amendments that you take into account, call the number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u148	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I might even do less because I'm looking at it as not interesting to colleagues, but nevertheless. 259. Right. The draft in the first reading edition proposes to restore checks on all periods of compliance with which the tax authorities are responsible. Yet, in the face of constant fires and other risky military action, taxpayers may not physically be able to invest in defined periods, simply physically. And when we talk to you about the constant lights we've had in the winter and maybe we'll have the summer, it's definitely a big problem for everyone who's been doing business in Ukraine. So I'd like to put 259 bills on the table and ask my colleagues to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u149	And so, 259 amendments to Razumkov's authorship were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:54:40]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Next up, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u150	The next amendment refers to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u151	Number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u152	Number 1261. It's about doing what they promised business at the beginning of the war and putting down all the tax hikes, all the checks, all the attempts to commonize business as a goose for the term "after the war" plus one year. So by December 31st, the next year you and I are going to win. We're going to win as a state, as a country, as a society, and we're going to have to save the Ukrainian business. I'm asking you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u153	Edit 1261 by Razumkov. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:55:46]] For-76 The decision is not taken. All of you, Dmitri Alexanderovich, right? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you: Is there anyone else in the room who will make the adjustments that he will take into account? None. There are three other amendments for confirmation. It's gonna be a one-off, isn't it? Is there an amendment to the number you want to give me?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u154	1410. This is a Getmancewa edit. It provides for the entry into force of the law of August 1, 2023. If it is not counted, then the norm and the editorial that was before the first reading will take effect. I mean, July 1st. The laws of retroactive force do not have any force, and then, colleague, this law will have to be resold for second reading and re-prepared for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u155	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, in responding to all this, we have indeed met many people in foreign parliaments who are in favour of raising the salaries of the military and many have seen people who are in favor of tax cuts. But in Parliament alone, they are the same people. And really, in a country of war, and it really needs a war of consolidation of all forces, and really, you and I are making this decision right now. And as to whether it could legally be a back number, I don't want to shock anyone, maybe. And we had that before, and we had that at the beginning of the war when we looked at the gas rent with you and it took effect a month before we voted with you. All the corrections taken into account by the committee and ten of them all soften the edition of the first reading. So if an amendment takes place, I'm sorry, but there's going to be an editor for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u157	Thank you. You insist, yes, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Can we not? You insist. Dear colleagues, Amendment 1410 is an amendment to the confirmation, which was considered by the committee by Danil Alexandrovich. The National Deputy of Razumkov requests that such a decision be made for confirmation. So please, Your Honor, vote. [[14:58:28]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm putting in a bill. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and other laws on the characteristics of taxation during the war period (registration No. 8401). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:59:12]] For 239. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, we still have Bill 9011. We agreed, without amendment, to vote. Is that how it stays? Then I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on Amendments. Excuse me, Yvchenko. Yeah? Please, Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u158	Please support the 49th Amendment. Thank you, colleagues. This will make it easier for households to work. It's for people. This is an amendment that is consistent with all factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u159	Committee position. Turn on Gerus.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u160	I'm out of town, if I may. In fact, this amendment is designed to allow solar panels to be installed in the same way in garden societies and in close cooperatives. Because it's impossible to prescribe in these buildings, but there are people who actually live there and also need to be able to put solar panels. That is why it can be supported. I will personally vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u161	Thank you. 49th, shall I make it clear again? 49 Amendment to Ichchenka’s Authorship She was rejected by the committee. At the same time, the chairman of the committee says that in principle there is logic in this amendment. I'll bet 49 you an adjustment. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:01:19]] For 275 Decision taken. Let us move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the restoration and green transformation of Ukraine's energy system (registration number 9011-d). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:02:00]] For 279 Decision taken. Please, Motovilovec, one second, Motovilovec.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u162	My friends, we have a representative of the European Union in the hall tomorrow. We have the Law that we have removed, but now we see that there is a consensus, we need to vote it in general, and in general, 8290 is about supporting food security and animal development. I ask you to put to the vote the inclusion and the vote for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, 8290, is an offer to return to the agenda today and vote, such as Motovílovec’s offer. People's deputies please vote in favour of this proposal. [[15:03:00]] For 236 Decision taken. That's why we are now Bill 8290, a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on improving national regulation of food security and animal development, we agreed to vote without discussion. I therefore propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on improving national regulation of food security and animal development (registration No. 8290). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:03:48]] For 248 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, a second, another statement came from two factions: a break with a replacement for the performance. The rifle comes out and then we announce a break. Three minutes
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u164	Thank you. Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! You know, there's been a London conference on Ukraine's reconstruction for days. And this is the second Conference of the Great and the continuation of last year's conference in Lugano with regard to the restoration of our state. I want to point out that 60 countries and 400 companies from 38 countries participated in this Conference. And this is really a great success for our nation, because the question of reconstruction today is very acute in the context of the return of our citizens and in the context of the restoration of our state, both economically and infrastructureally. The conference announced that the European Union would allocate 50 billion by 2027 for the speedy restoration of our state and for the tax deficit. Britain is providing guarantees to the World Bank for 3 billion dollars for our state this year, as well as $1.3 billion for the critical and energy infrastructure of our state. Friends, in the context of Croatia's post-war experience, in the context of Bosnia and Herzegovina's experience, economic recovery is important. If we want to restore our state, if we want the Ukrainians to return home, it's important to restore the economy, it's important to bring investment into our country, it's important to create taxes that will fill our budget. So in this context, we have to move. And today both the President of Ukraine and the five principles that were announced at the London Conference, our entire diplomatic corps, the Ministry of Reconstruction, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are making an effort, and today we are talking about restoring our state around the economy, around private investment. And just like that, we're going to bring our citizens back around and restore our social and critical infrastructure. I want to point out that today we have a successful result of working together to rebuild a particular country. This is Estonia's restoration of Zitomirschina, and this is the formula that President Vladimir Zelensky came up with in March 2022 that countries are patronizing specific regions. And in early June, we opened the first building to rebuild Ukraine at a foreign cost -- a new, modern childhood garden in Ovruč. And these are the children, this is about our future. Portugal is now joining in the restoration of Zitomirsk. And that's exactly what happens when there's a magnet country that takes over the area and restores other partners. And one of the challenges that we have today is the discovery and filling of content, and the effectiveness of regional offices in international cooperation, so that countries can work with specific regions. We already have the first results: Dnipro – Czech Republic, Chernigu – Latvia. That's why we work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to give you the word of Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u166	According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian national MP Minka Sergio Anatoliyovich from the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-30-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, the day - to - day consideration of matters of order has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session, the time and place of its continuation will be notified to you in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. Together to victory and glory to Ukraine!
