ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the ruling we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I point out that in accordance with the rulings adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, once again, we will have many personal questions today, and I would very much like to hear about them an hour after we are finished. Do we have a deal?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u2	As long as I'm speaking to the people's deputies, because without them, Ukrainian Truth is definitely not going to know. Really? Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, a recess will be announced in the plenary and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Friends, let's start with the parliamentary tradition of performing the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, the second year of decisive opposition by Ukraine to the Russian Federation's large-scale military incursion takes place. Everlasting glory to the defenders and protectors who, with weapons in their hands, stand up for the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine in the field of battle. Glory be to each and every one, to all those who approach our victory with their hard work. So I ask you to honor the moment of silence of the memory of all the fallen in the fights for Ukraine, as well as of all the peaceful citizens killed by the criminal aggression of the Russian State, the terrorist. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes' time to the day's agenda for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. So I'm asking representatives of the MP factions and groups to sign up. But as long as our colleagues, the distinguished national deputies, are recorded, today is the birthday of our colleague of the national MP Yuri Mikhailovich Misegin, "Serve of the People". Let's welcome Yuri Mikhailovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u3	Dear friends, more than a year after the outbreak of full-scale aggression for the ninth year of war, we still have one of the most important issues: the presence in the authorities and the potential presence in the authorities of those people representing the pro-Russian political parties. Of course, these parties are already recognized and banned at state level. But once again, we have continuous and continuous information that, at the local level and at the national level, new criminal cases are being opened, new and new initiatives are being taken to ensure that the pro-Russian representatives of the former LRA, the former Party of the Regions, the former Sharia Party, are somehow excluded from the process of accessing and adopting public decisions. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council doesn't answer these social questions, and it's multiplying, and there's a variety of legislative initiatives. Recently, colleagues in the queue offered a so - called anti - Russian illustration. Sadly, we do not resolve these questions. What is the result? As a result, these questions begin to rise and seem to be resolved in places. The local councils have already decided to expel the former LLDC from their ranks. There are petitions, as is now being actively convened by a sectional initiative to exclude the pro-Russian MPs from "The Opposition Platform for Life" from the Kyiv City Council. Why is that still happening? Because even those bills that are clearly within the framework of the Constitution that allow for the expulsion from the local authorities, in fact, of all the pro-Russian deputies, do not look at us with you. I'm asking a lot of questions, and I understand that this is not just the responsibility of the Conciliation Council, but the active work of the committees, actually, the professional committees, to consider the initiatives of the Cabinet of Ministers that allow, above all, to deprive the mandates of the deputies of the pro-Russian parties and to reduce the quorum in the local authorities to, in fact, the quantity that is reduced, and to find mechanisms to eliminate "Russian peace" from all the halls, in particular from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u4	Please, Kowalczuk, Servant of the People. You're transmitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u5	Please pass the word to my colleague, Olga Rudenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u6	Olga Rudenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, today I have the honour to present the results of our delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Inter-Parliamentary Union, the 146th Assembly, the oldest inter-parliamentary organization that brings together 170 parliaments of the world. I want to thank our team for working very hard for six days. And I also want to thank our geopolitical group 12 plus, which made our visit possible. If there is an ideal platform for developing Ukraine’s relationship with the Global South, this is the Inter-Parliamentary Union. Now I'm going to pass the word to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, I would like to congratulate our colleagues who have been elected to the governing bodies of the three committees of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. We also held more than 40 meetings of bilaterals with our colleagues from other parliaments of the world. The central themes were the expansion of the coalition for the establishment of a tribunal to condemn the crimes of aggression and the implementation of the "peace formula" of Zelenski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u9	We have also succeeded in cooperating with Latin America, the Caribbean, Africa and many other countries of the world, of course, with the countries of European democratic countries, to adopt the Resolution, which is our third resolution, including in Ukraine. And this time, the resolution was about humanitarian issues and condemning the killing of civilians, especially the deportation of Ukrainian children to Russia. Only through such serious cooperation with other continents and with the Global South has the coalition against Putin succeeded. And the stigma on Putin's neck is getting longer and longer, and the Global South is also beginning to realize how important it is to fight for international law and fight a dictator and a murderer. I thank the entire delegation once again, I am proud to be a member of this delegation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u10	The word is given to Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer, a group called "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u11	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, we and the whole world must remember that the unpunished evil returns stronger, so we must bring Russian inhumans to justice. Ukraine’s victory cannot be complete without Russia’s punishment and all those involved in war crimes, genocide, crimes against humanity must be held accountable. We welcome the ruling of the International Criminal Court on arrest warrants by the Russian president of a war criminal and his accomplice, the so-called child-rights commissioner, is another step towards attracting and fully responsible Russia. All together, the President of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General's Office, our parliamentary delegation in Paris, other parliamentary delegations, we are doing our best to have Russia's military and political leadership convicted by the Special International Tribunal, for the main and most terrible crime of aggression, for the very incursion into Ukraine. 33 countries have already been involved, which have declared their participation in the coalition for the creation of a special tribunal. Then, when our Ukrainian Armed Forces are expelling the invader, clearing our land of evil, our main task is to deepen Russia's isolation on the diplomatic front. Our delegation in PARJE introduced the idea of creating a special tribunal at the beginning of a full-scale invasion by adopting a resolution calling on 46 countries of the Council of Europe to create a special tribunal. We now have 12 resolutions of PARJE and the European Parliament, which will result in the mandatory involvement of criminals in the responsibility and establishment of such a court. NOW THE PARATURE is headed with. Our delegation led by Maria Mezentseva is working on adopting a resolution in April of this year on the urgent debate on the kidnapping of Ukrainian children and the forced deportation of Ukrainians and on the crime of genocide. Because now in Ukraine, Russia has been implementing the largest kidnapping of children since the Holocaust by another state. We all know that according to official data, 16,000 226 children were deported to the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus and temporarily occupied territories. Thus, all of this is clearly covered by article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. And that's why we have to do everything we can to stop this genocide. The arms and weapons of a terrorist country in many cities of Ukraine look at us and demand justice, and there will be no impunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u12	The word is given to the national deputy Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich. I understand, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolayovich, right? Please, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u13	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! With the priority of the tasks facing the Ukrainian people, they can be distributed as follows. First of all, it's our job, of course, that's the main task of victory over Russian aggression. And the second, equally important, is the social protection of Ukrainian citizens who have suffered from Russian aggression. So these are the tasks that are before us today and that are exactly what we need to do, and they need to be done. And I would ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the national deputies of Ukraine to respond quickly and at the right time to the challenges we face. 'Cause we're on our way. We need to gather and plan the next life in Ukraine after the victory. There, I would like to put the main task ahead of us, this is to restore the employment potential of Ukraine and improve the demographic situation. Because the future is only in a country where working citizens can ensure the normal existence of pensioners and disabled people. What do I mean today? We passed Law 3663. The Social Policy Committee has been given a powerful think tank and a foundation for the social insurance of our citizens. To date, I have passed the Ukrainian Law 8331 -- that is to transfer the functions of the Unemployment Fund to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. And if they opposed the previous law on the transfer of the functions of the Social Insurance Fund to corrupt professional associations and their representatives in this room, today, to my surprise, the Ministry of Economics and the Cabinet of Ministers oppose this law. I'd like to ask you very much, Galina Mikolayevna, let's get them together and let's face it, let them explain today what the content of the unemployment fund is, if they're helping 80,000 unemployed today, including 15,000 workers. Can you tell me where these ratios might be? They're also from the social contributions of Ukrainian citizens, they're using funds for expenses that aren't provided for by law at all. Don't they count what social security contributions are? It's a deferred salary. Humans do not put aside a work plan to compensate employers for job creation and many other issues under certain schemes. And we need to start talking about it. I'm convinced that we have conscious people working in the government who will go to the meeting and realize that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u14	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Volodymyr Viktorovich, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u15	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to welcome the entire Ukrainian people with what we've been through in the winter and we're successfully approaching the end of the heating period. Taking this opportunity, I would like to congratulate all the members of the community on their professional festival that they celebrated recently and to thank them for the work they did throughout the year. And thank you for not repeating Alcevsky, who was a few years ago who wanted to turn this winter. [[Unheard]] To Ukrainian defenders, to our heroic energies, and finally to the consolidation of the entire Ukrainian society, and to the power that has expanded thousands of points of integrity, we have been able to withstand this difficult winter. At the same time, many Ukrainians have organized in their homes points of integrity. Nor did we destroy the Ukrainian coalition in the world, which responded quickly to the need for repairs and financing of our energy assistance. We are grateful for this support. The state has done its utmost to protect the population from the price shocks of housing services during the most difficult winter period. Until the heating season comes to an end, a moratorium on the raising of tariffs and services of the LHC is in place. We've heard the government's position on the need to review such tariffs, and the deputy group "Delivery of Ukraine" is proposing to consider the economic possibility of extending the relevant moratorium to the next heating period. At the same time, in the absence of compensatory mechanisms, any change in tariff policy should be based on the real capacity of the population. It is also necessary to update the grant tool to protect all vulnerable forms of Ukrainian society. The war continues, along with numerous economic challenges. Gentlemen, we are well aware that our economic potential is paramount in providing for Ukrainian defence needs and further reconstruction. I understand it's what our opponents want to blow up. Despite his opposition, we are restoring Ukrainian exports. The great victory of our nation is the 120-day extension of the "grain corridor" that has already been exported to more than 24 million tons of grain. Equally important was the prolongation of the EU's transport capacity, which is key in the bilateral trade between Ukraine and the European Union. In line with the continuation of the EU credit regime, trade with the EU Colleagues, the parliament of a warring country, primarily has the task of supporting Ukrainian defenders. An important period is approaching, and perhaps the key point of this war is that our Armed Forces have ambitious plans to restore state sovereignty and we must support their financing. I believe the Supreme Council will make an important deposit today and 518 billion dollars -- we will support change.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u16	Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna. Porcelain Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Today is a very important day because we are looking at changes to the State Budget for this year. During the changes to the state budget, there can be no other priorities in the warring country than securing the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is a holiday of saints, and the rest will be decided after our victory. We'll build a lot of nice roads, but once we win. And please explain to the community why 30 grand is missing from every Ukrainian soldier, and there is money for the sad theft of roads, and for the financing of private, stressed, private TV channels that can only love Ukraine for budget money? In the marathon, which is censored by officials, where black lists of banned Newmeyers are made up, which are full of claims in society and even in today's report by the United States Department of State, I stress that these words about violations of the standards of freedom of speech are financed by the state budget. I also want to emphasize that it's impossible to believe this, and the state has a debt to the families of the fallen heroes. Regrettably, many have died. Debt is astronomical. And how do we, alive, allow such abuse of the memory of heroes and also of those who gave their lives for Ukraine? And you and I need to take action now to pay off this debt immediately. We're taking the first step, and I want to thank, perhaps for the first time, the budget committee for taking into account my amendment, Peter Prashenko, and David Arahamaia for the allocation of 3 billion from the reserve fund to pay off those who lost their loved ones on the front. The second question is after the Moose Tree and the Herson fly. We need to simplify the procedure because those who have fled have received rewards and are now receiving good money. And those who have perished for a year claim the right to bury their loved ones with honor. And yesterday, during our meeting with General Zaluzhny, we agreed that we would draft a bill that would allow them to be counted by the signature of the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State. Guys, we need to support the budget today. Thank you for your unity. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna And then we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u19	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs, we are all aware that war is long. It's a war in culture, in politics, in education, in spiritual space. The ambitions of Putin and the Moscow horde are obvious to all. And we are aware that the marathon ahead, and we politicians need to properly calculate our forces. In particular, I want to emphasize the importance of conceptual and strategic things that directly determine our victory. First of all, it's about the humanitarian sphere, the culture and education, because that's where the ideas are generated, because it's where both the vectors of our development and the vectors of our future are generated. At the same time, a small episode with the great Shevchenk Prize showed that even in the environments that claim to belong to the elite, not everything is good. You must be all in solidarity and welcome to today's winners of the Chevchenk Prize is Horey Kozack, Irina Zilik, Catherine Kalitko, Vitaly Portnikova. But at the same time, we see Russian rust and corrosion eating through even such authoritative institutions. The war moved us to accelerate the cleansing of Ukraine’s spiritual space. The process is initiated, but relapses are, and in particular, with the opaque conviction of the highest art award of Shevchenk for an anthology called "Crime Cobzar." Think of this archaeological title, absurd in its essence: The Chewchenk Prize is for the book Creme Cobzara. Because it is this book that offers the concept of Ukrainian literature and culture, where there should be Ukrainian classical literature in the paws, and Russian classical literature. It's a concept that agrees with the ideology of the only people and the good Russian. Sadly, this is the very purpose of the prize’s statute and the revision of Shevchenk’s work, which has always been a spiritual prism in all periods of history. We should be as national deputies to evaluate such phenomena, for time is too short. Our children, our writers, our creators, our artists, our journalists -- that is, everyone who is the elite of Ukrainian literature. Therefore, the Group "For the Future" is asking, first of all, to introduce in the Hall those bills aimed at clearing Ukraine's spiritual space from the Russian narratives. Next: To the ministries and the government, propose an updated concept of humanitarian development. And the third is about the Shevchenk Prize.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Ah, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. And then there's Olena Kostvena, and then we're going to talk about the agenda, the honourable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u21	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the distinguished national MPs! Today, indeed, is a very important day: in this session room, we will be adopting changes to the State Budget. With these changes, we will finally establish justice for those who defend peace not only in Ukraine but throughout the world. And the Fatherland faction will support these changes. It's very important for us to realize that the budget that our citizens are taxing today is going to the defence sector. But we should not forget, but how this budget is formed, how government agencies create conditions for small, medium and large businesses to work today. And what I want to believe today is that there are alarming signals about the blocking of tax receipts and others, I sincerely believe that this is a misunderstanding that will still allow justice to be established and not block the functioning of those structures that are paying taxes today. We now have in this session room a number of other important bills to support both the military and all sectors of the economy in order for this budget to be filled in. There are also personal questions on the agenda. It is essential that these personnel changes bring about improvements in the public administration system, especially in the defence sector. Because when we talk about Ucrobronprom, we have and understand those non-state enterprises that today help produce equipment, ammunition for the defence sector. And first of all, I want to pay attention to the candidate for the Minister of Education, because at any time in society, education was always the basis. Today, we must not forget those children who, because of the war, go to other countries, especially Europe, and they have there, learning to remember that they will come back here to Ukraine, and their knowledge needs to be adapted to today's conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u22	Please, Olena Kostvena Kondratjuk, and then let's move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u23	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Putin was ordered to be arrested. This is the event that we have been waiting for and certainly applauding the International Criminal Court. And you know that the warrant has to do with crimes against Ukrainian children, their forced deportation, and their ruse. This is one of the signs of genocide, by the way, written by a special convention of the United Nations. But while the International Court of Justice is making accusations against Putin and his gang, our children are actually being held hostage in an aggressor country in the country of the Russian Federation. 16,000 226 Ukrainian children deported by Russia. Imagine this figure, this is an official figure that's already documented, is the population of the cyclist, for example, the Kremenec, and this is the official figure with the confirmed data. In fact, these children are really very, very many -- thousands of Ukrainian children. The Russian Federation's terrorist country does not allow our children to return to their parents, or even to give a message about themselves. They're shown on the cameras, they're adopted, and they're actually outside the cameras, they're actually in the filtration camps, they're already over 40, they're called educational camps, but they're actually genocide camps. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has repeatedly made its judgments, as well as its separate rulings. But unfortunately, the reaction of the professional international organizations that we've been addressing, which should actually be dealing with, is primarily with the protection of children's rights, not allowing them to be exported to the Russian Federation is very and very weak. In particular, it is the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, the International Committee of the Red Cross, which has a mandate to act on these issues in accordance with the Geneva Convention, and to help our children return home. So we need to act more actively and louder. First of all, of course, the spring session of PARJE, and we are counting heavily on urgent debates to take place. This will be the first political evaluation on an international issue document to record violations of Ukrainian children's rights by a terrorist country, the Russian Federation. The other one. It is a summit of leaders of the Council of Europe that will take place in Reykjavik in late May. Third. This is a summit of European Union Parliaments. Of course, I urge all of you at any meeting to address this issue, because it's a matter of our future. I am also pleased that our efforts are supported in the world and that the first European Commission, together with Poland, the United Nations-UN, are launching initiatives to find our children. Once again, I urge you to pay particular attention to this most painful question that is now in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u24	Thank you, Your Honor. We're done speaking. Let's move on to our process. First of all, honourable national deputies, the Ukrainian Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the government participate in the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] I will ask everyone who is not members of the government to take their seats in their seats. You'll be part of the government, you'll be in it. As long as your seats are in the hall, dear colleagues. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I propose that a signal vote be held before consideration of the issues begins. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Please take part in the signal vote. People's deputies please vote, signal vote. [[10:45:58]] For 216 For 216, against 7, hold on to 4. The epidemic went on down the hall I can see. Dear colleagues, once again, I appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. National deputies, a list of issues that were previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, you are given, we are moving on to its consideration. The first questions are with the staff. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of a parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which includes most Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council the appointment of Fedorov Mikhail Albertovich as Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine for Innovation, Development of Education, Science and Technology - Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine, the relevant materials are given to you. At the Conciliation Council, we agreed on the following procedure. Presentation by the Prime Minister for up to 2 minutes, a statement by the candidate for office for up to 3 minutes, a question by a candidate from the national MPs to 6 minutes (1 minutes to question, 2 minutes to answer), a report from the committee to 2 minutes, statements from the MPs and groups to 2 minutes to speak, and a decision to make. Up to 32 minutes each assignment will be. So, honourable national MPs, let's move on to the question. Mr Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, Prime Minister of Ukraine, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u25	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished presidency, distinguished national MPs, Ukrainians and Ukrainians! According to article 85, paragraph 12, and article 114, part four, of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to the proposal of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which according to article 83, part ten, of the Constitution of Ukraine has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call, to submit the appointment of Fedorov Mikhail Albertovich as Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine for Innovation, Development of Education, Science and Technology, Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine. Requesting your support, distinguished national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u26	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich! The candidate for the position of Mikhail Albertovich Fedorov is invited to the floor. Let's welcome him.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u27	Good day to you all! During this time, while we've created the Mincify and thanks to your support, we've made some technological progress. Today, only 19 million users are using Dia. This year, we're sure to finish digitizing the most popular services. You and I have launched one of the best tax regimes in the world and legal regimes for IT companies is DijaSiti. Two weeks before the war, 40,000 IT specialists have been incorporated into this direction, into this legal regime. We're developing digital education, over a million and a half Ukrainians have passed the Dia Project. Digital education," got certificates, got knowledge integrated into the new economy. We are actively developing the sphere of telecommunications. It was only last year that 6,000 social infrastructure objects were connected, thanks to the Internet Subsidy. So all the goals we've set for Mincifre for 3 years, we're actively implementing them, and this year, the most important projects will be successfully completed and transformed into new goals. And it's also now facing an important challenge in our country -- it's a war, it's a reconstruction, and it's a human capital issue. Human capital is the most valuable asset in our country. Today there are many major problems, we have 3,000 schools damaged by Russian bombs, a little more than 300 schools in general destroyed. We have 1.5 million kids today learning online, a million children and more abroad. Big challenges, and we need to respond very quickly to them, and we need to make sure that our education system transforms quickly. In a new position, if you support it, we'll help the Ministry of Education do this transformation path that we did in the Ministry of Digital Transformation. There are four directions that we want to focus on. The first is the transformation of management in the education system. We want to give maximum freedom to educational managers so that they can hire talented managers, educators who will teach our children with you, maximum freedom, de-bureaucratization, improvement of the conditions where children are taught. The next direction is very important, it's the direction of digitalization of education. The best experience we've ever done in Action, we're going to transfer to education, and we're going to do everything we can to get parents and children to the ultimate digital service and overcome bureaucracy in that direction. The next important step is the area of innovation and military technology. What we're doing now in the drone army project, as we're developing through ancients, BPLA in the area of innovation, we have to scale up and this is the future of our digital economy. So in a month we'll be running a military-cluster brain one that will be doing what we do to develop military-starters in our country. And the last direction is the development of a strategy, the implementation in general in all directions of the innovation strategy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u28	Thank you, Michael Albertovich, thank you. There will be more questions for you. Please, Your Honor, please sign up for a question to a candidate from the National Deputies. I'll remind you, it takes up to six minutes. Please sign up. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Road Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u29	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Mr. President. I'd like to thank you and the entire ministry for what you've done and will do. I'd like to talk to you about an idea that the previous sittings have not found support, it's the clearing up of cars through DiaCity. Is the Ministry planning, or are you planning to go back to this idea? Still, I think we'll find the votes and support her in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. Of course, we plan, this is one of the most anti-corruption projects in the near future that we want to implement. We'll reintroduce the bill into the hall, look for your support. At the same time, the Ministry of Internal Affairs supported an online car registration project. So now we're also going to be transforming the centers of the IMF. We are now promoting such an approach that it is only necessary to launch automatic services without the involvement of officials, human factors. And it's the blurry in Action that's one of those projects that's going to help fight corruption. As a result, you and I will be able to implement this project with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u31	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Yacenko Anton Volodymyrovich, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I have two questions for you. They relate to the humanitarian aid and the path system. Today, unfortunately, there is no humanitarian aid register available to the last consumer. And similarly, on the path system, it's a closed system, it's only able to get MPs on demand, ordinary people can't see and there's a lot of abuse. For example, in the Cherkas region, where today such shameful things were, according to the S.B.I.U.S., the sale of armoured vests in supermarkets under the direct direction of the governor, as he calls himself, the head of O.V.T.T.T. Igor Ivanovich, former assistant, by the way, deputy Zavniwicz. But society doesn't see it, and it needs to be automated, and so that we can see even the officials who sign it, they see it. So I wanted to hear your opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. The most important principle that we put in any IT system is the ability to log in. So that it doesn't matter who runs this organization, who comes after this person has left a digital trail to find out what's been going on there and who's been doing different things, and very often illegal acts. So, as far as I know, there's also a digital trail in the path system and there's a log-in for all of the events. And so everything that doesn't happen in this system today is logged in, and law enforcement has access to be able to do some sort of guidance on certain actions, certain officials. So I think it's the only recipe that can help solve these issues is to log in all the actions that are in this system. Of course, the formation of a policy on this clear, fair, transparent policy about who should go out, what rules should these be the only rules for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u34	Please, National Deputy Kacny Alexander Stalinolevich, MP's Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u35	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u36	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u37	Thank you, Mr. Head! Mr. Secretary, I'm going to have to ask you questions regarding the compilation of various areas of authority in your new status as Deputy Prime Minister. I'll have a question about innovation. In this regard, I wanted to clarify the specific parameters for assessing the objectivity of your further work in this direction. Because we have negative parameters, well, at least look at the Global Innovation Index over the last two years we've moved from 45 to 57. If we're taking innovation issues, a serious deficit in financial resources, high interest rates, the outflow of foreign direct investment, the fall in capital investment, all those factors that are holding back the activation of innovation in Ukraine. As a result, we have only 1.9 percent of enterprises that introduce innovative products or more precisely parts of innovative enterprises in industrial quantities. What effectiveness parameters do you evaluate for yourself in this direction, so that we can further assess your activity in a year or two? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. From the beginning, in Mincifre, we've been building management just for clear purposes on KPI, not many ministries have clear goals like us, a hundred percent of services have this level of satisfaction. We have, for example, an internal KPI for the development of the digital economy. And how much of the digital economy should our country's GDP have? So the fourth item on which I first stopped was that I needed to create a strategy that would answer the question: What will Ukraine be in the area of innovation, what does it want to do, what does it want to be in three, five, seven, ten years? And it is in this strategy that all of the KPIs we're talking about will be included. But really, it's on all the scales. The same will apply to the fields of education. Today the candidate will talk about it and you will see strategy how. After that, we'll move. So now we're going to start shaping this strategy, exploring the best world experience: what other countries are doing in the fight for human capital, and we're going to put all of this into a specific K.R.I. in the implementation of this strategy. And there's going to be a lot of -- it's both productivity and the role of some spheres, including the digital economy in our country's GDP. And I think there's going to be a lot of these criteria that can now show the dynamics of our economy moving towards development.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u39	Thank you, Mikhail Albertovich. We still have a final question. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. It's a faction of European Solidarity. Then we move on. Please, Mikhaylo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u40	Thank you. Please give me the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u41	Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u42	Thank you, Mr. Head. You know, the opposition in this room rarely praises the candidates, but, frankly, I want to compliment Mr. Fedorov. Of course, digitization today and the digitization that you are actually leading is a key innovation breakthrough in Ukraine and what Ukraine can be proud of in general in the various countries of the world, they look at it with wonder. The question I have in this key is this. How do you plan on further developing this course? And the key thing is, I'd like you to answer as much as possible: are you planning on using the Action in the electoral process?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u43	Yeah, come on, let's start at the end. In order to use the Action in this process, you need the CLTC initiative, the laws of parliament and many other normative decisions, but above all, it's trust in the law enforcement system, trust in the authorities. No country that tried to introduce such instruments of direct electronic democracy was able to do that because of the level of trust in institutions. So the question is definitely not in the order of the day. As for how we're going to continue to develop our ministry, to be honest, we're still doing innovation today, we're still doing military technology, we're still doing digital economy today. The management is built in such a way that we are able to run the commands that run these projects, implement these projects, are quite effective. So this is a management issue, we're going to scale it with no problem. And I'm sure the Ministry of Education and the candidate for which you're voting today will be able to deal with this task and will be strengthening the transformation and education and innovation. Because today we have a common vision of what we need to do. And we don't need a few more years of synchronization to be successful and effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u44	Thank you. It was the final question from the hall. But Olena Kostvena from the Presidium asked one question. Mikhail Albertovich, you're very popular today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u45	Good afternoon. Mr. Michael, I have a question. We met yesterday with the presidency, faction leaders, and military groups. And, you know, the most painful question that all of our military personnel are going through right now, especially the wounded, is, of course, what they call hell, the military medical commissions. Yesterday was a reassuring answer from the military that you would start digitizing this service. Can you tell me any plans, at least when this can be done? Because a very sensitive question, at least it constantly arises, it does not disappear. And we realize that after the victory, we're going to have an absolutely large number of veterans who also need certain services, including fast, fast ones, to be, you know, dignified and consistent with their status. Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the question of VLC is one of the most painful questions of the day. And it was the Prime Minister who initiated the creation of a group that dealt with the issue. And we're actively involved. We've already brought a thousand and a half laptops to Ukraine for medical centres, for medical commissions, for hospitals, to introduce a medical information system in which documents will run, not our military, among state institutions. So now there's a parallel training for doctors and hospital management, in parallel with the introduction of the medical information system. We need another and a half thousand laptops to fully secure this process. And now we're running a paperwork between the military and the hospital so our military won't drive between parts and hospitals in a state where we don't have to do it exactly. So I think there's going to be a half a year's noticeable results. In fact, the process of transformation of the medical force is difficult in terms of the implementation management project, but six months will be a noticeable result. During the year, if medical aid is available, we will be able to complete this reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u47	Thank you. We're done. Thank you, Mikhail Albertovich. The chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Digital Transformation, Mikhailo Valeriyovich Kryachko, please, is invited to speak for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u48	On 20 March 23rd, the Digital Transformation Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed the submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine of the appointment of Fedorov Mikhail Albertovich as Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine for innovation, development of education, science and technology, the Minister for Digital Transformation of Ukraine. As a result of the review, the Digital Transformation Committee decided to support the submission and recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with section 12 of the first article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine that Fedorov Mikhail Albertovich be appointed Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine for Innovation, Development of Education, Science and Technology, Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a two-minute performance from the MP factions and groups. Please. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u50	Please give my word to my colleague, Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u51	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u52	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, we talked a lot about Dee City, innovation and so on, but I don't see Mr. Michael anywhere. Oh, I see. But I would like to thank all the Ukrainians and military personnel for two very important things. It's an Adron army, it's actually the right hand of the Ministry of Defense, the General Staff and every unit, the brigade, the military security unit. And I know how you got to the point where you got to the point where you got to the point where you got to the point where you didn't have to red tape, quickly and quickly set up the supply, starting with "oldies," ending with the smallest Mavik and the biggest drone. And the second. This is what every family of ours, every family of yours, is a military-medical commission. I don't think there's enough uncensored words to say about what's going on with this VLC all over Ukraine, and how in a year a minimum number of things have been done to make it clear, obvious, not hammocked and respectful of every fighter who comes there: (a) to mobilize, to treat, to review all these terrible things, to start standing up from the fifth morning and seeing their attitude towards themselves. The Ministry of Digital Transformation itself, Michael Fedorov, has proposed to the MOU and the MlH to lead the project. And since May, I hope we get an electronic queue. Dear colleagues, I know you're loud in the hall and you're not, in principle. But each of you calls the head of the TCC, the head of the V.V.C., the head of your O.K., the military and so on, and they start making arrangements for the V.V.C. Because the level of corruption, the shackles, and the mess. And the Ministry of Digital Transformation, which has nothing to do with it at all, has led the process of bringing it into order. I want to thank you for that. Then we'll be in favor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u53	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, MP's "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u54	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please pass the word to Coltunovich Alexander. He's on his way to the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u55	We see Alexander Koltunovich going to the rostrum. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u56	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, as we began the discussion with the candidate. For me personally, the main priority of his position is to overcome the raw economic orientation, the technological underdevelopment of Ukraine. It's an undeniable priority. And because he has this position called the Vice - Prime Minister of Innovation, Science, Technology, it is the absolute priority of today’s technological policy. Because what we've been talking about, the Global Innovation Index has dropped from 45th to 57th. The Global Competitiveness Index is 85th in 140 countries around the world. We have one of the lowest chains in the world at the level of productivity, energy efficiency of production, competitiveness of manufactured products. It's all exports, industrial production, jobs, budget comings and so on. That's where an economically successful country is formed. So that's definitely an important way to go about this. But what we haven't heard and what you want to take into account in your work is directly specific indicators of achievement and so on. Why did I ask about the share of innovation in industrial production? Because 1.9 percent in the 20th or 21st year is nothing in the structure of industrial production. This indicates that we do not have an element of scientific, innovative novelty at all. This means that in the structure of GDP, we have raw production, in the structure of exports, raw exports. All these negative things need to be overcome and implemented by innovative modern energy-saving technologies in order to increase the competitiveness of produced products inside Ukraine. We support your candidacy, but please consider all these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u57	Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u58	Mr. Head, I'd like to give the word to Ariev Volodymyr. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u59	Vladimir Igorovich Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u60	The digitization, I think, is probably the only branch since the 19th year where the real breakthrough took place. And here I want to thank Michael Fedorov for his good work. I know you have a lot of innovation plans, but I'm very grateful not to get carried away. What do you mean? To admire is to try to run an election through any plugins with the possibility of personal identification. The action or others have been developed separately. Because if this is introduced into the Electoral Code, in the Ukrainian legislation, clearly, these elections will not be recognized as democratic and European, particularly in line with the OSCE/BDIPL recommendation, precisely because two key norms cannot be met, it is a secret vote, and a personal vote in the constituency. So at this point, I would very much ask you to forget this idea at all, because the only possible electronic voting is in polling stations like this, for example, the system that exists in the Netherlands. And it's very hard and expensive to implement. One second. I ask you very much to do everything we can to avoid one great danger. Even in the Supreme Council, there are technical nodes, technological links, and production nodes of the People’s Republic of China. And so now it's a question for all of Europe and for us about the security of our communications, especially in the area of security and defence. And the third moment. Open the register at last. I like your position. I would ask Prime Minister Schmigal to pay attention to this, and yet to make a decision on the opening of registers in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u61	Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Kowalczuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u63	Alexander Kowalczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear Mikhaylo Albertovich, Honorary Minister of Fedorov, give us two words. Dear colleagues, I have now listened attentively to the speeches of my colleagues in this rostrum about support, the full support of Mincify and Mikhail Fedorov. But he was surprised, a few weeks ago, when in this very room, the parliamentary majority did not gather votes to support an extremely important bill on clearing cars in Acts. Today we talked to Michael about the fact that, literally tomorrow, we're going to meet with representatives of the State Customs to talk about bringing this bill back to the table, improving it and further developing it, and I don't know what it's going to be in to edit you into. Dear colleagues, I urge you the next time this bill is in the hall, so that exactly the number of votes that we will now support Mr. Michael, we will support these bills. They're extremely important and, believe me, it's the only way, the only mechanism to overcome corruption in the area of dispersion of vehicles in Ukraine. There's no other way. We've tried different things, nothing works. And you testify to the words I say. Another important initiative. I wanted to ask Mr. Michael a question, but I wish you success in the work on bills related to improving taxation. It's an extremely important initiative, it's now about alcohol and tobacco. And these bills will soon be in the Supreme Council and we will vote on them, and this will allow the budget to be filled. And it's too much to talk about how important it is to have money in our budget today, and it's going to put an end to corruption in these areas, in the areas of taxpayer goods. And that's just the beginning of Minzifra.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, the final performance. Paul Andryovich, please, Bakunets, and then we move on to making a decision. People's deputies, please take your seats while you take your seats on the left. I hope after the vote you'll go to the right bed. Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Head, Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine, distinguished nationals, dear candidates. Of course, first of all, we thank you for your electronic services, for what you have already done. In times of war, of course, we speak of our most courageous defenders and protectors. We thank them for their eyes. We also today, assigning you to the high office of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, in fact, ask you in your work to pay attention to the need to help our defenders and their families not to run any further with papers in different offices so that they don't stand in queues in the corridors under the cabinets. So clearly, it's important for those who go on vacation, our military personnel. Especially for those who have been injured and who pass the V.V.C., so that they don't run on boards, but everything happens electronically. And most importantly, especially for the relatives of our heroes, so that the waves don't run for weeks, places, proving that their relative is a hero, they don't need to prove anything anymore, he's a hero. And so, clearly, we need to make sure that all the family documents are done and that they do not overstress. And what's important is that it's definitely a car for our military personnel, the clearing of the car in Action, and the zero rate of import of the car for those who have won the war effort. They deserve it, and you and I have to do it for our defenders. Thank you very much. To you, the fruitful work.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, and I'll give you my word to Alexander Sergiyovich and we'll proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, Mikhail Albertovich, we are very much involved in parliamentary diplomacy and, frankly, in action and what you are doing is one of our serious export products in Ukraine. And that's one of the examples where, as a country, we're exporting not just raw materials, not just products, but our technologies, our brains, and the work of these brains. So I want to make sure that our education is like an export product. And over the course of five years, we've seen that Ukrainian education, secondary, higher, professional, has become the same export product of Ukraine, students from around the world are coming to us and we're continuing to rebuild ourselves as a serious education country. That's why we're on the right track!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, after so many fine words, we need to move on to a successful vote. So I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats, so let's move on to making a decision. According to article 85, part four, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. I am voting for the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 9131) on the appointment of Fedorov Mikhail Albertovich as Prime Minister of Ukraine for innovation, development of education, science and technology, the Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:18:43]] For 311 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the day of his appointment before his appointment shall serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine from innovation, development of education, science and technology – Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine Mikhailo Albertovich Fedorov – is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Mikhail Albertovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u70	I, Fedorov Mikhail Albertovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the continued democratic development of society. [[Applause]] Thank you all and Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u71	Heroim Slava! Mikhail Albertovich, we would very much like to sign these things with digital signatures in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u72	I can.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again we thank and welcome Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Mikhailo Albertovich, when I wrote in Facebook about Fedorov's application. You have no idea, I had to change my post and reassure the citizens that everything is going to be normal with Fedorov, and this is a great trust not only from the Parliamentary Hall, but from the entire people of Ukraine. So thank you and your fruitful success in the future. Dear colleagues, let's move on, we have two more candidates. Accordingly, according to articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People" composed of the majority of Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and which has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council an application for the appointment of Kamishin Alexandr Mikolayovich to the post of Minister for Strategic Industries of Ukraine. The right materials are given to you. At the Conciliation Council, we agreed on this procedure: presenting the candidate by the Prime Minister for up to 2 minutes, speaking to the Minister of Strategic Industry for up to 3 minutes, questions to the candidate from the people's deputies to 6 minutes, ratio, co-report, I apologize, from the committee to 2 minutes, statements from the MPs and groups to 16 minutes, 2 minutes to the speech, decision-making. Will there be no objection? None. Then, honourable national MPs, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to the floor to represent the candidate. Please, Dennis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished presidency, distinguished national deputies, Ukrainians, Ukrainians! According to article 85, paragraph 12, of the first article, and article 114, part four, of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to the proposal of the parliamentary faction of the political party "The Servant of the People", which according to article 83, part ten, of the Constitution of Ukraine has the right to coalitions of the parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call, to present the appointment of Kamishin Alexander Mikolaiovich, Minister of Strategic Industries of Ukraine. Please support this candidate, distinguished national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u75	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, a candidate for the Minister for Strategic Industry of Ukraine, Alexander Mikolaiovich Kamishin, is invited to the floor. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich, your speech in three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u76	Good day to you all! I'll finish my work on the railways. During the year of the war, the railway made it clear that we had carried out our entire national mission, helped the business to return to work, and much more that could only be talked about in time. Today I am a candidate for the position of Minister of Strategic Industry. I believe that this is the ministry and the enterprises that are under it to help our country near the day of victory. You and I understand that ammunition, our flagman weapons units are scheduled to work on the front today. And the four key objectives that I see in front of this ministry: this is aid in the production of ammunition; secondly, this is the development of our flagship weapons units, which are going to work during the war, and after the war is going to become a driver of economic recovery; thirdly, they are joint enterprises with production in both Ukraine and abroad; and fourthly, this is the development of BPL and drone production. I'm sure I'll help the ministry become more useful and, of course, after the end of the war, I'm sure the CAP will become an important driver of economic development, but first, the day of victory is approaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u77	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, especially for what you've done in your post at Ukrazalznice. Don't go anywhere, because there will be questions for you. I'm asking you to sign up for a candidate from the Ukrainian National Deputies, and I remind you that it takes up to six minutes. Please, colleagues. Please, Dear Mikolayovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u78	Good afternoon, Mr. President. I'd like to thank you for the work of Crossroads, and we've talked to you in private. In fact, many lives were worked out in a fine way. If I wanted to be a candidate, we talk a lot about what, in fact, there's weapons and ammunition and all that sort of stuff, I'd like you to focus not only on weapons, but also on security. Indeed, to this day the Ukrainian economy, including the light industry, may and may want to provide the entire Ukrainian army and all the defense forces with the necessary things. They need help, primarily communication. I'd like you to pay attention to this direction of the Ministry and perhaps with the Ministry of Economics hasten it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u79	Thank you. I fully agree that security is no less important than combat kits. But first the focus is to help our army win. Then, of course, we need to help develop all industries, all industries, and light industries, one of the important ones where Ukraine has always been competitive, and has to regain its competitiveness after the end of the war, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u80	Please, Ion's Marina Mikolayevna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u81	Good afternoon! Unfortunately, in the last three years, communication with Parliament in this room is not very popular, and some ministers come and go, unfortunately we don't even remember their names, and they don't report to Parliament. So my question is this. First. We're very pleased to hear that you'll be renewing the rocket programs that have been launched since 2016, and we wish you success. But what other priority do you have? And likewise, are you prepared to report to Parliament, to have a dialogue like this with Parliament? Because still showing a dialogue with the people's deputies is openness to society. This is particularly important in terms of war, and it will be the same as cooperation between state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u82	Thank you. I understand the importance of communication with Parliament. Without legislation, without legislative changes, we will not make any reforms. From the point of view of the railway manager, we've always been in a constructive dialogue with our profile transport committee, but half of the hall we also had some form of communication, let's face it. I understand that in order to change the Minstratprom and the businesses that are under it, I'm going to have to ask you for support, and I'm going to have to make laws that will help reform this sector. And without reform, there will be nothing. We need to understand that if we don't get the whole state out there, we're going to produce all the weapons we need to extract. There are private producers, but they also need help, and the sector needs to be reformed. And you'll invite, I'll be glad to report. We had a conversation with all the factions, and everyone understands my politics, my approach to work. I'd be happy to go back to the hall and to the faction and to the committees as soon as I have concrete results and a concrete understanding of what we're doing next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u83	Please, Mikola Mikolaiovich Tishchenko, non-fractional. Please. Thank you. Please, Beggle Mariana, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u84	Thank you. Please pass the word to Dmitri Natalus.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u85	Thank you very much. Indeed, yesterday, Mr. Alexander, had a very constructive relationship with you on the committee. Thank you for your voice. We hope to do the same constructive work. I wanted to take another look at the question of space, and for our committee, it's a very important field. Unfortunately, the previous leadership didn't assign a person to meet the challenges of time, but maybe now I think it's good, because you're going to have more time to get into this area and decide on a further strategy for its development. That's the first story. Another story. I'd like to point out that there's an adequate internal order. But in addition, with regard to expanding the geography of the market of our producers of strategic industry, you also need to pay attention to this. And success, to be honest!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u86	Dmitri Andryovich, thank you. The question of space is a question that, unfortunately, we can't win today's victory the world has shown, more faithfully, that we have shown the world that without proper communication, without proper and work of satellites today's war cannot. I'll take a look at the images that are in the system. We'll look for the head of this agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u87	We still have Chewchenko Eugene, "Resurrection."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u88	Alexander, good afternoon. I heard from you. Alexander, I'm here. Okay, never mind. I heard from you that you're going to help business, industry, and I want to tell you where we have an urgent problem that no one is solving. You've been working at Ukrzalznice, so you know that border crossings like our cargo, that on export, that on import, are on the border of ours and the lines of these multi-kilometres. Please tell me how you're going to solve this question if you're going to answer that question. Because when we talk about strategic problems, that's the most important thing. And we even have a committee head sitting here who has to do this, but he doesn't do anything. Business, all businessmen say the same thing. And the agrarians do that, too. When will we have a normal crossing across the border so that the cars will not stand in line for months, starting with Rennie and ending at the border with Poland? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u89	I understand, because I'm still the railway manager for today, for the moment, you're asking me this question as a railway. I'll answer that. During the war, we allowed more than 30 private companies to develop border crossing complexes of mobile and stationary phones. Today, there is no problem with the trans-shipment of agricultural production on the Ukrainian side. But there is another problem: Europe is not ready to accept our grain in such a volume. Because all of Poland exported 8.3 million tons of grain a year through its ports. And we, as Ukraine, have to export 50 plus millions of tons of grain a year. Thus, unfortunately, our grain in this volume does not travel on the European side. And this is a complex issue that needs to be resolved, not in Ukraine, but in Poland and other neighbouring countries. But what I want to point out is that the railway took the first steps, took the first steps, carried out the business, and first helped all those who wanted to build these blocks to take the issue off the Ukrainian side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u90	Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Question time's up. Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Please take your place. The chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Development, Dmitry Andriyovich Nataluha, is invited to take the floor for the report in two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u91	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we have indeed, at the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefan Ruslan Alexiyovich yesterday, a meeting of the Committee on Economic Development and on March 20, 23rd, of course, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the approval of the decision on the appointment of Mr. Alexander Mikolaiovich Kamishin as Minister for Strategic Industries of Ukraine. For my part, there was a very large number of skepticism and very often justified on the need for this ministry, which, I remind you, our committee had initiated in the early 20th year. I would like to believe that Mr. Kamishin in this post will be able to level and prove in practice the fact that this ministry is not some sort of mundane or untimely, but is one of the main players in the defence and reconstruction of Ukraine, as well as the strengthening of the real economy of Ukraine, both during military action and after the reconstruction of Ukraine after the aggression of the Russian Federation. We will, of course, be helping the committee in every direction. But we would like the first steps of the ministry to be: maximum liberalisation of imports of ingredients and crevices for the production of BPLA in Ukraine, resolution of the problem with DEC, resolution of the issue of defence orders and, of course, adequate reform of the space sector. I'm sure everything will work out. I'm asking you to support the hall. The committee decided to support Mr. Kamishin's candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u92	Thank you, Dmitri Andriyovich. Please sign up for two minutes from the MP factions and groups. Please, "Golos", Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich. Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u93	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. First, I would like to thank Mr. Alexander in the face of all the railways that are going through a very decent war, and, in principle, the entire state of war. In every saved life of civilian, military, all 24/7 work and the way the railways have shown themselves, I think it has proved to me that we have a capable state service of infrastructure, transportation for our citizens, for our state. Thank you for that. I'm asking you very much to hand over to all of your great teams, the whole of the Crucifixion Center, because you're actually still in position there, a huge thank you. That's the first one. The other one. Sadly, we avoid an important bill that discusses the mandatory reporting of ministers before they leave office. Why are we talking about this, because yesterday Paul Ryabikin, who led the actual Ministry of Strategic Industry for a year and a half, did not appear on either the Committee on Economic Affairs or the Committee on Security and Defence. We don't know what happened there, how it worked, and where, in fact, a huge ministry with dual functions, excessive interference with management, and not least about defense orders, we didn't hear exactly anything. So I'm really sorry that we just let each other go in a state of war. What is more, these people are assigned ambassadors to a promised and strategic state for us, particularly China. It's very embarrassing, and it's embarrassing. That's not supposed to happen. And we're just turning ourselves into a non-professional, non-professional approach once again. Mr. Alexander, we wish you success and hope for your reports not only during your next appointment and your resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u94	Thank you. Grand Chief, European Solidarity, Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u95	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u96	Alexei Hotcharenko, please. Are you from the rostrum or from the scene? From the rostrum. Please, Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u97	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, of course, we are discussing a very important question right now, because in that war that's going on, which is actually turning into a war of exhaustion, the issue of the military-industrial complex is crucial. It's a question of victory or defeat. So, of course, Ukraine has to win, it has to win, but to do that, we also have to win on the KPC front. And here, unfortunately, we have very big problems. Ucrobanprom, let's face it, failed to meet his task of providing the Ukrainian army with everything it needed. More than a year of full-scale incursion, we still don't have the production of missiles in proper quantity and quality, nor the production of everything else we need. Everything's been transferred to the shoulder of the blood-interprom. That's what he does, he provides all the necessary Ukrainian troops: cars, drones, anti-drones, all of them, even masked nets. By the way, right now at the entrance of the Odessa District Council of Volunteers from the Goncharenko Center, who were thrown out of the room together by the "Serve of the People" and the Odessa District Council, probably because their last name is in the name, and they're sitting there, they're knitting nets at the entrance to the district council. So today, volunteers are closing down state failures, failing Ucrobronprom. So I'm asking the future VP and the leader, please set up the Ucrobanprom, provide the Ukrainian army with all necessary, work so that our victory is achieved not only on the battlefield, but also through the construction of a powerful modern military-industrial complex. Join the private initiative, because we see that the state can't do it. And finally create a real Ucroborprom, not a real Ucroborprom.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u98	Thank you, Alexia! "Serve of the people," Beugal Marian Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u99	Please pass the word to Dmitry Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u100	Kisilevsky Dmitry Davidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, are we satisfied with the work of the Ministry of Strategic Industry in its two previous reincarnations, let's say? Obviously not. This ministry has not justified the expectations that have been laid upon it, and this is understandable to everyone. The last minister did not even bother to appear on the committee and to communicate with members of the committee, nor did most of his deputies. But the question is, does the country need such a ministry? I think so, it needs to be done, and we need to reload it as soon as possible. This ministry needs to be led in the development of defence manufacturing. This ministry has to form a leadership in the development of the space and rocket industry. And this ministry has to hold leadership on government industrial policy and job security for Ukrainian citizens. I am convinced that Alexander Kamishin, who presided over the Crucifixion, proved himself to be an effective leader. And I hope that in his office in the new ministry, he will be able to organize the work of this ministry just as normally as he had organized a job in the Ukrainian Railway. So I urge everyone to support Mr. Kamishin as Minister of Strategic Industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u102	Thank you, Dmitri Davidovich! Please, Makarenko Mikhailo Vasilovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u103	Dear Chairman, please pass on the word to Koltunovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u104	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u105	Thank you. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, my colleagues already, Mr. Nataluha and Kisilevski, the committee colleagues, have already given a certain tone, they mentioned in general the history of this issue when this initiative arose. At the end of 2019, the then Prime Minister of Honcharuk and Minister of Economy Milovanov presented us with a program of activities for the Cabin. And what did we see in it? And we didn't see the main thing in it, not even mentioning industry. At that time, a question arose, a new program was passed on and an initiative was launched to create a ministry to deal with industrial issues in general. Today we have the Ministry of Strategic Industry. But in my opinion, it has to have a much larger range of powers to close down, that's what Dmitri Davidovich said, to close down the entire spectrum of industrial policy issues. Because we have a long time of deindustrialization, a drop in key industrial output indicators, including last year's, that count there from 70 percent, plus minus, and this mining and metallurgical complex, and so on and so forth. Now, about this ministry. You, Your Honor, have a candidate so far, and said you have four key goals and that's not bad. But there's a much larger range of powers in the Ministry. And I would also ask you to pay attention to airplane construction, this is the fundamental aspect of domestic production in Ukraine. Similarly to the missile-space sector, it's those industries that can make a fairly serious increase in industrial production throughout the country of high-tech sectors, accumulate high employment, high budget revenues. So you should also look at the aircraft building and the space sector, and that will increase the share of high-tech industries in the country's GDP and in general what we discussed in the past will contribute to the technological uplifting of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u106	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u107	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Today, Mr. Kamishin was present at the faction and we had a rather fruitful discussion on what the Ministry of Strategic Industry should look like. First of all, I would like to say that, really at this time, it's incredibly difficult for Ukraine, during the war, your leadership of Ukrazlaznica has shown that Ukrazlaznica can work and perform the important tasks that have been assigned to it to provide logistics, including for the Ukrainian front. What about the Ministry of Strategic Industry? This is the basis for Ukraine, so that we, as a state, can develop our own military-industrial complex. And I hope that this is exactly what your main efforts will be for us to have our own production of artillery shells in the amount needed to defend Ukraine. For Ukraine to develop its own capabilities for drones. And here you, as future minister, should very well combine state functions and state enterprises with the private sector, which today is capable of producing what is needed for Ukraine. You know the position of the Fatherland principle, where we are against the key sectors of the economy being sold out by key enterprises. So don't let the minister sell any of the businesses that are in the military-industrial complex today, but maximize their workload. To do so today for the front and to provide all that is necessary for our victory. Victory will be sure, but when we are strong and capable of providing our own defenses, not just waiting on our external partners. I wish you success in your new position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u108	Shevchenko Eugene Volodymyrovich, "Resurrection." Oh, please. Burmich, please. Invite the deputies into the hall, quickly to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. President! We have heard many performances today and your short talk. And you said in your speech that you have four priorities where you're going to work and you're going to show us good results. There were a lot of questions for you today. But I'd like to hear it in the near future, and I'm thinking not only me, but the whole Ukrainian society and the Council, specifically where you're going to focus, which can be a locomotive in this whole economy that will carry everything behind you, and machine-building, and industry. In particular, make sure that you do not waste your energy and finances for today. For example, maybe it's actually going to be the airline we had, maybe someday we'll see our Ukrainian helicopter, maybe something else. But specifically because if you were to disperse, both here and here, the result would be what we saw in your predecessors. So I'm very much asking that we see in the near future a specific state programme and specific areas that can be a locomotive in our industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u110	Thank you, Anatoly Petrovich. Please, colleagues, take your seats. The discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. According to article 85, part four of article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I put to the vote the entire draft Decree (registration number 9132) on the appointment of Kamishin Alexandr Mikolaiovich as Minister for Strategic Industries of Ukraine. Did they? Please vote. [[11:49:11]] For 312 Decision taken. Welcome to Alexander Mikolaiovich with his assignment. [[Applause]] Show the factions, please. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Minister of Strategic Industry of Ukraine Alexander Mikolaiovich Kamishin is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u111	I, Kamishin Alexander Mikolaiovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the continued democratic development of society. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u112	Heroic glory! Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Welcome to this responsible office! We wish you victory and victory in our country. Please take your place in the government's bed. Sasha, the government's bed is over there. Nothing, get used to it. Dear colleagues, we continue our staff marathon. According to articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to the proposal of the deputy faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which includes most Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has the right to coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the appointment of Lis Oksen Vasilovich as Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. The right materials for the candidate are given to you. Dear colleagues, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed on the next procedure for dealing with the matter. Presentation by the Prime Minister of Ukraine in 2 minutes. Candidate for Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine in 5 minutes. Questions to a candidate from the Ukrainian National Deputies are up to 6 minutes. A report from the committee, up to two minutes. Talks from MP factions and groups for up to 16 minutes. Making a decision. Up to 32 minutes. If there's no objection, let's move on to the question. Is there no objection? None. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. The prime minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to the floor to represent the candidate. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u113	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs, Ukrainians and Ukrainians! According to article 85, paragraph 12, and article 114, part four, of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to the proposal of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which, according to article 83, part ten, of the Constitution of Ukraine, has the right to coalition of the parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call, to submit an application for the appointment of Lisov Oksen Vasilovich as Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. Please support this candidature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u114	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the candidate for the post of Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Oxen Vasilovich Lisovovov, is invited to the floor. Please, in five minutes, Oxen Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u115	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished national deputies! First of all, let me thank you for bringing my track from education, from preschool, from creative education, into this room. From this room I have felt a high level of support for the activities of my institution for many years. And I hope that I will feel the same level of support if you give me the right and give me that role that you're looking at right now. The priorities that I, the team, and society are essentially putting ahead of the Ministry of Education today. First, a set of security questions, answers to the challenges of war. That's what hurts the most today, and in both the hard and the software sense. Our job is to get the kids off the grid. Our job is to provide them with safe education in their schools, kindergartens, higher education. Our job is to provide quality online education where offline is impossible for some reason. Our task is to review the approaches, forms and methods of learning, especially for children who are studying abroad today, and we have about a million children today. For all of this there is a solution, for all of this there are opportunities today. But security issues are not just war-related pains, they're not just bomb shelters and they're not just organizational decisions. This is psychology, a child’s health, and the entire health complex. Because the effects of war on us will be felt for many more decades. And today our decisions can prevent these consequences, make them less sensitive, less meaningful, less problematic for the future. Of course, the primary focus is attention at school. Our job is to change the culture of education in principle, and in school first. To do that, we need to look at the approach to education management, so we need to create conditions for creative free work for teachers. To do that, we need to create a whole range of tools, and first of all tools that will allow them to spend more time on creativity and on working with children and less time on bureaucracy. Digitalization will be one of the priorities, and it will permeate all levels of education and all directions. All the constructive reforms that have been initiated, which need to be analyzed, rethought and reloaded in view of the challenges of today, must be continued. One of the priorities we're going to take is the development of vocational and technical education, the development of vocational colleges. Our job is to send up to 50 percent of young people to vocational education, give them a good quality profession, and this will, of course, require a new approach to professional education. To do that, we're going to have to make a clear distinction between primary school, after which a child, her parents have to make a conscious decision about where we're going next: to get a job or to get an academic education, to get a higher education, and to go on learning. Vocational and technical education is likely, given the expertise we have today, to be scaled up, to be resource-enriched, both internally and externally. Wuz, higher education. We're going to have a problem, whether we want it or not. If we don't start taking measures to improve the quality of higher education right now, we're just going to lose it, it's going to rain itself. So a set of reforms aimed at saving higher education is one of our priorities. And science. Prioritization of scientific research, creation of RnD centers, both academic and university-based. Creating opportunities to bring scientists back from abroad, because we're not just losing kids today, not just our young people leaving, scientists leaving, teachers leaving. This is one of the priorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u116	Thank you, Oxen Vasilovich. Please remain in the rostrum. Please sign up for a question to a candidate from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please log in. Please, "Serve of the People," by the Shepherd of Julius Yuriyovn.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u117	Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, we're very happy that you're the candidate for the Minister of Education and Science. And the next question. Recently created by the Committee on Environmental Policy, a working group on environmental education. We officially sent a letter to the Ministry, and we were given two candidates. Your question is: to update the concept of environmental education in Ukraine, because these are priorities for European integration, for greening the course and the importance of shaping the environmental awareness of children. And the second question. Your vision of supporting and preserving displaced higher education institutions. Good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u118	Thank you. After the war, the energy challenge is the second and environmental challenge in one row. That catastrophe that awaits us, and where I came from, few even realize the complex of problems, the consequences and the length of time we're going to dig up. So young people, the formation of a conscious attitude towards ecology, the preservation of conservation is aimed at all directions towards this, and the strengthening of this work in education is clearly in the highest priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u119	Thank you. "Golos", Ruššin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u120	Please hand over Natalia Pippa.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u121	Please, Natalia Pippa.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u122	I have a question for you, the main two shorts. First, how do you see the combination of two systems when children are learning abroad and in the Ukrainian education system, so that we can keep our children as much as possible and bring them home, is the education issue very important? That's the first one. And secondly, in more detail, I'm doing, especially in the senior classes of the New Ukrainian School of Profiles, do you see real by 2024 that the network is going to be formed and we're going to be fully operational in 2027? And what exactly do you see now, things and resources do we need to run a profile school? Because money is exactly what we're going to need and a change in the teaching system of teachers, approaches and, in principle, the philosophy of senior school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u123	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u124	As I said, all the successful reforms they already have. which are already in place, which are being launched and which need to be supported, we should continue through rethinking and by including the challenges that we have today. Profile school, academics -- the question is open, it's pretty expensive, but we're definitely going this way. As I said before, we graduate from primary school and make informed decisions. In my opinion, we haven't counted the value of this issue yet, but the academic license should be separate from the primary school.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u126	And the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u127	Please, Gurin Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u128	Good afternoon. Welcome to seeing you on the rostrum and hopefully we'll appoint you, Hall. I have two questions: one short one, and here the answer is yes or no, and the other is more complicated. Short of all, is it planned to include a track (shooting) in the compulsory high school program? Yes or no? And the others. It's your position that I'm interested in. And the second question. The international coalition is now developing an urbanist plan for the reconstruction of Mariupol after the depopulation. There are two universities that compete with each other and are not large enough. Here you want to hear your position, that the grouping of universities, and specifically in this case, when we need to rebuild them from scratch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u129	I'm sorry, I didn't hear the first question. Oh, there's a plus. Yes, on the first question, yes. I'm sorry. Short answer, yes. On the second question. Our priority in higher education is quality, it's competitiveness, it's peers that should be the center of innovation, the higher ones should be the center of innovation. So where we're going to get that result together, we're going to merge and we're going to go that way. The main thing is the quality of higher education.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u130	Thank you. Please, Gristuk Roman Pavlovich, "Serve of the people." Scene yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u131	Oxen Vasilovich, welcome. It is a pleasure to finally see the real minister of education in the hall. I hope this hall will support you. I have a question about how you feel about the subject of Ukraine's history, and about the obligation of this subject in a state-wide summary appraisal. Our committee supported a bill that, since 2024, includes the history of Ukraine for all school graduates. Questions. Do you support Ukraine’s history in the DPA as of the following year, and for the applicants this year? They're very concerned about what NMT is going to be. Will you make changes when you are in office, or will you leave behind all that has already been revealed to our intercessors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u132	First question. The history of Ukraine is essential, in principle, for the acquisition of citizenship. Therefore, Ukraine’s history in the DPA should be clear. What's happening to NMT. This year, I'm afraid another change just won't last. So we've already picked this track. If we change, they won't thank us. Although the history of Ukraine should be a priority everywhere, it is a necessary component. And I mentioned the question. So we support this track now, because we just don't have the ability to change it anyway. And Mrs. Natalia, your question. Children abroad, yes, approach to solving the problem of children abroad. There are decisions that lie on the surface: universal subjects can be counted, physics, mathematics, geography, German, Polish, and British. The unique objects for which the state is responsible must be preserved with a view to the form and content, the modernization of the content of learning. That is, Ukrainian language, Ukrainian history, Ukrainian literature is being modernized gradually and is mandatory. Let's leave these subjects and make intergovernmental agreements on the recognition of diplomas for the recognition of school certificates.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u133	Thank you, Oxen Vasilovich. There'll be one more question. But before I ask a question, my fellow dignitaries, distinguished national deputies, there is a foreign minister in Ukraine who visits the Republic of Estonia, Urmas Reinsal. I have the honour to inform you that Mr. Reinsal is in the meeting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. Please welcome the high guest. [[Applause]] Dear Urmas, we highly appreciate the consistent unwavering support of Ukraine’s independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity on the part of our Estonian friends. Thank you, Your Honor. We're moving on. Another question from Elena Kostovna is still following our schedule.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u134	Mr. Oxen, thank you. I'm behind you. We met today. I just promised you there'd be a question. Thank you for your answer regarding the history of Ukraine. This is really important for us, for every Ukrainian citizen responsible. I have a question, going on with this. We have in separate colleges, civil institutions have an object called "national security," which is narrow specialization, it's under 256. I'd like to give you some advice, and I'd really like to take care of it, because. It's with this specialty, because there's no government order in civilian colleges right now, it's only in military colleges. But it's a matter of our own safety and of these professionals that we need very, very much. They are young people who are willing to give up their lives for Ukraine. They're paying money for this now, and instead, I think there should be a government order for these responsible young people. I'm asking you very much to understand, it's just as a tip and think that this is my first MP's call to you, it's going to come to you in writing anyway. Unfortunately, the previous minister was unable to understand the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u135	Thank you. Thank you. Please take your place while you're at it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Education, Science and Innovation, Sergey Valeriyovich Koleboshin, is invited to the floor for the report. Please, Sergey Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u136	Thank you. At the meeting of 21 March 2023, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Schmigal Denis Anatoliyovich, discussed the appointment of Mr. Oxen Vasilovich as Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. According to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, it is submitted in accordance with article 114, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the deputy faction of the political party "Slut of the People", which according to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine has the right to coalition of the deputy factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. After considering the commission of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appointment of Oxen Vasilovich Lisov Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science, Education and Innovation decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a decision on the appointment of the Forestry Oxen Vasilovich Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. I would like to add that if many scholars and academics have had their hope for the last time, now, in support of this hall, we have faith that everything will be fine in education and science. Given that love of education and science and Ukraine is the main part of all those present in this room, I very much hope that Sofia will prevail in Ukraine -- wisdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u137	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. Well, that's the only way the Education Committee can be so philosophical about this. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for the speeches by the MPs and groups. Let me remind you that it takes up to 16 minutes, two minutes to perform. Please. Please, Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u138	May I have a word with Natalie Pippa?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u139	Natalie Pip, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u140	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, I'm actually very happy today because I can actually talk about the future of education and its development, not about criticism, but about support. A lot of people say that opposition is always against you, like grandmother-lords, so if there are good ministers, then opposition is for. I'm going to be a faction of Voice to support Mr. Oxen. We've heard what he wants to do now and at the interview, and we're going to do as much as possible, because we've always been in trouble with education and we've been working on it. That's the first one. Secondly, I hope that criticism and constructive criticism will not have to be used, but, if so, we too are ready to do so. So the most I want is strength, in a good way. And thanks also to Deputy Prime Minister Fedorov for taking on this political element of responsibility, and I believe that every one of us on a foreign trip, when he travels, we can now put a minister who is capable of, will be able, a minister who has vision and foreign partners, especially those who do not support us with weapons, almost always ready to support education. Talk about the things we need, starting with the bomb shelters and ending with textbooks that are still out of the 5th grade, only for this sixth year is budgeted. These things we can do together. We are heard in the world and, as you can see, our education is appreciated, we have very good children often have knowledge, but few personal skills, what they call competences, now we have a chance to bring the minister into action. And thank you all for your cooperation, and every contribution to education, not hindering. Support the creation and innovation that this minister radiates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u141	Please, Greenchuk Oksana Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u142	Please pass the word to Roman Gristuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u143	Please, Roman Gristuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! When we talk to you about the future of Ukraine, we have talk about education. When we talk to you about returning our people from abroad and reintegrating occupied territories, we need to talk about education. When we talk about protecting Ukraine, we have to talk about education, because the protection of the country starts in the head, it starts with an education system. And what Ukraine will be like in 10 years depends on what educational decisions we make today. I hope we'll make the right decision today and support Mr. Oxen. Because we have big problems in education: two years of COVID, a year of full-scale aggression, huge educational losses, ruined schools, universities, a large number of children abroad. This is a difficult situation. But the more difficult the situation is, the more radical and decisive the response must be. Oxen Vasilovich, we are waiting for radical and decisive action. We have to stop imitating education, imitating science. Teachers should teach, university teachers should teach, scientists should teach science, not fill out papers, reports, and no one needs plates. All of this needs to be cleaned up, let them do their job. Dissertation should be scientific, not just a line in the card and a wage supplement, it should be science, not imitation. As for higher education, the respectable colleagues, which innovation we're talking about in higher education, when the only innovation that managers can offer is that it's innovative to call a higher education facility so that the chancellor can apply for a third time. We have to stop these disgraceful phenomena and say good - bye to everyone who's been sitting in chairs for 30 years. Oxen Vasilovich, our support, take decisive action, take radical action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u145	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuryovich, MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u146	Dear Sir, dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u147	For a second, for a second, for respectable colleagues, for honorary colleagues and a candidate for the post of minister, I would like you to listen to factions and groups, and all the other questions I think you can decide after these deputies vote. Let's see how they vote. Take your place behind the rostrum so that we do not have any questions related to proper observance of the Rules. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Candidate! The "Trust" MP is very responsible for today's issue, and we've always talked about it, and we confirm that the issues of education and science are a priority for our state. And we're talking about today, you have some experience, it's very important that you've been a part of the fighting and you can now be more realistic, let's say, to match the desires of our system and the possibilities for its implementation. So we'd like to pay attention. First. The new Ukrainian school, concept, and its basic positions today need some adjustment. We're interested in your position, the position of the Ministry, could there be any change, or should we continue this state course? That's question number one. The other one. We stress that the implementation of any reforms in the field of education is directly linked to the self - sufficiency of the territorial communities today. So you have to look at this, look at the issues of state subsidies, because small territorial communities today, unfortunately, don't have a complete set of opportunities to provide quality education. Well, of course, the question of raising the social status of a teacher. Today's loving reforms without giving our teacher a decent salary teacher, let's stress, in his place in society, that further development of reforms will depend solely on it. We wish you success!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u149	Thank you. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please, "Platform for Life and Peace." Who's from Platform?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u150	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please pass the word to Alexander Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u151	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u152	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, the honourable candidate for the minister's office has focused attention on the problems in education, we certainly support. But right now I'd like to pay attention to the troublesome things you're going to have to take into account. Well, first of all, science focus, it's funding scientific activity. For two to four years of this convening, I've been paying attention to the fact that we have a critical underfunding from the state budget for scientific activities, the scientific research institutions. What did it lead to? We saw, for example, the Institute of Nuclear Studies of the National Academy of Sciences, which worked three working days a week or on vacation for a month. It's not supposed to be in a normal, civilized country, we have to finance science. This time. One second. So in this context, what other derivatives and problems do we have? It's a drain of scientific footage. We have a minimum wage for the 1st tariff grade that doesn't allow basic human needs to be met. Of course, at this cost, a person will not work in domestic science and go abroad. Hence, a review of the financial security of scientific activities and scientific personnel. The next moment is what was already after education, but it may not have sounded in this room as a decentralization, when in the so-called educational districts you have a large, unification and a corresponding closure of certain educational institutions. Also, look at this model, which is unacceptable, because children are coming to school, especially in rural areas, and we hear it, complain to this day. Next, the last moment I'd like to draw attention to is, of course, a review of the financial parameters: the budgetary declaration, the draft State Budget. Today, we are looking at a deficit rate of 1.7 trillion dollars. We understand that we have a deficit, a deep deficit budget, but look at it and provide the country's budget with a decent scientific life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u153	Please, Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, Mr. Oxene, the MP Group "For the Future" will support your candidacy as Minister of Education, but I would like to say immediately that there are a few questions for us. The first question is vocational education. And it's very symbolic that you're in this bed with your colleagues in Estonia today. And the reforms that the Estonians offered in vocational education are exemplary for us. We have a number of joint educational projects with our Estonian colleagues. I would ask that the prototype we chose in Estonia, as a vocational education, in Germany and in other countries of Europe, be extended to you. And I very much ask that you promise us, at the request of the Education Act, when the law is to be passed, you will now be the first to adopt, with our help, the Vocational Education Act. That's the first one. The other one. I would ask that there be higher education in the focus of your work, because it's both science and innovation, and it's progress in society. We think it's impossible when a teacher of higher education, a professor of science, has a salary of 10,000 dollars. So let's say that this is lower than all of the indicators. So please effectively, rationally and carefully modernize higher education. And three: New Ukrainian school. Without investment in junior school and secondary school, we're not going to have the right development of society. So we wish you success, we wish you to be the minister who will be duly recorded in the history of Ukrainian education and science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u155	Please, Majeschovich Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u156	Please give the word to Volodymyr Váterovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u157	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u158	Dear Oxene Vasilovich, you have every chance of becoming better than your predecessor. First, because of the environment you've been growing up in. He had the privilege of knowing your family, your father, and personally knowing and knowing as a historian this man, who really did a great deal to make Ukraine independent. Secondly, obviously, your direct involvement in the war with the Russian Federation is an indicator of your very good values. And thirdly, that's actually to be better than your predecessor, you just have to be a little better than Scarlett. And that means not returning tobacco to the Ministry of Education, which means not trying to destroy the KNZ, which means not to interfere with university autonomy, as your predecessor did, trying to appoint or disagree with the appointment of Rector Kyiv-Mogilian. This means disrespecting history, not understanding its meaning, and, as Mr. Scarlett said, that history is enough to lead to a home study. So I'm sure you can do your best not to repeat the mistakes your predecessor made. I very much hope for your serious attention to humanitarian education: humanitarian education, which is an extremely important tool for the formation of civic consciousness in a country that is at war; humanitarian education, which is an important tool for the formation of civic consciousness in a war for the identity that we now have. I understand that this is an enormous responsibility for you, because education is really a tool for shaping the future. So our victory depends not only on the Ministry of Defence but also on the Ministry of Education. And even more so will your responsibility after our victory, because to form a society after victory, that will be the main task of the Ministry of Education. Happy birthday to you!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u159	The word is given to the national deputy Lukashev Alexandr Anatoliyovich, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u160	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, at last we were waiting for the entire session hall to be joined not only by the support of the candidate for the Ministry of Education and Science, but by the key issues of education and Ukrainian science. There are indeed many challenges facing education and science today. First of all, we have a broken education infrastructure as a result of the war. Secondly, we have hundreds of thousands of schoolchildren and students who are forced to leave Ukraine and teach abroad and dream of returning to their homeland. Next, we need to use this moment not only to extinguish fires, we need to do everything we can to form a solid foundation for turning Ukraine into a powerful European educational hub. And I hope that Mr. Lisov will be able to do that, because for many years he has proved brilliantly to be the head of the Small Academy of Sciences, that this structure leads to the fact that Ukrainian schoolchildren have won dozens of gold medals at the world Olympics. And this is really an example of turning the National Academy of Sciences, which has become such a reserve of grantocracy, which eats up government funding in vain, into a locomotive for technological innovation and innovation in Ukraine. The Ukrainian Liberation Group will support Oxen Lisov's candidacy as Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u161	Please make the final statement: Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich, "The Fatherland" faction. And then let's move on to the decision-making process, please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u162	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished government representatives and respectable Oxene Vasilovich! After all, the teacher was original. And today it is not uncommon for such attention to be given to the appointment of a minister of education both in the session hall and in the entire Ukrainian society. Oxen Vasilovich met with the "Fatherland" faction today to provide comprehensive answers to all the questions that we were concerned about, and in principle, for most of them, our positions coincide. But before you as the new leadership of the Ministry of Education, there will be new challenges, and we want you to share with the Supreme Council as the legislative body with them. Because indeed, since January 1, this year, the Cabinet of Ministers has suspended the decision that allowed teachers to raise their wages, even though in war conditions we all understand that. It's very important that after vocational education, the decision is finally finalised, that vocational education is the priority of the state, not just local self-government. It is very important to take care of the millions of children who are now being trained outside our country, so that, as our Polish neighbours have done, our children will also learn Ukrainian, and the authorities together, including the Ministry of Education, will take care of how to create conditions for them to return here as quickly as possible. We're going to vote in favour of the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies, please prepare. According to article 85, part four of article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I put to the vote the entire draft Decree, registration number 9133, on the appointment of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:29:31]] For 313 Decision taken. Hello, Oxen Vasilovich. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Oxen Vasilovich Lisov, is invited to make an oath on the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u164	I, Lise Oxen Vasilovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, a permanent, democratic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. Let's go, let's go. We have the next question. This is the second reading, a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving national regulation in the field of fish farming. Oh, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, we haven't entered yet. I haven't been able to read the title of the law, so there's a break with the replacement for the speech. I'm giving Arsen the Pushkin three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u166	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The distinguished Minister of Foreign Affairs of Estonia, Urmas Reinsal, Ambassador, honourable colleagues, dear Ukrainians, without exaggeration Estonia has become one of the leaders of Ukraine's support, and in proportion to its GDP, this country supports us most. This also applies to political decisions on all international sites. This includes military issues, humanitarian issues, and reconstruction. You know that Estonia is the first country since the Supreme Council of Ukraine to recognize Russia's actions as genocide in Ukraine. And today this road is almost a year away and we have an international warrant for the arrest of a war criminal named Putin. Estonia itself, without waiting for a large - scale invasion, as some countries had forgiven us, was already handing over arms by February 24. And the first weeks of this weaponry, just like our Latvian, Lithuanian, Polish, British friends, have played a key role in the fights, especially in our capital. The Minister has literally returned today from yesterday's meeting of EU foreign ministers, where Estonia's initiative to provide Ukraine with an additional 1 million weapons of 155 caliber for our Armed Forces has been approved. [[Applause]] It is Urmas Reinsal who has taken the initiative to ban the entry of Russians into the EU, and it is Estonia and Urmas who have initiated and succeeded. As long as some Russians are killing us here at home, others should not be tourists – this is Estonia's position. Therefore, I, my distinguished colleagues, am glad that I have the opportunity and the honour to lead an inter-parliamentary group of cooperation with Estonia. Because when we were in our numerous meetings here in Ukraine and Estonia with Mr. Korneyenk, we never asked for anything in Estonia. Estonia always tells us at all levels, at all the meetings: What more dear Ukrainians need, the road of Ukraine for your victory? And in reconstruction, my friends, because we're talking a lot about the return of Ukrainians, we've talked to the education minister about how our children are going to return, how our children are going to ensure their learning, and I want to point out that in early July last year, along with Urmas Reinsal and Olena Schuljak, we put the capsule under the first facility to rebuild the nursery in Ovruk. And on June 1, this first building, the children’s garden in Ovruč, will be opened by Estonia, for financing Estonia. Thank you, Estonia!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u167	Yes, dear colleagues, let us once again thank the honourable Urmas for everything and Estonia for everything they have done for Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, and let us thank the Prime Minister and members of the newly appointed Government for their participation in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With God, boys! Good luck! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, here we go, next bill, I'll finish. We turn to question 7616 – this is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on improving national regulation in the field of fisheries, conservation and rational use of water resources and aquaculture. We're going to have some amendments here and then we're going to vote. Do I get it right? Is there a pussichuk? Please, Puziczuk Andry, call the amendment number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u168	Thank you, Your Honor! I would like to start by thanking the head of the agrarian committee, the head of the Committee on Ecology, Julia Ovečinnikov, for working on this bill. Dear colleagues, my amendments relate to the rule-exclusion, the bill is a norm where unlimited fishing is allowed. That is, a kind of bioresource that is not limited to the fact that the level of catch that threatens their condition cannot be reached. So my revisions are 28, 36, 40, 43, 45, 48, 61, 63, 65, 67, 69, 71, 73, 75, 83, they predict, they are all related and only apply to one, to exclude unlimited fishing from the bill. And this is also an agreed position with the head of the faction with David Arahamaiah. Dear Chief, I ask you to give David the word of Arachamaia to confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u169	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u170	You know, I want to point out that this bill is really very complicated and reformative. Our committee and I worked on it long enough, there was a lot of resistance, there was a lot of opposition. But now everyone realizes that this is a very cool reform, and it needs a field, and it's supported. Thanks to a government experiment, we have very good results. Thus, on March 20, 2023, 255 auctions were already held and 11 million dollars were paid in local budgets. By comparison, last year’s payment for industrial fishing was less than 10 million dollars. So we're just moving forward, that's just the beginning. So I ask my colleagues to support the rights of our colleague Puzichuk Andrija Viktorovich in order to adopt this bill and this reform has begun to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u171	Since he was named Arahami, he asks for one minute on the line. And yet, dear fellows, after David's reprimand, we vote, I understand, there is a will to uphold these amendments and then we vote immediately on the law as a whole, taking into account what will be in the committee's decision, I'll give you my word. David Georgievich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u172	Colleagues, please support Mr. Puziyczuk with 17 amendments and for the 18th time vote on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, then I will make some adjustments in turn, please prepare. Amendment number seven, author of Puzichuk. There is such a likelihood that it will be supported. I'll bet you 7 adjustments. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:39:21]] For 276 Decision taken. Next amendment number 16, authored by Puziczuk. People's deputies please vote for the 16th amendment. [[12:39:47]] For 298 Decision taken. Next amendment to the 28th People's Deputy Puziyczuk. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:40:08]] For 301 Decision taken. Next amendment 36, People's Deputy Puziyczuk. Please vote. [[12:40:31]] For-300 Decision taken. Next amendment is 40, Puzichuk's national deputy. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:40:53]] For-300 Decision taken. Next amendment 43, Puzichuk People's Deputy. Please vote. [[12:41:14]] For 299 Decision taken. Next amendment 45, People's Deputy Puziyczuk. [[12:41:37]] For 302 Decision taken. Next amendment 48, People's Deputy Puziyczuk. Please vote. [[12:41:58]] For 297 Decision taken. Next amendment 61, People's Deputy Puziyczuk. Please vote. [[12:42:20]] For 293 Decision taken. Next amendment is 63 Puzichuk People's Deputy. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:42:41]] For 290 Decision taken. Next amendment to 65 of Puziyczuk’s National Deputy. Please vote. [[12:43:02]] For 298 Decision taken. Next amendment to the 67th People's Deputy Puziychuk. Please vote. [[12:43:24]] For 295 Decision taken. Next amendment to the 69th People's Deputy Puziychuk. Please vote. [[12:43:45]] For 294 Decision taken. Next amendment to 71 of the Puzijchuk People's Deputies. Please vote. [[12:44:05]] For 294 Decision taken. Next amendment to 73 of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. Please vote. [[12:44:26]] For 297 Decision taken. Next amendment to the 75th Puzichuk People's Deputy. Please vote. [[12:44:46]] For-300 And as far as I can tell, the final amendment, right, Mr. Andrey? 83rd is the People's Deputy of Puziychuk. 83 amendments, it's final. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:45:12]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, before I go to the final vote, I give the floor to Alexander Vasilovich Hayde. He's going to take a look at the final decision of the committee and we're going to vote on the bill, taking into account it and the amendments that we've supported. Please, Alexander Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u174	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Paragraph 3, paragraph 1, of Section II of the bill 'The Final and Transitional Positions' states that paragraph 31, paragraph 6, of Section 6 of the bill shall take effect no later than April 1, 2023. However, according to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the law passed by Parliament must be drafted and directed towards the signature of the President of Ukraine within 10 days. The President of Ukraine also has the right, under the Constitution of Ukraine, to sign the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 15 days. In connection with this proposal, clarify the date of entry into force of section I, paragraph 6, of this Law, by providing for the validity of this subparagraph no later than May 1, 2023. There is a proposal for the adoption of Bill 7616 in the second reading and in general, taking into account the results of its consideration by Parliament and the Committee's proposals, in particular with regard to the taking up of the validity of Section I, subsection 31, paragraph 6, of this Act, in Chapter I, "The Final and Transitional Positions", and to entrust the Committee, together with the General Legal Directorate, with the task of carrying out technical and legal drafting of this Act. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u175	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone understands. I therefore propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general, with regard to the proposals of the committee, in particular with regard to the taking into account of paragraph 31 of section I, paragraph 6, of the Act, in chapter III, “Final and transitional situations”, and with the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the improvement of national regulation in the field of fisheries, conservation and rational use of water resources and the area of aquaculture (registration No. 7616). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:47:34]] For 271 Decision taken. Congratulations, fellows! Brainy, please. Out of procedure, I understand? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, we have the following two bills, they are, in a mild sense, specific because we took businesses and placed them in public institutions such as the Mini-Defense. But we didn't exactly do that in order for the managers of these companies to get 3 million and 2 million dollars of wages. So I think it's worth taking them off at all, and I'm going to take the lead. But if they do go into the first one, I would like to ask David Georgiyovitch of Arahamaia to have both conscience and political will to correct this inadequacy to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u177	One second, my friends, we have this law to discuss. Why are we starting this now? Wait a second, no, we can't start discussing the law before entering the law. Please, Hero. By procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u178	Dear Mr. Head, if we speak according to procedure, then by procedure. I want to remind you that since April 1st, the Media Act has come into force, and so far, we still have the issue of highlighting the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so many of our electorates don't even realize that the Supreme Council is working, especially as constructively as today, when the constitutional majority have supported new ministers, and our faction that doesn't take over, for example, on human resources commitments, at the same time, we're willing to cooperate with these ministers. I propose that we put to the vote today's plenary session in the "Race" network on the marathon. It's very important for Ukrainian voters to know that we have three new ministers, what they were talking about, what questions they had. Because it's about key sectors, it's the industrial sector, it's our dijitalization, it's the education sector. And amazing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u179	I'm putting Irina Volodymyrna's proposal to a vote, no comment. I'd like you to vote for the National People's Deputies. I'll give you another word, let's vote. [[12:50:15.]] For 131 The decision is not taken. David Georgievich, right of reply. You've got everybody talking about you right now. Please, David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u180	Thank you. I want to reflect on Mr. Razumkov's replica. We are really concerned about the fact that such strategic enterprises, this right decision, have been transferred to the Ministry of Defence. But the wrong decision, in our view, is that if they have such a difficult situation, businesses themselves, they don't pay their wages, they don't pay their part-time work schedule, but management pays too high wages, both in the Sichi Motor and in the Ukrnafta. So we're going to correct this between first and second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, if we've discussed these two bills, maybe we should vote on them immediately. No, no. Then let's follow procedure. Dear colleagues, please, let's move on. Jonah, please, what procedure do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u182	Dear Mr. Head, to be honest, it's a shame that 161 votes. Let's do this again, because we've just talked to you about openness, accessibility, trust -- and we can't show three new ministers who care about education, defense and dijitalization, the main priorities of our country? Let's still finish this process, but in a democratic way.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u183	Maria Mikolayevna, thank you. Maria Mikolayevna, look, we agreed with you if you rephrase this proposal to show only the appointment of these ministers, I think maybe it's another proposal, she'll find a deviation in the hall. You're making such an offer, aren't you? Dear colleagues, this is Mrs. Jonah's proposal: not all meetings, that is, the question of choosing, assigning and discussing ministers' candidates to show in the slot. Am I doing the right thing? Am I doing the right thing? Please vote in favour of this procedure. [[12:52:24]] For 207 The decision is not taken. So let's move on, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] Irina Volodymyrna, look. Moving on, moving on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Olena Kostvena is still here. This will be final today. It's just that we can make a lot of these proposals if there's no potential in the room. Please, Olena Kostvena.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u184	I think there's potential in the hall, so it can be demonstrated now. Let's do it again. We just want to make sure that in the "Council" channel slot, our information marathon shows the visibility of the Supreme Council's work, namely: the selection of fully worthy, deserving people in this room, in our parliament. Let's vote on that. Once again, I'm making this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u185	We'll try it one last time. Dear colleagues, I'm putting Helen Kostovna's proposal to the vote. Please vote. [[12:53:35]] For 207 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u186	Strange people, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u187	Olena Kostvena, even though we are. Yeah, next bill 8312. This is a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws to improve the legal regulation of matters related to the implementation of the legal regime of martial law. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:54:16]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed, it looks like two minutes of European Solidarity and we're voting, that's all. Yeah? Am I stressing our agreements correctly? Two minutes from "European Solidarity," and we immediately vote on this bill. Ivanna Orestovna, please. Please don't split up, because we're going to the vote right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, the really legal regime of martial law has shown a number of problems that need to be addressed. It's urgent that you have to decide. And it's definitely not about transferring corporate property rights to the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine. Today, we need to decide on the additional training of our territorial defense fighters, who today, in the ranks of the Armed Forces, are proud to protect and protect our country. And that's why we insist that Bill 9006 of European Solidarity, which envisions the establishment of centres of training centres, be put to the vote. Regrettably, the rule of law states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided to hide from the people at all. But at the same time, and this is what we've just seen in your vote, and at the same time we're seeing a new proposal for an additional 200 million dollars for what? On the Russian-speaking TV "FreeDom." Colleagues, we need to decide on the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, not to hide our heads in the sand and disgracefully not to show our citizens what is happening in the Supreme Council and how it works. Well, third. You know, unfortunately, we have some problem with democratic control over the military. over the military sector of Ukraine today. But we also have an intervention in the political leadership of the country in the appointment of military personnel. And I'm ashamed, I hope you're just as ashamed of being downgraded as you are of the ability of our worthy defenders to speak openly to the Western press if we need our Armed Forces. We need to pay attention to our needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the legal regulation of matters related to the implementation of the legal regime of the state of war (registration number 8312). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:57:29]] For 254 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8312. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:57:56]] For 247 Decision taken. Next bill 8316. We agreed on two minutes of the Fatherland faction, and we're voting right now. Please, who's from Homeland Law 8316? Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u190	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I want to say a few words about this bill. Because this isn't just about three million questions. Here, you know, it reminds me of a story like this from my youth when there was a very fashionable trend like this, a saying: we want everything to be there, and we don't want anything to do with it. This bill is about the same thing. I mean, we're doing something, we're doing something with someone under some kind of misunderstood procedure, but the main thing is not to let court proceedings go, and then nobody gets hurt. And two years from now, when we apply a little bit to these businesses, everything like it's always going to be covered from the budget. First of all, I'm calling your attention, colleagues, to the conclusion of the legal, scientific and scientific department. Well, I'm sorry, but he's totally breaking this bill, and it's just embarrassing to vote for him, because you can't ban court proceedings. There is no such thing as a shadow mechanism that essentially takes away the right to operate critical infrastructure, and then there is absolutely nothing to be held accountable for. I don't know if you're gonna push this bill or not. I agree that the state really has to control what's going on in critical infrastructure, but not in this way. And last of all, that which he spoke to his fellow men of understanding. Cronaft, let's call things our names, because of something the Minobrans gave it away, they appointed some supervisory board, they appointed some director from a commercial structure. 3.2 million dollars a month is $1 million a year, which is exactly what he didn't make in business. And the first thing he did was sell 25 percent of the gas down 46 million. Here are the results of your laws. We don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, we are preparing to make a decision. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Critical Infrastructure Act (registration number 8316) in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:01:12]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill we have is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023 on security and defence spending (registration No. 9105) and an alternative to it 9105-1. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:01:53]] For 251 Decision taken. I invite you to speak with the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Mr. Marcenk Sergey Mihajlovich. Please, Sergey Mikhailovich. By the way, I want to inform you that yesterday we had a very fruitful meeting at the level of Parliament's leadership, factions and groups under this bill, and I want to thank Sergey Mikhailovich, the military, who were present and all the factions and groups, I think we have found a compromise. Sergei Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u192	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich! Dear Ruslane Alexiyovich, distinguished national deputies, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the State Budget for 2023 to provide security and defence sector expenditure. The bill was drafted by the Government with the aim of carrying out urgent measures aimed at countering the armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. There is an increase in government budget expenditure of 537 billion dollars, including for the security and defence sector of 518 billion dollars, of which 477 billion dollars is the payment of bills, specialized equipment and equipment of 30 billion dollars, and other expenses of 11 billion dollars. In particular, the Ministry of Defence is 372 billion dollars, the Ministry of Defense is 98 billion dollars, the State Administration is 31.6 billion dollars, the Security Service is 9 billion dollars, the Ministry of Defence is 4.6 billion dollars, the State Security Authority is 900 million dollars, the External Intelligence Service is 800 million dollars. The reserve fund is set at 19 billion dollars. In part of the income, the sources of the expenditure covered are 61 billion dollars due to the arrival of VAT of 36.5 billion dollars, dividends from government banks for 19 billion dollars. In addition, funding for the General Fund of the State Budget is expected to increase by 419 billion dollars, including an increase in the borrowing of an external 181 billion dollars, an internal 271 billion dollars. Thanks to the proposed budget changes, the total security and boron sector will amount to 1 trillion 670 billion dollars, representing 26.6 percent of gross domestic product. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u193	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich! The word is given to the author of the alternative bill Dmitry Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u194	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich! Dear colleagues, a really important law, has to be voted for, 518 billion in increase in our security and defence sector. However, the bill proposed by our "Smart Politics" team is better. It provides an opportunity to pay back 30,000 of the payments to military personnel who were taken from February 1st. That is, specific amounts will be directed at specific needs. I'm sure there aren't any deputies in this room who haven't been approached by our military personnel both in the back and on the front where they took 30,000. There's a lot to discuss right now, it's the right decision, it's wrong, because there's not enough money for everyone. But when we talk about 3.2 million wages in Ukrnafta, that's enough, and the military isn't enough. It's not even about money, it's about motivation. On the contrary, we need to increase and encourage at the level of how mobilization is happening today rather than take away what we promised at the beginning of the war and what we gave at the beginning of the war. No one said you'd fight for a year, and then we'll take that away from you. I would like to remind everyone that these people are the ones who allow us to work in and out of Parliament, and they deserve a decent salary. And besides these 518 billion, we're offering extra revenue to the state budget. Remove three hundred million dollars a month, half a million, by 600,000. I think you can stretch your seatbelts a little bit, because the army is stretching these belts, and someone's got pockets. I very much ask you to support our alternate bill, it's really the best in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u195	Please, let the co-reporter be invited to the podlas of Rocsolán Andriyovn, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The committee considered both bills at its meeting and, as a result of the first reading, recommended the adoption of Bill No. 9105 as a law, taking into account such proposals by the committee. To supplement section II of the bill with a new paragraph of the following content: "To establish that the funds provided by this law in part of the increase in the expenditure of the State budget for 2023 under the budget programme "Reserve Fund" – Code 3511030 may be directed towards the payment of one-off cash assistance to families of deceased military personnel, members of the military and primary staff, police officers who, in the course of the state of war, are given the right to receive such payments by law, at least 3 billion dollars in total, and to build fortification facilities, at a total of not less than 2 billion dollars." I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in such an editorial manner, all factions at the meeting of the Committee of Budgets supported the draft Law 9105 as a whole. So I'm asking you to support the hall as well. This will allow the funds needed to purchase special equipment, such as drones, to be allocated this month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two in favor, two in favor. And then we go to the vote for this very important bill. Let's write it down: two in a row, two in a row. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u198	Dear Mr. Head, may I have a word with Nina Jujanini? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u199	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! Dear Minister of Finance, I am asking such a question. You're in the hall, everyone who's here, you've heard that there's going to be a change in the pay system and there's going to be changes to Decree 168? No, you didn't. The changes took place in January. But all the MPs became enemies of all the military because all the arrows flew toward the national MPs, that it was as if we had cancelled the payoff. Was it necessary to inform the MPs that the military system would change altogether? Well, of course you do. We're supposed to talk to you, let's do some closed sessions, but this can't be happening behind closed doors. Indeed, when the factions and groups met with the ministers yesterday, they talked about what approaches the military see that they are protecting the system, more or less everything is in place. But, excuse me, once again, there is no information policy and you don't go out to the military, they all say that command has closed behind its doors and doesn't explain to the military what's going to happen. After all, they're all waiting for 30 grand to come back. That's the first one. And the second. Please tell me, now that we're talking about additional security and defence services. That's very good. But don't forget about what? And here's a question. Did we use all our own resources to find a defense resource? No, Mr. Sergei, we don't use all our resources. And the bill of Law 9006, from which you're going to leave, for free, should continue this discussion in the hall and, in fact, remove the unpriority costs and channel the funds where you need to live, not live all the time at the expense of the increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u201	Please, National Deputy Cabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich, the Voice faction. After that, Makarenko and then Pasic Alexander, and then we go to the vote. Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, with regard to the bill, of course, our faction and we personally support it, need to increase funding for the army, for the IMF, and for other areas related to the defense of the state. But here I want to pay attention to another thing, we're going to see that there's going to be a lot of votes on the board, all the factions support it. And I think the key reason for this unity is that military leadership, the leadership of the force organs, has set up a dialogue with the people's deputies and the Supreme Council. There was a meeting yesterday with the factions' heads. We had a committee meeting yesterday, where everyone came, clearly, explained, where, where, where. We have more than half of the national deputies on the committee asked questions that were answered by 90 percent. This is an example of how dialogue helps us to understand better as the Supreme Council for which we vote, and it also helps military leadership to make the decisions they need to make faster, faster and more without questions. So I'm just saying that let's keep this dialogue going so that our help as the Supreme Council is, let's say, faster and more constructive. Thank you, colleagues. I urge you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u203	Thank you. Please, Makarenko Mikhailo Vasilovich, MP's "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u204	Mr. Chairman, please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u205	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u206	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, our group supports the budget changes that are being proposed, including plus 372 billion dollars, to the Ministry of Defense. And we're ready to support an alternative bill that goes there, the difference is that it's only about the sounding of the wage standard. Both of us are willing to support and vote. Given that we're not being shown, I'm going to give you macro-economic indicators, because you're actually. We've put together a new budget and it's changed. a whole new picture. Because at incomes of 1.4 trillion dollars, we have 3.1 trillion dollars of expenses. The limit of deficit is 1.7 trillion dollars in expenses. Well, these numbers are clear to us -- we have a state of war. Although it was a similar painting and an architect of budgetary indicators, it was also in 2019, in 2020, in 2021 and in 2022, only we had this amount of borrowing and deficit. Now look at what I want to pay attention to and why we've always said: let's restructure our debts and pay them off. Why? Because if I said we're giving 372 billion dollars to the Mini-Defense, we're going to have $447 billion in debt this year. That's why we don't meet these costs: we're giving up these costs, including inside and outside creditors, instead of covering those critical expenses that are inside the country. Another important point that I want to pay attention to. 2.1 trillion dollars of borrowing, 1.8 dollars of borrowing. It's at expenditure, more specifically, at income of 1.4 and expenditure of 3.1. This is more than half, even nearly 60 percent, of the government budget. And that's the result of that economic policy that we talked about. Well, I can't help but notice what my fellow intellectual said: income asymmetry. She is, on the one hand, she is.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u207	Please, Pasic Alexander Stanislavovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People." Anyone else, dear colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u208	Dear Head, honourable national MPs, Bill 9105 is overwhelming, because its acceptance will further enable us to allocate more than 518 billion dollars to our security and defence forces. This is a priority for all of us and for the state, because the most important thing right now is our victory. On the Committee on Budget Affairs, we have considered this urgent issue with the participation of Defence Minister Alexi Resnickov and Finance Minister Sergey Marchenk, and have decided to invite the Supreme Council to accept this bill as a basis and as a whole. Please support the government bill itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u209	Thank you. I mean, I've known it since. Black, huh? Please. Oh, no, no, not Black-- it's freezing, isn't it? Ice cream, please. People's Deputy Frost. Dear colleagues, after this performance, we vote. People's deputies please take their seats, this is a very important bill. Please, People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that the protection of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, economic and information security are the most important functions of the State, the affairs of the entire Ukrainian people. The defense of Ukraine, the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity rely on the Armed Forces of Ukraine. These standards are the best answer to why we go back to the question of financing the defence, the security sector. The current budget for this year has already provided $1 trillion,141 billion or 18.2 billion of GDP. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is a reliable supporter of our defenders in all departments. That's why we're going to make an extra 518 billion dollars. I emphasize that most of these costs will be paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I ask the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. Please, Your Honor, don't make us run fast. Please take your seats. There is an agreement and there is an agreement expressed on the Conciliation Council on the basis and in general. I'm betting on these proposals. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023 on the provision of security and defence sector expenditure (registration number of Bill 9105). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:18:46]] For 322 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Next offer. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2023 on security and defence sector expenditure (registration No. 9105) which takes into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:19:30.]] For 325 The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Who? Kubi Stepan Ivanovich raised his hand. Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, I'm still handing over Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u212	Stepan Ivanovich Kubi from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u213	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the issue of security and defence is a major factor in preserving statehood and defeating Moscow in today's national-liberal war. Secondly, we have shown unity and victory, that we support both the army and the military formations. I would like to propose this question to the presiding officer to present this issue in full with the presentations in "The One News." This will strengthen the relationship, strengthen the work of the Supreme Council, and demonstrate unity. Thank you. It will explain to people that the Supreme Council is an effective body, the Supreme Council, where there are true numbers, where there are true rules of the game, it can unite and win. This will speed up the victory today in the national-liberal war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u214	What should be put to the vote? Okay. I'm putting Stepan Ivanovich Kubi's proposal to the vote. Just like she said. Please vote. [[13:21:16]] For-183 The decision is not taken. Who, Arahamiah? You? Okay. Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko out of procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we have allocated hundreds of millions of dollars to you to explain the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the budget of the Supreme Council. And, in fact, the military needs to hear first of all today that we've increased the country's budget to the security and defence sector. So the proposal that we have just discussed with the leader of the David Arahamai "Serve of the People" faction is that today, in the "Radah" network, a discussion on the budget is to be presented in the marathon and our voters will hear that the Supreme Council is working. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kornienko, we ask you to put to the vote now the next question that we will have a budget discussion in the Council network today and that all voters will be able to see.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u216	Thank you. David Georgievich Arahami, there was your last name mentioned again, will you answer the line? The replica. You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u217	Colleagues, I remind you, we passed the Media Act. This is a very good law, which was one of the laws that moves us to candidate status in the EU. Since April 1, that is, in the next session, there will be a broadcast, as we agreed, as we settled the law. As for today, I think it is appropriate to show the appointment of ministers and the adoption of the budget. I think so, but this is the decision of the hall, because this is actually the last session without a broadcast, because whatever we decide, we'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u218	Thank you. I'm putting Irina Volodymyrenko's proposal to the vote. Arachami did not make any suggestions; he supported yours. Irina Volodymyrna, as you put it, I'm betting on the vote. Please vote. I can't overemphasize the point of your proposal. [[13:23:52]] For 165 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, let's move on, please. There's no way to vote on that. Colleagues, the next we have is a bill under registration number 8290, a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on improving national regulation of food security and animal development. We agreed without discussion, there is a proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act (registration No. 8290) amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve national regulation of food security and animal development. Please vote. [[13:24:50]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you. Colleagues, next 8011. Do you want to talk about it? We agreed on a discussion, but maybe. We need to talk. Okay. Then I propose that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:25:22]] For 249 Please. 249, decision taken. I would like to invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitri Oksana Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u219	Good afternoon, dear fellows! As the deputy head of the committee and the doctor, I keep talking to the medics, and the injuries that are currently taking place in our military are not at all those in peacetime. So our task with you is to enable our advocates and protectors to preserve their reproductive cells at the expense of the state. We worked with MoH, NZU, the Ministry of Social Policy, and doctors on Bill 8011. With this document, we extend social security to military personnel and allow the state to preserve its reproductive cells. This bill does not in any way define clinics and cryobanks where materials can be placed. This bill does not propose new rules for the surrender, storage and disposal of this material. We're giving, I repeat, the State's guarantee to pay for the removal and storage of the reproductive cells of our military and we're not in any way changing the legislation on this area. This will be done by law. Our committee is currently working on a comprehensive draft of the Reproductive Health Act, which will regulate all processes. And in summary, I am convinced that right now we should think about the future primarily of those who choose this future in the battlefield and give them the right to fatherhood and motherhood in the event of a serious injury. So, colleagues, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u220	Thank you, Oksana Alexandrovna. Please, from the committee? Oh, Galina Mikolayevna, please, Trelyakow.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u221	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't be long. The committee considered the draft bill, and although we are ready for second reading, we are ready to consider the whole issue, including Mrs. Oksana, in her own text. We recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u222	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u223	Please pass the word to Bobrowski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u224	Samantha Bobrowski. You'll be out of town?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u225	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u226	Samantha Bobrowski from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, you know, we can laugh for a long time and we can look at this bill differently, look for weak and strong sides, and this will definitely have to be done with the second reading. But what I want to tell you is that in our neighbors, in our Moscows, this is a mandatory procedure that is provided by the State and entered into the social package before their horde goes to Ukrainian territory. This means that they will multiply and produce, and their blood will be passed on, and generations will continue with hatred, including toward the Ukrainians. Unfortunately, we don't have that. And after you come to a funeral to your friends who are 21, 22, 19, 27 years old, those who don't have any families yet, and they don't have a continuation of their own kind, it's a very global and tragic story for our entire nation, because we're breaking away from those who are fighting today. And this bill is already critical for not only our defenders but for all of Ukraine to remember the DNA of those who are the enemies and who are the Moscals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u228	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, or who?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u229	Please give Mary the word of Ion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u230	Maria Ionova, please, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, I would also like to take this very seriously because it's humanitarian, it's socio-humanitarian, and it concerns our duty to give men and women, our defenders and our defenders the right to preserve and improve our demographic situation, which unfortunately will worsen. I'm not talking about you and me losing the best guys and girls who are now defending and giving us the right to work here. I agree with my colleagues that this is just the bill, this is the topic where we have to consider not only the intentions, but also the auxiliary reproductive technologies. Whatever anyone wants, this problem exists and it is, and unfortunately, it's not on the legislative level. We worked for quite a long time in the previous call. I thank our colleagues, Victoria Wagner, who has continued this subject because unfortunately, abuses are now taking place, and these abuses are also taking place especially in those private clinics whose assets belong to the Russian Federation. And we also have to talk about it honestly, shut down and forbid the cells of our Ukrainian citizens from being exported abroad or to an aggressor country. So it's important to put the horse in front of the wagon first. And this is the regulation of auxiliary reproductive technologies. And then we're going to vote on what's going on in the material bank. I wouldn't take an example from the Russian Federation, where so many things are forbidden. We realize that there should be restrictions during the war. But, in principle, we have a very open, liberal approach to this issue and a public private partnership. Because auxiliary reproductive technology is a very valuable topic and it's important to work with specialists who also get a pretty high salary. And we need quality with you and we need to keep these materials. That's the main thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u232	Thank you. Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u233	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the main author or author of this bill, because the subject is extremely relevant. And it's very good that we came to her professionally, and the committee had a discussion with all the representatives of the interested bodies of the central executive and other medical communities. And it is necessary for the State to guarantee those who act on behalf of the State during a state of war or emergency and risk losing their lives. The state of Ukraine should guarantee these people that their gene pool will be preserved and that they will be able to have their followers in the future. The Fatherland faction will support the vote in the first reading, and in the second way, by consulting experts, we will do so that, in the second reading, the bill will be balanced, professional and truly served as a protection for the people who protect our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u234	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? Well, then, colleagues, get ready, please. I would like to propose to the vote the adoption of a draft Act (registration No. 8011) amending and supplementing certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the rights of war participants to biological post-traumatic parenthood/motherhood. Please vote. [[13:34:25]] For 256 Decision taken. By factions, please show me. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Here we go to the question, Bill 8169, a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of individual issues of military duty and military service. No one's going to make it as far as I can see, we can move on to the adoption of the bill. I therefore propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of specific issues of military duty and military service (registration No. 8169). Please vote. [[13:35:30]] For 262 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Let me show you through the factions. The next question is the bill on registration number 7606, a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Nationality Act and the "On Ensuring the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language" on the conditions for admission to Ukrainian citizenship. There's an offer to vote, right? Okay. I would like to propose a second reading and, as a whole, the necessary technical legal amendments to the draft Act (registration number 7606) amending the Ukrainian Nationality Act and the Nationality Act and the "Providing the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language" on the conditions of admission to Ukrainian citizenship. Please vote. [[13:36:28]] For 281 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Show the factions, please. The next bill, registered number 8146, is a draft law amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, as well as some Ukrainian legislation on improving the fight against terrorism. There is a proposal to go to the vote, too. I would like to propose a motion for a vote to be adopted in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Council Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, as well as some legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the fight against terrorism (registration No. 8146). Please vote. [[13:37:32]] For 276 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Let me show you through the factions. Thank you. Let's move on to the next item on the agenda. Draft Registration Bill 8219 is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to ensure the phased implementation of the Single Judicial Information and Telecommunications System. We agreed without discussion. I therefore propose that the proposal be adopted on the basis of a redrafting of the relevant provisions in accordance with article 116, part one, of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to ensure the phased implementation of the Single Court Information and Telecommunications System (registration No. 8219). Please vote. [[13:38:30.]] For 262 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. The next bill under registration number 8375 is the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to improve the order of closure of criminal conduct initiated by the facts of the commission of offences against peace, human security and international law. We agreed, too, without discussion. We need to put this issue in the order of the day session first. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill for registration number 8375. Please vote. [[13:39:22]] For-286 Decision taken. I would like to propose that the proposal be adopted on the basis of a revision of the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the bill (registration number 8375) to amend the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to improve the order of closure of criminal conduct initiated by the facts of the commission of offences against peace, human security and international law. Please vote. [[13:40:00]] For 289 Decision taken. Next bill, registration number 9070. We agreed to a discussion. Discussed. Yeah. On the basis and in general, but with discussion, do you want to speak? Yeah, and Voice, let's talk about it then. Then we'll have to put it in the order of the day session. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the bill for registration number 9070. Please vote. [[13:40:50]] For-286 Decision taken. I'll bet the vote on the proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:41:11]] For 259. Decision taken. Let us move on to the discussion immediately, or should we listen to the committee? Let's talk about this. Then please sign in: two in, two in, two in. Please, "Serve of the People," Queen Valentina Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u235	Please pass the word to Ionushas Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u236	Ionushas.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u237	Dear colleagues! You've probably all seen that inside the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there's a "Guardy of Invasion." This bill gives us the opportunity, on the one hand, to obtain the same guarantees as the military police, on the other hand, we foresee the responsibility of the military. A very important bill. The Committee on Law Enforcement has decided to vote on the basis, and in general, I will ask you all very much to support it right now because this bill is needed by April of the month. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u238	Thank you. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u239	Mr. Chairman, please pass the word to Fedina Sofia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u240	Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u241	The whole country's lined up on the boards of the Guards of Attack. Very beautiful names, very nice motivation. But there must have been a lot of national MPs in the privacy and public question: Why are the police essentially given functions that are incompetent to them? The point is that the police reform was just about to lose its military function and become a civilian, and the police were more focused on ensuring the rule of law within the country, not on fighting an external enemy on the outer front. With all due respect to the police who today are defending the Ukrainian state. But in fact, this bill today, which carries on part of the duties and duties of military personnel, we need additional fighters. That's true. But I think it's insane to form a new Guard Attack among the police instead of building these brigades and incorporating them into the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Unfortunately, many Ukrainian citizens perceive this, this new "Guard of Attack" within the police, as a reconstruction of the internal forces that Yanukovic has brought up against Ukrainian citizens in his time. That is why we understand that both leadership and military leadership are in some way supporting this bill. But once again, I would like to publicly urge all of us, in particular our deputies and our government officials, not to assign individual organs to their own functions. And if they need these brigades, and they need them, they have to work, not in the police, but in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u242	Please. Thank you. Bobrowski. Ah, Ustinova Alexander Yurievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, should this bill be adopted? Yes. I'll explain in two words. We now have our special forces, our special forces have no right to use even javelins, which can be used peacefully by fighters, such as TRO. So do we. We're also now the special forces of our own, who will be fighting in the new guards of the attack, for example, there's "Lute," we're comparing them to soldiers in their responsibilities. But you know, I want you all to hear something else. Because when we talk about responsibility, unfortunately, for those who are fighting there, there are, and here are, excuse me, the "tyle rats" who are sitting in the offices right now, they don't have it. Do you remember a year ago when your colleague, first of all, I'm talking to the People's Servants, beat up the cops by breaking his ribs, and then driving him in a car with a bag on his head for three hours? So you know what the police told our law enforcement committee when they conducted their internal investigation? That they couldn't identify the people who stood on the blockage and did it. I mean, do I get it right that we have people in military uniforms who can't be identified by Nazpol himself? And now, as a parliament, it is very important that this responsibility be extended to those who can beat, and not only to the MPs, but to beat people on the stand and then to avoid responsibility. So I'm asking you very much how Parliament is now supporting a colleague in his struggle with law enforcement authorities who can't find out for a year who beat up a man on the blockage and then rolled around the city with a sack on his head. I really want you to remember this case, because each one of you can become the next one, and any Ukrainian can become the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u244	Thank you, Alexandra Yuriovna. Fatherland, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please. Invite the deputies to the hall, we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u245	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, the National MPs, in fact, we are taking this bill a serious step towards making changes to existing legislation -- and we are giving the National Police forces the seemingly indisputable powers. But, dear fellows, we have a state of war, we're all at war, even those who don't engage in any form, and you know it. Because of this, it was not a good life that initiated the formation of these offensive brigades. And I thank the leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and all the initiators, and I would like to emphasize that tens of thousands of troubled young people and Ukrainian citizens are entering these special departments that are already going through high school in difficult conditions without sufficient funding. Because of this, there are warnings. But once again, I'm sure it's just for a period of war. And I think we need to support the leadership and the ministries, and the leadership of the committee, more faithfully, our entire committee that voted, and approve this bill in the first reading and in general, and give it a chance. I agree that there are facts of a violation, a gross violation of the law by police officers. By the way, it's not just the police, it's not just the other force and law enforcement structures. But in a particular case, we need to work things out. War is a challenge for all. Let's win, and then we'll put order in these rows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u246	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Let's go to the vote, colleagues. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law (registration number 9070) amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine and other Ukrainian laws on the resolution of individual issues of the Ukrainian National Police during the war. Please vote. [[13:49:43]] For the 250. Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you. I would like to propose to the vote the adoption of a draft law (with registration number 9070) amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine and other Ukrainian laws on the settlement of specific issues of the Ukrainian National Police during the war. Please vote. [[13:50:25]] For 254 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Bill with registration number 7021, we agreed not to discuss it. I therefore propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Civil Procedure Code to clarify the grounds for examining the court’s decision under the newly declared circumstances in matters of person’s effectiveness (registration number 7021). Please vote. [[13:51:16]] For 264 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. The next bill with registration number 8273 is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage to prevent Ukraine from entering the State Register of Real Estate Monuments and the removal from the State Register of Real Estate Monuments of Ukraine of individual objects of cultural heritage. We agreed on the same thing without discussion. I therefore propose to vote the adoption of a bill with registration number 8273, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act on the non-inclusion of Ukraine's State Register of Real Estate Monuments and the removal from the State Register of Real Estate Monuments of Ukraine of individual objects of cultural heritage. Please vote. [[13:52:15.]] For 261 Decision taken. Next bill, 8024. We agreed there'd be a play by Fatherland. We need a show or we can. Okay. Then we go straight to the vote. I would like to propose a proposal for a vote to be adopted on the basis of a revision of the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Cultural Act on the introduction and maintenance of electronic registers of accounting and the management of cultural heritage and cultural values of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:53:05]] For 245 Decision taken. The factions. Thank you. Next bill, 8374. We agreed there would be a performance of European Solidarity. Let's put it in the agenda first. I am betting on the vote to include in the agenda of the day's session a bill under registration number 8374, a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws to clarify the order of recognition of outstanding cultural merit. Please vote. [[13:53:51]] For 270. Decision taken. I would like to put the question to the vote on draft bill 8374. [[13:54:13]] For 246 Decision taken. Please, we have a short performance of "European Solidarity" and we're going to the vote. Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u247	Colleagues, I think you know these names of personnel uncleanness, which regularly calls for many years in a row for the occupation of Ukraine, the destruction of Ukrainians, the cleansing of Ukrainian space, such as Baskov and Kirkorov, Dach and Kiva, Povali, Kruthy, Kingsov, Azarov, Ana Lorak. Well, this list can continue to be made by individuals who are unclean, who are still in this room for some reason, even though their parties are forbidden. Unfortunately, these people, whom I named and a large list of others, have State rewards: the heroes of Ukraine for all their merits, and unfortunately we can't deprive them of their names. Mr. Mikita Poturayev and I, with colleagues from the Committee of Humanities and Information Policy, have little to say to the committee that we're sending an application to the Ministry, please take away all the dirt from the State rewards, and we're told that we don't have enough grounds. So, dear colleagues, I ask you very much to support this bill so that we can get the possibilities and mechanisms to deprive those people who have long betrayed the Ukrainian state. Unfortunately, the mechanisms are now written so that there is no way to do this. For the second reading, this bill will have to be further drafted and amended, but I hope that after the vote we can finally clean up our state. Well, I also urge the majority and the leadership of the Supreme Council to put out drafts in the session hall as soon as possible, which prohibit the Moscow Church and ban officials at various levels of power from the forbidden parties, which are some hell of a lot more.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u248	Thank you, Sofia Romanovna. Let's go to the vote, colleagues. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of registration number 8374, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to clarify the order of recognition of outstanding cultural merit. Please vote. [[13:57:07]] For 268. Decision taken. Thank you. Then we have Bill 7253. It's the second reading again. Draft Act amending the Law on Geographical Names for the Decolonization of Toponymy and the Order of the Use of Geographical Names in Ukrainian Human Settlements. I mean, there are laws, there's Bujansky, there's Venislavsky. How will we go then? Confirmation? Maxim Arkadyovich, do you have confirmation or count? At your place? Also for confirmation. Is that what you're talking about? Is this your turn, Fedor Volodymyrovich? It's yours, isn't it? Come on, I'll find the law. What's the readout? Amendment number six. It's partially accounted for. It's all accounted for. We have a representative of the Vitaly Bezgin Committee on the rostrum. Okay. Then a minute to Venislavski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, this bill on the decolonization of toponymas is legislative proposal number six, which is collective, including me. It's considered editorially, partly by the committee. I suggest we take it fully into account because it reflects more fully the essence of this bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u250	Maxim Arkadyovich. I'll bet you vote number six on the full vote. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:59:14]] For-191 It remains partially taken into account in the committee's drafting. Maxim Arkadyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, we are about to vote again for this 6th amendment and I ask you not to support it again. It's to destroy the monuments to Ukrainian heroes, heroes of World War II. [[B in m in s a l in]] The hood is Ukrainian! Every Dubois is Ukrainian! Drevijanko is a Ukrainian! Marinesco is Ukrainian! Protect the Ukrainian heroes! The previous authorities didn't do it, they're trying to put you through it. Don't support it. Look who's protecting it! What else do you need? Look who's protecting it. We're voting red, we're voting red!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u252	Maxim Arkadyovich, we can't put the 6th, it's true. We can put the 11th. Because we've already voted her editorial as decided by the committee. It's already partially accounted for. Edit a committee to put in? Can we do that, Apparatus? We don't do that, Maxim Arkadyovich. Well, we've voted on it once before. We can't. I don't think we can. We've made decisions about her once before. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do the 11th. You're gonna put it on, 11th? On one occasion, we made a decision. You want to make a decision on her for the second time? Well, I don't think we can do the same thing the second time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergey Vitaliovich Calchenko, may I? It's a regular committee. He's offering it now. Are you suggesting a confirmation bet? For confirmation? But we can't vote twice on the same page. We didn't do that. We're on our way. We'll open it now. Write me a complaint, Maxim Arkadyovich. Please, 11 revisions. Please. No, I won't bet. I won't bet. 11 revisions, please. Ah, the position of the committee. No, there's no object. There is no object. That's already going to be the 11th answer. You're going to answer the 11th. 11th row, Maxim Arkadyovich, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, I will certainly return to this matter in person. But I'm asking you not to support this. It's about taking the Soviet symbolism out of brotherly graves, that is, taking it out of the dead. That's inappropriate. It's about dismantling monuments, too. Can you hear them crying? How they cry! I ask you not to confirm this amendment. Don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u254	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u255	Thank you. Colleagues, please don't shout. Let's essentially do this because we've got a lot of emotion. It's not about the papers. It's a conceptual discussion. Maxim and I had her. The discussion is whether the standards of this law are spreading to heroes of World War II or not. We discussed this, and it's true. According to the committee, this bill is much broader than the Decommunization Act. Accordingly, the Communist period of World War II is governed by the Decommunization Law. And by dividing such as, of course, the collective Mr. Kožedub, the Decommunization Act, they're outlawed by the law. Because. Wait. According to the committee, nothing about the actors involved in the liberation of Ukraine from Nazi invaders will be destroyed and dismantled. That's essentially what I'm talking
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u256	Thank you. I'll bet you number 11. It's part of the committee. So I'm putting it in the committee's office right now. Please vote. [[14:04:24]] For 227 Edit is part of the committee. Can we get to the vote? Then I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, Bill 7253 amending the Ukrainian Geographical Names Act on the decolonization of toponymy and the organization of the use of geographical names in the Ukrainian population. Please vote. [[14:05:10]] For 248 Decision taken. The law was passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u257	Can I make you an offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u258	An offer? Yes, please, Olena Kostvena. Do you want me to show you on the Word Channel?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u259	You guess my thoughts, Alexander Sergiyovich. But I would like all of us to thank Alexander Sergiyyovich for his wonderful debut in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and yet to make an offer to show today's debate on the beautiful candidates who have become ministers, the budget of Ukraine is a responsible decision and that question. Please support not me, but Alexander Sergiyovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u260	I'm betting on the vote on Elena Kostovny's proposal as she said. Please vote. [[14:06:20]] For-137 The decision is not taken. We move on to the next item on agenda: 8395. That's where Fatherland wanted to play. Is it relevant? No, I'm good. Okay. Then we go straight to making a decision, but we have to put it in the agenda first. I'm betting on the vote to include in the agenda of the day session a law with registration number 8395 on amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees on social standards in the field of culture. Please vote. Let's put it into the agenda of the day session. [[14:07:09]] For 260 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill (registration number 8395) amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees on social standards in the sphere of culture. Please vote. [[14:07:39]] For 265 Decision taken. The next bill under registration number 6405 is the second reading, agreed without permission. I therefore propose to vote the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine with a view to developing general purpose aviation, adapting Ukraine's legislation to the European Union's civil aviation legislation, establishing additional mechanisms for effective control of aviation security and deregulation of civil aviation activities. Please vote, accept in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. [[2:08:32]] For 266 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The next thing we have is a staff, inside the Supreme Council, it's included without a vote, so we suggest we vote it now. 9109 of the Decision on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council Committees of the Ninth Appeal of Ukraine. I bet. Do you want some? This includes no discussion, it's a change in committees. This includes without a vote, Irina Volodymyrna! That's different. I would like to propose to the vote a proposal to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the Decree (registration number 9109) on amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. Please vote. [[14:09:50]] For 236 Decision taken. Actor's been approved. Next Order of Registration 9119. Draft Decision on the implementation by the head of the Bekhter Rural Military Administration of the Skadovian region of the Herson area of authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. [[14:10:31]] For 263 Decision taken. I propose to take a decision as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[14:10:53]] For 261 Decision taken. Order No. 9119 on the enforcement by the head of the Bekhter Rural Military Administration of the Skadevian region of the Herson area of authority provided for in the second part of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status was adopted. Next bill, registration number 8030, and alternative bill 8030-1, draft Law on preschool education. We agreed without discussion. One minute to the author and we'll vote. Please, Vladimir Anatoliyovich and Natalia Anatolyevna, Romanovna, excuse me, then one minute too. Okay. Vladimir Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, today is a big day for me, and I am on this rostrum for the first time, and you can give me a chance to carry out my mission with which I came to Parliament, namely, to push for the formation of such a system of early development and preschool education in Ukraine for which every Ukrainian's life will be happy. Bill 8030 proposes a new vision in the area of preschool education, new principles of public policy and taking into account the best world experience, challenges and Euro-integration processes. Please support Bill 8030. Investing in the human capital of the state is the best possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u262	Thank you, Vladimir Anatolyevich. Thank you. Please, Pippa Natalia Romanovna, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u263	Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! Bill 8030-1 is also about new philosophy in preschool education. It is based on three basic things: the safety of children, which is important every day both in wartime and elsewhere, the quality of education and the efficient use of preschool funds. With regard to security, in particular, there are certified courses as in many countries of the European Union, which is a requirement, to go to every tutor to have minimal habits before helping a child if an emergency occurs. The other one. It's about the quality of education. Scientific research suggests that the quality of education is determined by the results of education of educators to the requirements of the educational environment. This bill has much to say about the quality and the preschool environment that our children have to surround and their results accordingly. Because they are often underestimated.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u264	Thank you, Natalia Romanovna. Let's go to the vote, colleagues. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law on preschool education (registration No. 8030). Please vote. [[14:14:25]] For 242 Decision taken. Then we have Bill 8095. You asked for five minutes there, didn't you? Puziczuk, please. Five minutes, two. Is that correct? No, we agreed it would be five minutes. We can just replace the directions for the performance. Are we going to fix it? Ouch. Do you have a lot of rights? 16? Is that what you're talking about? Yours, right? What numbers?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u265	Yes, thank you. Dear Chairman! I have 16 amendments rejected. The first and second amendments are mine. Dear colleagues, this bill grants the National Agency to ensure the quality of higher education to an excessive amount of authority, limiting the rights of participants in the educational process, and limiting the autonomy of higher education institutions. The project envisages the implementation by the National Agency of the quality of higher education for post-credit monitoring of educational programmes that it has already accredited. And according to the results of post-credit monitoring, the NAME can cancel the accreditation of universities. There are no rules, no order, no periodicity of post-credit monitoring, which means that the institutions are completely dependent.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u266	Andrew Viktorovich, you want to put the first and the second on the line. Right? I'm betting on the issue number one by Puziczuk Andrija Viktorovich. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:16:51]] For-55 The decision is not taken. And the 2rd decree of the People's Deputy, Puziyczuk Andriy Viktorovich, is rejected by the committee. [[14:17:12]] For-46 The decision is not taken. What's next, Andrew Petrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u267	Amendment number 8.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u268	Eight?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u269	Yeah. Andrew Puziychuk. Dear colleagues, if this bill is adopted, this will mean the full dependence of higher education institutions on the NAME. Colleagues, it is not possible to explain everything about the need for adaptation to European legislation, and there must be a reasonable compromise between the implementation of European norms and the preservation of the right to develop their own home educational institutions. And I'd like the committee head to just comment. Why are you giving your NAME such undue powers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u270	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u271	Dear colleagues, let's make a deal: first we'll read the laws and then we'll comment on them. Well, because it's insane, well, honestly, there's not one similar norm, no word you said there's no such norm, so stop it. The committee rejected the amendment. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u272	I'm betting on the vote number eight. Please vote. [[14:18:40]] For-42 The decision is not taken. What's next? Maybe it's been five minutes. Do you have any potential, Andry Viktorovich? You can see there's no potential for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u273	Mr. Chairman, let me read out what we're going to have on this bill and we can discuss it with the committee head after the vote. Now, according to the results of the post-credit monitoring, the NAME will either warn and oblige it to remove any deficiencies detected, or to terminate the certificate, that is from the law, from the bill. And again, to your own discretion, without any criteria for applying one or the other. Well, listen, you're really creating a paradise for the corruptionists at the name. And I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u274	I'll bet the vote on number nine. Please vote. [[14:19:55]] For-45 The decision is not taken. What's the next one, Andry Viktorovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u275	Your Honor, I suggest you put this bill to the vote, and let the room be determined. The Fatherland faction won't vote and asks you not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u276	It's a wonderful decision! And very timely. And the hall is grateful to you, Andriy Viktorovich, for your understanding. Please invite the deputies into the hall. No more bets? Please invite the deputies to the voting room as a matter of urgency. Let's put it to a vote. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, I'll go back to the last question: post-credit monitoring. I'm explaining what this is. There are requirements for accreditation that universities have to implement. For example, part of the number of doctors of science. They're being accredited for 5 or 10 years, so think about it. They still don't check. I mean, you're taking someone for a year with you, you're getting the necessary doctors, you're getting a certificate. Six months later, you release them, and you work for yourself for 10 years. I mean, you're responsible for this, judging from what kind of adjustment you're making. We suggest that we do post-credit monitoring when only the conditions under which the certificate is obtained are checked. And if they continue to meet these conditions, it automatically continues. So, dear fellows, let's read it very carefully, it's all right. Thank you. And I ask you to uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u278	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act (registration No. 8095) amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the quality of higher education. Please vote. [[2:21:59]] For 219 The decision is not taken. So what are we putting in there again? I'll take a look. To read again, colleagues. Proposal: To re-read the Bill (with Registration No. 8095) on amending certain Ukrainian laws on quality assurance of higher education. Please vote. [[14:22:40]] For 235 Yes. Decision taken. The law is aimed at re-reading, re-reading, yes. David Georgiyovich's offer is, yes, creative? David Georgievicz may be voting ratifications. They vote fast, everyone backs up. Oh, no? Okay. David Georgiyovich Arahami, please give us your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u279	My colleagues, I would like to offer to thank all my colleagues in the hall for the fruitful two days of work and to suggest that we put it all in the right format on TV. And end up on this positive note today's working day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-03-21-m0.u280	Thank you, David Georgievich. To put your proposal to a brilliant vote or not? Don't you insist, David Georgievich? Don't insist. I'll make a request with your permission. Yes, we can be here to support us in this unforgivable process. Yes, colleagues, we have two questions, which, as it were, are two questions that do not require mass in the hall. These are blocking orders, we're going to go to them, we're going to read the questions, and we're going to spend another half hour of our lives. So, colleagues, let's move on to the question. Bill with registration number, Project 8274-P. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the draft Act on the amendment of Chapter XXI of the Customs Code on the establishment of temporary features for the determination of the customs value of goods exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine (Registration No. 8274 of 09.12.201222). Do the authors want to speak? There's no Volodymyrna. Okay. Then I am voting on the decision to adopt the entire draft Decree 8274-P. Please vote. [[14:25:06]] For-28 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. And the draft Decree (registration number 7628-P) repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the second reading and the whole draft Law on Collective Agreements and Contracts (registration number 7628 of 02.08.2022). Please vote. Are they willing to speak, the author of the decree? Julia Volodymyrna. None. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[14:25:49]] For-23 The decree is rejected. We don't have any more questions to vote on today. Distillate? The distillate will insist, Mr. Igor. All right, colleagues. We have questions, now, just a second, I'll find them somewhere. Thus, 15 MPs have been asked, 3 of them to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and 12 to the heads of other government bodies, local governments. Paul Bakuntz’s request to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the release of Lieutenant Ivakhov Vladislav Mikolaiovich. Peter Pavlovsky’s request to the Head of the State Agency for Reconstruction and Development of Ukraine’s Infrastructure for information on all objects and measures financed by the State Budget of Ukraine, prepared by the State Agency for Roads. Peter Pavlovsky's request to the Kharkiv City Head to provide information on the size of the receivable of all categories of consumers in front of the Harkovi Heat Networks Communicated Company, the amount of debt, debt, the period of limitation that he has gone through. Paul Bakuntz to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for the provision of calculations on the possibility of increasing the amount of educational subsidies for the territorial communities of the Lviv region in 2023. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes to the Order on the Functioning of Hospital Districts and Hospital Clusters and the establishment of their borders, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order of February 28, 23rd, No. 174, "Some questions about the organization of a capable health facility network" and the need for the preservation of infectious hospitals. Anton Yatzenka to the Cherkas City Head for providing information and copies of documents on the management of budget and municipal property by the Cherkas City Council, its structural units, and utilities. Anton Yatzenka to the Cherka City Head for providing information and copies of documents regarding the size of salary, allowances, allowances, bonuses, material aid, and other payments made to the Cherka City Head, Bondarenko Anatoly Vasilovich for 2022 - 2023 years. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for providing copies of documents on the basis of which the Society, with limited responsibility for the Medical Medical and Diagnostic Center, made use of a land plot located at Shevchenka Street, 50th Street, Uman City, Uman Region, Cherkas region. Anton Yatzenka to the Smilan City Head for providing information and copies of documents regarding the administration of budget funds by municipal institutions and companies of the City Council of Cherkas for 2021-2022. Anton Yatzenk to the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine on the provision of information on the 2021 to 2022 years by the State Audit Service of Ukraine (its territorial departments): public financial audit; procurement checks; inspection (review); customer monitoring of purchases by utilities, institutions, organizations, structural units of the City Council of the Cherka region. Vitalia Vojciekhowski to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the possible acquisition of funds from the state budget of Tkachen Jurij Olegovich in conjunction with the officials of the Ministry of Economic, Trade and Agriculture Development of Ukraine, who are figures in criminal conduct under No. 62021100030000017 of May 13, 2021. Dmitra Razumkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the size of wages and other payments made to the head of the private stockholders' association "Ukrnafta" and the private shareholder company "Ukritnafta" in a busy position. Anton Yatzenk to the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine for information on the implementation between 2021 and 2022 years by the State Audit Service of Ukraine (its territorial departments): State Financial Audit; Procurement Verification; Inspection (audit); Procurement Monitoring; Customers of Municipal Enterprises, Institutions, Organizations, Structural Units of the Cherka City Council of the Cherka Region. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for the issuance of copies of papers on the conduct of an expert land assessment at the address: Sholm-Alayhem Street, 37, Uman City, Uman Region, Cherkas region. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for the submission of copies of papers on the conduct of an expert land assessment at: Voksalna Street, 4-B, Uman City, Uman Region, Cherkas region. And we still have one small announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the election of the deputy head of the political party 'Serve of the People's Party' of the Ukrainian National Deputy Grishin Yulia Mikolayevna. That's what we're congratulating her on. Therefore, the honourable colleagues, the consideration of matters of order for today, has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I'm calling a recess at our plenary meeting. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. Together to victory! Glory to Ukraine!
