ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, during the ninth session in the context of the state of war," today we continue our plenary session. I note that, according to the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present in the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a pause in the plenary meeting and we all have to move to safe places corresponding to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the National Hymn of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u2	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For over 17 months, the heroic struggle of the Ukrainian people against full - scale criminal Russian aggression has been ongoing. Every day our soldiers, by force, at the cost of their own health and life, reflect the attacks of the invaders, destroying the personal composition and technology of the enemy, returning the Ukrainian flag to the liberated cities and villages. Let us pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of the defenders and protectors who have fallen for the bright future of Ukraine, as well as to the peaceful citizens who died as a result of the terrorist state's criminal actions. [[A Minute of Silence]] Dear colleagues, on July 26, the Senate of the Italian Republic adopted a decision to recognize the Holocaust in 1932-1933 by genocide of the Ukrainian people. I would like to thank our fellow parliamentarians for their significant contribution to restoring historical justice and honouring the memory of millions of innocent victims of the Ukrainian Holocaust. [[Applause]] Dear National MPs, today in Ukraine there is a Day of Medical Workers and Workers – a professional celebration of people with great heart, deep knowledge and capable hands. In a peaceful life, and especially in times of trial, it is often the most expensive thing to do — human life. They always provide help, rescue, comfort, and give hope in advance. Let us greet all health - care workers with applause, thanking them for their fine work, longing for good health, endurance, and peace in heaven! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes' time to the daytime affairs of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. I'm asking representatives of the MPs and groups to sign up. Please sign up, your honors. Please, Slavicka, national deputy Slavicka Antonina Kerimovna, deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u3	Please pass the word Gnatenko Valeria to a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u4	Please, Valery Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u5	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! The Ukrainian people continue to show unbreakableness and firmness. Our armies gradually free the Ukrainian land from unsolicited guests by their Titanic work and by force. A great deal of gratitude and a low yield to every protector and protector for their special contribution and will to victory. The massive impact of the Ukrainian South, in parallel with this very acute situation in the East, is the use of cluster munitions against civilians, as was the case in the city of Constantine’s Donetsk region on Monday when children were killed. The scariest thing that children die the next time is the unprotected sections of our population. Our growing generation is the most vulnerable to the horrors of war. And the Supreme Council needs to do everything to strengthen the social protection of our children affected by aggression. In the past month, you and I have made a significant contribution in this direction by adopting Bill 9042-1. At the same time, I would stress that the standards set out are completely inadequate. The document focuses only on minor victims during a large - scale war. Unfortunately, the war did not start in 2022, but we have fixed it since 2014. And Ukrainian Donbas has been going through all this horror for nine years. We need to reach out to all the Ukrainian children affected by this aggression. Moreover, there is a separate status of children of war in Ukraine who have been in need of coverage since 2014. Our "Delivery of Ukraine" task force initiated Project 9042, extended the status of children of war, and proposed appropriate remedies for the adoption of Law 9042-1. We call on the Supreme Council to support this conceptual and principled position. We need to ensure justice and social protection for all children who really need it. If this is a cost issue, the answer is simple: you have to take priority for everyone, and the President recently said that security, defence and social protection are the first. We must ban the heads of military administrations from paying for the cosmic wages that some cities now have over 200,000 dollars, the construction of fountains and squares. It's just a betrayal of ordinary people and someone with extra money, and I suggest you come with me tomorrow to the East, to the Donetskin, and talk to the people who live there today. See how they live. And the Ukrainians take off the last one to support each other. Instead, the officials found the "gold of life" and now they are proud of it. We have to fix it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u6	Please, Ana Konstantinovna Speedboat, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! Even though we have a holiday today in the medics, but I want to raise a painful subject, because I have a huge number of phone calls coming to me from the boys, I hear all the time I come to them on the front, a crazy number of complaints about how they feel about them on the side of the Medical Force on the spot and on the side of helping them, especially if they get hurt. I'm going to tell you a great example. A person gets a contusion, he's got braces, and he's got 10 days in the landing and he's told that he's just pretending and he's sitting there and he's fighting. This attitude toward our defenders is unacceptable. The same is true of boys who complain about how their battalions make up for them. My colleagues, I literally tell you, "Why do we have guys with hairs, curves, incomprehensible, in which state of health, completely unmotivated, and in Kiev, go to any gym -- and you'll see overcrowded healthy guys avoiding a summons?" It's not my words, it's the question of the guys I hear all the time when I go to them, "What's everybody hanging out in clubs and we're sitting around without a rotation for a year and a half?" I don't know what the answers to these questions are. Honestly. I just don't have them because I have a lot of questions about V.V.C. If you see, we're in V.V.C. and RTTC. I've taken the initiative to create a temporary investigation commission that will deal with enforcement of legislation in RTTC, VLC and the military. Because, for your understanding, everything that's going on with the boys is all our fault. No one but us. It's from their understanding. So I think it's time we intervene in what's going on. Likewise, colleagues, let me tell you about the military spending. Please tell me, I was on the side of Yampol and Liman, we got shot. We travel two miles [2 km], and the road is paved. The boys say: "How can we spend the cost of patching the road in a combat zone?" If they don't have enough drones, they don't have enough nightgowns, they don't have enough thermals, so why waste the budget? So, colleagues, let's do something, and we'll do something, and some simple guys protect and help, because in their eyes, we're the only evil and the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the National MP, Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, the MP's "Trust". Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! Today, I have the great privilege of saying, "Thank you. Thank you all, thank you for your titanium work, for your courage, for your professionalism." Because the last few years are years of great challenge for the entire medical field. It's also a pandemic, and especially now at the time of, in fact, a full-scale invasion, when the profession of medicine is a two-pronged, narrow-minded profession on the front, because it's a rescue for the wounded, then, of course, military hospitals. And we understand very well that many medical professionals are missing those difficult stories of the injury of our military personnel through their own heart. And perhaps, of course, not everything is perfectly smooth, especially psychologically, but it is important to support our doctors, who believe, in very difficult conditions, to help all Ukrainians to recover as well as our defenders in particular. Especially, of course, psychological recovery. It's rehabilitation, it's not easy. And the medics are successful, and it's not just the doctor's success, it's the success of the entire team: both the nurse, and the nurse, and all the personnel -- when they're psychologically restoring the protector. It is only on this day that we want everyone to have even more energy and effort to work, to treat both our defenders and all the Ukrainians. And, of course, this medicine is supported by both Ukrainians and especially volunteers. And the worst of all is when society learns such absolutely negative, violent facts from the media, when, unfortunately, at the time of the great challenge of war, someone is profiting. It's very destabilizing society, it's ruining social bargaining. This is particularly a shock to the nerves of those who have a special, heightened sense of justice on various fronts. So I would like to thank, of course, the media that exposes these facts. Once again, we want to call the hall to the point that we need to clearly restore transparency in the work of all officials. So society hires officials, we get to work, and we have to work transparently and declare everything we need. It is therefore believed that the declaration will be renewed. It's believed that maybe it's going to be a little bit of a shock to the facts that society is learning. We want to believe in justice, God, man, and victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u10	Please, Alexander Yuriyovna Ustinov, the Voice faction. I understand you're passing the word, aren't you? Please, Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u11	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, today our culture of eradication of all Russian is finally becoming not a voluntary culture, not a part chaotic one, but a full one, because today, the law on the abolition of all Russian in Ukrainian space -- the Decolonization Act, which for the first time regulates the process of removing Russian imperial narratives from the public space of our cities. Imagine, ten years ago, Ilych was standing in Kiev on Bessarabia and the reds were freaking out under him. That's not happening today. But in Ukraine there are still hundreds of streets of the Russian aircraft Čkalova, which has nothing to do with Ukraine, hundreds of Gagarin and Tolstoy streets, and countless monuments of Gorski and Pushkin, which mark our Ukrainian symbolic space. These symbols were imposed on Ukraine. These symbols were an attempt to impose Russian peace on us. But it didn't go away! From now on, it's all out of the law. The local council has six months to get rid of Russian imperial symbols. These powers will then be vested in mayors and district administrations. Fellows, according to our decision, it is up to you to bring into line with the law the name of the population: Novomoskowsk, Prvotravnevsk, Pushkino, Czervonograd in Lvivščina and the Russian names of the communities: South, South Ukraine, Sverodonetsk. Many novelties in this law appear for the first time. It's the first time in law that the term "rusification," "Ukrainephobia," "captivated peoples." I think that not one generation of fighters for our country's independence, including all our warriors, Protectors and Protectors, who have been involved in the modern Russian-Ukrainian war, have dreamed that all these Russian imperial symbols in Ukraine would be outlawed. This law has for the first time created a personal responsibility for defenders from anti - Ukrainian parties. The law prohibits calling the streets after the MPs and leaders of the OPCW, the Occupy, the Shari Party, all the other parties that are outside the law. Such attempts have been made in recent years, and all of this will be prohibited from now on. But the honourable colleagues said "a," let's say "b." A bill has been registered in this room for six months to clear local councils from the pro-Russian forces. This is our responsibility and the Ukrainians will not understand unless this bill is passed by us. Let's clean up our country, the price paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u12	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace". Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u13	Please pass the word to Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u14	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u15	Thank you. Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, Honorary Fellows, I would like to advise the previous speaker to read the Constitution of Ukraine, article 5, which clearly states that the only source of authority in Ukraine is the Ukrainian people, and the Ukrainian people give an assessment to all political forces in the elections. And do not engage in the exploitation of power, for this involves criminal responsibility. Let us wait for the elections and see who will go to the Supreme Council and who will receive the trust of the Ukrainian people. Our political group "For Life and Peace" is doing everything today to bring Ukraine's victory over Russia closer. We are confident of that, and now, when we meet people in the Chernobyl area, we have received support. People today support the efforts of the President of Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine to bring victory over Russia closer. At the same time, people are asking simple, understandable questions that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should answer. For example, I've been meeting with voters right now, and they're asking, "Dear colleagues, since June 1st, the government's decision on electricity tariffs is now 2 bracelets of 64. At the same time, the government, explaining that it raises the tariff from 1 in 68 to 2 in 64 copies, will direct these funds to restore the infrastructure destroyed by Russian aggression and rocket strikes. And people are asking the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take control of this targeted electricity supplement to get control, because it's actually human money that's investing in infrastructure restoration today, actually simple people are becoming investors of private energy companies. People ask: Honorable colleagues, then make it clear to us that this is an investment element that today electricity payers are supposed to be co-owners of private energy companies. This targeted supplement should be controlled by law enforcement authorities. And with a clear and clear understanding of the amount involved. If we take official statistics in 2021, Ukraine consumes 154 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity. Now, for every person, 96 copies of investment in infrastructure have been added to each Ukrainian family — 150 billion dollars a year. Dear colleagues, and we need to put in a job today to ensure that this target supplement is not stolen, it didn't go into the pockets of the owners of the energy companies, and it went back to the people with an unbreakable supply of electricity. This is the responsibility of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u16	Be a good girl, Friz is handing over the powder. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u17	First of all, I would like to join the greetings of Ukrainian medical personnel, primarily military medical personnel. We have now returned from the hospital in Dniper, and I strongly urge our colleagues to visit such hospitals and to support both the fighters and the medics. Army, language, faith, EU and NATO. Finally, this became a national idea, one that unites Ukrainian society. Today, there is a matter of language. Of course, we are in favor of the status of English, but we will not allow ourselves to be depressed, suppressed, and restricted by Ukrainian language, including Ukrainian subtitles. I urge the House today to vote for the resignation of the minister of culture and disinformation, the father of Ukrainian censorship, the person who destroyed the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, which was created by us, Dergkino, did not evacuate the Ukrainian museums. And do not follow the example, unfortunately, of individual members of the committee that voted against resignation, except for representatives of European Solidarity. Moved from a dead point of view and a question of faith. And today we are finally voting on the Moscow Church project. Of course, it is the depression of parliamentaryism when eight months is not our law, but at least so. And today we expect the House of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine and the decision to take yet another step from Moscow to celebrate Christmas, Easter on the traditional European calendar. We also insist on renewing the electronic declaration. But I don't understand why the government that runs these negotiations didn't draft its bill, it was trying to play parliamentary democracy. We and our team introduced our bill in 2015, eight years ago. Just like the laws on government, corporate governance, laws on decentralization, and the independence of anti-corruption bodies. And for today, it's enough just not to cancel it or to interfere with our path to Europe. I would also like to point out that we should invite the Chief Security Service to the Supreme Council in connection with the involvement of the Social Network Security Service, discrediting our partners, and dismissing or removing those who hinder Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u18	The word is given to the National Deputy of Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u19	I'd like to present Leon's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u20	Please, Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my colleagues from the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation for accepting the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization of UNESCO. How will I respond fully to the key proposal of this appeal, to begin disenfranchisement of the Russian Federation of Membership in UNESCO and its organs. For the first time in my life, it's hard for me to hold back my emotions and feelings, because it's not just my feelings, it's the emotions of my hometown, Odessa, who's had a sneaky and cynical attack. The crime committed by Russia against a peaceful city is difficult to determine, because it is not just an act of vandalism against an inheritance protected by UNESCO, it is a crime against humanity itself, because innocent people have suffered, and among the injured are children. But Odessa is unscrupulous and unscrupulous, and Odessa is angry, as is Kyiv, Lviv, Mikolai, Zaporozhye, and other Ukrainian cities that have suffered Russian attacks. And so, like all of Ukraine, we demand the punishment of the guilty, the smallest of which will be the expulsion of Russia from UNESCO. However, we must not only punish the guilty but also restore justice. I would like to thank once again my colleagues from the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation for supporting my initiative to adopt a separate resolution on determining the sources of reparation for Odessa, Lviv, and other cities in Ukraine in the event of repeated Russian attacks on objects of global heritage. This resolution should consist of two paragraphs. It's number one. The Supreme Council is asking to establish a special fund under the auspices of UNESCO, which will list some of the frozen Russian assets. It is these funds that must go towards the restoration of the objects of the global heritage in Odessa, Lviv, and other cities of Ukraine that are under UNESCO protection and that have been damaged or destroyed during Russian missile attacks. Item two. The Supreme Council appeals to all institutions that are looking after the creation of an international mechanism to compensate Ukraine for the damage caused by Russian aggression, asking for a separate item in the special international agreement on the creation of such mechanisms. He will predict that Russia will not have the right to recover its assets until all the World Heritage sites located in Ukraine under UNESCO protection are restored. Colleagues, the adoption of such a separate resolution will not only restore the damage and damaged objects of the world’s heritage, but this resolution will allow justice to be restored. We appreciate the help of our international partners, but those who have destroyed them, not those who appreciate them, must pay for the destruction of world and cultural values. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand that Julia Volodymyr's Timoshenko faction "The Fatherland" and then we move on to the order of the day. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u23	Today, indeed, a very big holiday for Ukraine is a doctor's day. And I'm very sorry that today, when the Supreme Council is working and when we're celebrating such a holy day as a doctor's day, especially during the war, there's no bill in the room that really solves the issue, especially for military doctors. Now I want to welcome all of our doctors, our nurses, our babysitters, all of Ukraine's absolutely medics, especially those who work either on the front line or at the front line, who are helping our wounded, to welcome with their professional holiday day. And tell them that, as without our army, Ukraine's victory in this terrible war is impossible, so it is not possible without the medics to win this terrible, brutal, bloody war. And tell them that they are the same soldiers who defend Ukraine today, our soldiers in white robes. But it's not enough just to say hello, I'd like our parliament, the government, to start taking care of our medics. What would they expect? So that those today who save lives in the stables, on the front, on that line of fire, on those areas where fighting is taking place, so that they get the same salary as they get today's money and military money, our military. Because they similarly risk their lives, they likewise fight for freedom, independence, and independence. And so this is the first decision that I would like our Parliament to make in the coming days. The second thing is important. Today, our wounded are treated in hospitals at the same rates as civilians are treated -- it's impossible. Our parliament has to provide our medics with normal funding to help the wounded, which means introducing a 2.5-to-all rate of treatment used by the military. This is also the task of our Parliament, but that is not being done. I'm so sorry. There is also no predetermined equipment for the treatment of injured hospitals, including civilians near the line of fire. It's all Parliament's job. And I would like not only to welcome the professional celebration of our medics but to do everything to thank them for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We're done, time for the performances is up. Let's move on to the agenda. But before that, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose that a signal vote be held before the issue begins. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. Dear colleagues, vote, please. [[12:37:18]] For – 248 Facing the Challenge 8 Abstaining — 13 Not a Vote — 73 Who's with the procedure? Heroceno? Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u25	Dear Mr. Head! Yesterday, during a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, several factions immediately demanded that we put in a signal vote and alert our registration so as not to violate this long-standing tradition of yours. And we heard that it didn't fit the rules, and there wasn't a vote last night. Why? Because, unfortunately, there were no 226 Ukrainian national deputies in the session hall yesterday. And we urge you not to show double standards when some plenary sessions start with this test registration, and in other days we're told that the registration took place on 07.02. 2023, and it's been in this length for six months, that's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u26	Thank you. I'll react immediately if Irina Volodymyrna lets me. We're all on schedule here, aren't we? In accordance with the Rules, according to the 28th article, paragraph 11 of the Rules, it is the right, not the duty of the presiding officer, to ask the question of the signal vote. So let's teach the Rules, in this time of year it was possible to conquer, not so many pages in that book. Julia Volodymyrna, by procedure? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, yesterday was truly an extraordinary day. I think the Head of the Supreme Council knows very well that the Ukrainian legislative field is not only made up of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure Act, but there are still a number of different laws, including the Constitution, including the Constitutional Court's decisions, which are an integral part of Ukraine's legislation. So yesterday, the Constitution, the Constitutional Court's decision, was grossly violated by the very essence of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. At a time when there were not even 100 deputies in the room, there was no vote to vote without a vote, which by its very nature did not have 226 votes, because there were no 226 votes in the room, which was why it was a gross violation. We're going to the Constitutional Court for a violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u28	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Of course it's your right, just to remind you that you need 45. Guys, come on, let's not be. We just need to recruit 45 national deputies. Furthermore, in addressing the Constitutional Court, I would like to draw attention to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides that the activities of the Supreme Council are governed by the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council. Thank you. Who else? Ichchenka, out of procedure. Only, friends, from the procedure, we don't turn it into a discussion if it's not a procedure. Vadim, I respect that, but I'm gonna stop this. Please, Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u29	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, yesterday, when there were no 226 deputies in the hall, some of the amendments that today: (a) protect national security and defence, they had to be put to a positive vote. These are the regulations of the national MPs, some of the national deputies, including the coalition, which were rejected by the committee. And the second. I'm asking you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, to take this into account because there were no 226 deputies and all the deputies were unable to make corrections, including in agrarian universities, because the rectors, because there were a lot of executives working to get the deputies to know about the regulations. So I'm asking you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, exactly what we were going to do about national security and.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u30	Vadim Eugeneovich, you came to me. We had a discussion here with you, and we agreed with you that every consideration of the issues of the agenda, it has its permeability. Yesterday the stage was completed, which involved amendments that had been rejected. Today we go to the amendments that have been taken into account, and let's move within this stage. So let's move on. Honorable colleagues who will bet, are there deputies in the hall who will make the amendments that are considered by the committee for confirmation? Julius Volodymyrically, will you make corrections? Who? Is the student going to make an adjustment? Yvchenko, repair number, please. Vadim Eugeneovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u31	Amendment No. 21. Dear colleagues, I wanted to once again urge the leaders of factions and deputies to let us understand. This law takes the land from our students, our colleagues, and believe me, mechanics need enough land, those who learn seeds, the agronomists need enough land to be competitive. And I'm asking you simply, Ruslan Alexiyovich, to set up the adjustments that the "Fatherland" faction demands on agrarians.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u32	Vadim Evgenovich, 21st amendment to Haida's authorship. Right? It's considered editorially. If you don't mind, the committee, briefly explain and we'll get to the vote. And I'd like to ask the people's deputies to prepare themselves, because the amendments are about to be confirmed. Please, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u33	This is not what Vadim Evgenovich said. The amendment prohibits the granting of free land to state, municipal property from being assigned to the permanent use of state and municipal enterprises. According to the committee, enterprises of all forms of property should have equal access to land resources, i.e. if a private enterprise should purchase it at auction to rent the land, state and municipal enterprises should do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You see, the 21st amendment to the authorship of the national deputy, Haydew, is taken into account in an editorial way. The national deputy Yvchenko requests that such a decision be made to take into account the editorial evidence in the hall. I'm betting on the 21st amendment to an editorial that is considered by the committee for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:42]] For 271 Decision taken. What's the next amendment? Who will be. Or should we go to the polls now, your esteemed colleagues? Yvchenko. Correction number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u35	Edit 31. Dear colleagues, we have 159 confirmation rights. I would very much like to ask you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, to be put to rights that protect national security and protect the land of the Ministry of Defence, please put to the vote. That's the first one. And the second. I'd like the MPs to be defined by the rights of the people's deputy Babak (694th and 1086th), that's in agrarian universities. And the People's Deputy Ivchenka, i.e. mine (657th and 1091th). Then we can talk about going to the vote after the MPs have been appointed. But I would like to put these amendments to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u36	Thank you. Vadim Evgenovich, 31th Amendment of Haida, is considered editorially by the committee. You heard the position, well, it doesn't apply at all to this amendment, as you understand. So I'm going to make a decision on the committee: I'm going to take 31 revisions of the Hades. To be confirmed, please vote. [[12:46:22]] For 270. Decision taken. Thank you. We're Vadim Eugeneovich, another one, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u37	Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u38	Repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u39	103rd. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I was going to say, first of all, yesterday was not my turn of 657 and 1091, including in agrarian colleges. And it wasn't called my 653 on the Ministry of Defense. I want to say by the transcript that you didn't allow me to protect my agenda, but the MPs did. So once again, Your Honor Head, please place these three amendments on the table so that we can proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u40	103. Amendments to Haida's authorship. It's considered editorially. At the same time, National MP Yvchenko asks that the committee's decision to take into account an editorial amendment of 103. People's deputies, please vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote, not to walk in the hall. [[12:47:48]] For 281 For 281 people's deputies. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may we proceed to the vote? Yvchenka, please. Correction number, start with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u41	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. 111 revisions. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm addressing you again. I'm asking that the hall be defined for three rights, and then we can talk about speaking to the deputies, and keep talking about voting for the law, because yesterday it wasn't called, Your Honor, these amendments. This is the 657th and 1091st People's Deputy Yvchenka for agrarian institutions and the rights of the People's Deputies, Babak 694th and 1086th. These are out of the question, but these are the issues of agrarian colleges, about Ukrainian education, about the competitiveness of a Ukrainian student in the world. All I want is for the hall to be defined, that's all. It was called editing yesterday, but we didn't get to those lines. I'm asking you to identify yourself. They will be accounted for or rejected, but there will be a position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u42	111 revision of the Haida authorship. It's partially accounted for. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Yvchenko, he insists that such a decision be made by the committee for confirmation. I'm putting the 11th amendment in the edition, which is partially taken into account, on confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:49:45.]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you, Vadim Evgenovich. Please, come on. Another one, huh? Please, Vadim Evgenovich, another amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u43	Two minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u44	Two minutes instead of yours?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u45	Instead of 157 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u46	Look, it can't be like that, or they'll burn like everybody else.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u47	I'm asking for two minutes to perform instead of my rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u48	Vadim Evgenovich, 2 minutes. Dear colleagues, let me ask you, can we proceed to the vote afterwards? Guys, one second, then. I can't just give you two minutes. Let's think about something. Please, 2 minutes, Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, I wanted to address you because the bill is not perfect. Unfortunately, when we start looking at fragments, for example, in the land of the Ministry of Defense, so in the substantial conditions of those lands that will be leased by the Ministry of Defense, there will be no, for example, that during war, war or some extraordinary situation in the country, there will be no possibility for a customer, in the Ministry of Defence, to break the relevant contracts. I'm sure it's a matter of national security, so during the war there's a chance in the Ministry of Defense to break up legally, I'm not talking about other things. Second, colleagues, the imperfections of this law in the following. We must be as competitive today as possible in the world. We agree with you on our European legislation in various fields. Our agronomists, our mechanics, they have to find a decent job. Colleagues, when they don't have land and they're hand-in-hand in Kabmin, and so on, it's not a solution to the question, because sooner or later this land will be out of agrarian institutions. And the next thing you know, colleagues, if you're talking about strategy at all or renting, think about people for thousands of people who do. Tens of thousands, hundreds who have lost the opportunity to take land for themselves during the breakup. Colleagues, these lands will be transferred through ProZorro or other lease mechanisms and people, agrarian holdings will provide colossal costs. Thus, we will deprive farmers and peasants of access to the land, and the peasants will not be able to have a drink. That's the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, look, I have a letter from Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko and Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, a large number of amendments, but I understand that there is this potential: Sergey Vladislavovich 3 minutes, Julia Volodymyrna 10 minutes and then we vote. Did I get that right? Please, who's first? Sergey Vladislavovich, right? Julia Volodymyrna after that. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, I'm taking down the confirmation papers I filed for a brief statement, where I'm going to try to explain my position, including on how this issue was resolved earlier. There is no doubt that corruption must be overcome in the agrarian Academy of Sciences. Everyone knows that, but how do you get over it? You can fight it the way you did in this bill, and you can do it the way you did in the early 2000s, when about 140,000 people got pies at the expense of land belonging to businesses, factories, factories. This is true of industrial regions. I remember very well the time when a bill was passed on which land owned by industrial enterprises was finally sold out and tens of thousands of people received their rations, which they are now successfully using as small farmers or renting them, receiving the pie directly from larger land owners, the same farmers. Unfortunately, this bill foresees only one system -- it's actually a substitute for permanent rent or sub-rent. Which precludes the transfer and destruction of land among those who have not received it. Who is it to you to understand, in rural areas. First of all, social infrastructure workers, the same doctors we greeted today, the same teachers we didn't get when we were burning these lands. Why does this bill rule out the possibility that they could be given just because they were disintegrated? The second category is those that, according to President Prashenko's decree and according to President Zelensky's decree, should get their legal lands, these are participants in the ATO or the Force of Special Operations. In fact, this bill does not allow these lands to be transferred to them by private property, nor any rental or sub-rent. And that's why the changes I've been making to confirm it are exactly what regulates it. So I think this bill should address the key issue: what is constant use, what is private land ownership, and what is rental and sub-borand. That's why I insisted on this. And I want everyone to vote consciously when they realize that unfortunately, the hydra of corruption at the Agrarian Academy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u52	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, 10 minutes. And after that. Julius Volodymyrically, if you please. From here? Okay. Alexander, give Julia Volodymyrn a chance. You stay here then. Ten minutes, Julia Volodymyr. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u53	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. This is about a bill that is now going to vote in general, this is Bill 7588. First of all, I want to talk about this bill not with Parliament, because it doesn't make any sense. There are enough votes in this parliament today to take away anything in Ukraine and put it in corrupt hands. This is what this Parliament has been doing all these years, including years of war. I want to address the Ukrainians now. And I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that all of us, with the information capabilities of the Fatherland, have now brought back the essence of this bill, 7588 that they want to adopt right now. You and I have a law on the sale of agricultural land under the promise of senior heads of state, less than one million hectares of land in state ownership. These are the best countries in Ukraine – agriculture. This is the best thing that we have out of 42 million fertile lands, almost 1 million hectares, where the state can do the right selection work and actually work in agrarian science, because Ukraine, which has 42 million hectares of land, can't stop agrarian science. The other one. These are the gold lands that are also present today in the use of educational institutions that provide education to our agrarians. The European Union has a special convention that the European Union does not accept diplomas if agrarian students and agrarian unions provide education to students without land on which they can practice. So, part of this state land is now in education. Part of the land that you now want to vote on belongs to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, where they grow what is necessary for the army: vegetables, all we need to do is provide our military. This law steals these lands from the army. Of course, because five and six times the cost of vegetables should be purchased through corrupt models rather than cultivated on the land of the Ministry of Defence. They're being taken away. This law also takes land from our military, our heroes. Let me explain why. Because there's a point. Section X, paragraph 27, of this “Transitional Regulations” of the Ukraine Earth Code prohibits, attention, free transfer to the military of agricultural land. Please tell me, who gives you the right to those people who are now protecting our land to take away even the opportunity to get this land for free farming? That's what you're doing right now. So this law is the last million hectares of state land that performs the most important functions for our country, and including being an untouchable reserve for the food security of the state, you're also taking away without any kind of trade, tenders, auctions, whatever 50 years you're handing over to the authorities for corruption, taking them to the students, to the military, so that they can actually earn their criminal money, criminal money, because you're taking the land of the state. That's what you do with the law. But this law I urge not to look separately, this law needs to be considered in the system. When the country was deceived and told that they were voting on the Medical Cannabis Act, and it's not really about the medical cannabis, it's about growing, without restriction, in Ukraine, narcotic marijuana, processing, implementing it through private structures, it's a complex, it's a second component, where a million hectares are taken from our children who are learning, in our military, in our science. And I'm practically convinced that because of a very simple corruption procedure in government, these countries will be able to grow drugs. That's why you're voting today. How do they cover this up? They cover up corruption at the Academy of Sciences, at educational institutions, at corruption in the army, and all these lands. By the way, here and the land of the penitentiary system are being taken away, where the prisoners are being cultivated with vegetables, covered by corruption in all these organs that the Academy of Sciences corruptly deposits this land, the educational establishments elsewhere give the land away and so forth. Dear friends, it's just like the name "medical cannabis" covered up the transformation of Ukraine into a drug plantation inside Europe. Similarly, corruption now covers the removal of the last million hectares of land into the state. Do you know what you should do? You've been in power for four years, headed by your President, I have a question for you, in four years, why corruption at the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, why corruption in educational institutions in the use of land, why corruption in the army in the use of this land? Please explain to me, if there's corruption with the land, how do we eliminate the Academy of Sciences, education, the penitentiary system, eliminate the army to steal the land? And when they talk about government corruption when they talk about corruption in the President's Administration, in Parliament, you have to dissolve these organs, right? Because it is impossible to fight corruption? Is that what you're doing right now, because you, your team, have in four years developed corruption at the Academy of Sciences, have to take the land to science? And you don't have to reform this work, reshape it, make science a science, not a corruption nest, during your rule. And normal, absolutely legal and not corrupt, on the land of Ukraine, the Academy of Sciences to develop science, not corruption, it's your responsibility, you've led to that. And so, of course, I'm now addressing every MP who's going to press this button, you've already made a lot of decisions against the State of Ukraine, and now you're going to take another one. Do you know how clever this law is? Just like you did with Energoat, like you did with NAK Naftogaz, with Ucroborprom, you change the word "state enterprise" by law to stockholder society and take away its resources from the state, and then in the shadow sphere you manage them. That's what you're doing. And this is your responsibility and your corruption. None of the people of Ukraine has given you the right to change the name "state enterprise" to "stockholder society" and to transfer it to corruption-based corrupts by your corrupt government. And so this law will deprive Ukraine of the right to conduct agrarian science, to conduct agrarian education, to feed the army, to give free land to our soldiers when they return from the front with victory. Not even the penitentiary system will be able to grow its vegetables, and above all, the state will no longer influence its food system, its food balance, and in general what it represents itself in the agrarian global distribution of labor. I want to go to the Ukrainians right now: you know, the war is covered up by mega-corruption. By war, here in this Parliament, most cover the selection of all resources in the state of Ukraine. By war, they cover up violations of all regulations and destroy parliamentaryism by covering up war. I'm asking every MP who's going to press the button right now, don't be a part of this crime, and don't make Ukraine a marginal that doesn't have any resources to pick up Ukraine after victory. Think of those who give their lives for Ukraine, and you give it up and sell it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. No one else has to make any adjustments. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear friends, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the efficiency of land use by individuals and entities of the State sector of the economy (registration No. 7588). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:07:36]] For 258. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. Next question, dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, on July 25, 2023, a statement came before the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the National Deputy of Ukraine Aristov Juryovich on the submission of parliamentary powers, pursuant to article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, and that is why we are moving to the consideration of Bill 9530. The Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered the application. For this reason, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has registered a corresponding bill for Registration Order 9530. I'm voting on a proposal to discuss the short-term issue. Please vote. [[13:08:44]] For 284 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, right away: two in favor, two in favour? Can we vote? We can vote, right? Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. In paragraph 1 of Part Two and.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u55	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u56	So I asked Irina Volodymyrna three times. Then write it down: two in, two in, two in. I asked you three times. There's this thing -- it's an earpiece, it's better to hear it if you put it on your ear. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u57	Please pass the word to my colleague Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u58	Dear Ukrainians, well, with this deputy, it's clear. Our faction will support the removal of his parliamentary mandate, but we need to talk more about problems. Just four years ago, elections took place to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and for the first time in Ukrainian history, all power was given to the majority, and they concentrated all the power in one hand, which promised that new faces would come, with new political rules, with a new political culture. And what do we really see? The person who headed the key committee in Parliament has been silently observing the budget for the big construction rather than preparing for war. And what we see today is that at a time when MPs, even the silrad, are being rad because, once again, new faces have abused their right to go abroad, they have banned going even with a volunteer mission abroad. Someone's allowed that. And that's why we want to talk about the rules today. Why, for over a year and a half, Poroshenko was banned from going to the official delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Maybe because a year ago they didn't want to go to NATO and they had to be eliminated, you know, in a delegation of NATO advocates. Why were the official representatives of our faction, Alexia Hotcharenko, in the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, not allowed to go on official missions today when the Council of Europe discussed future elections in wartime conditions? And at that time, those who have a mandate other than European Solidarity have rules like that. So, colleagues, we have to go back to Parliament's subjectivity and speak out against any anti-constitutional norms that women, village council deputies today, do not release abroad, and those who abuse the MP's mandate have to get rid of it. That's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u59	Please, Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u60	I'd like to give it to Maxim Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u61	Please, Maxim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u62	There's this Ukrainian tradition: you're resting in the Maldives -- you're losing everything, you're losing power. So in this case, if the National MP doesn't want to be the National Deputy of Ukraine and wants to be the People's Deputy of the Maldives, we vote in favour. Let's give it a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! They're all done. Let's move on to making a decision. Question completed. Therefore, according to article 81, part two, part two, and part four, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, I am voting for the whole draft Decree (Registration No. 9530) on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Aristov Jurijovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:23]] For the 320. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Dear colleagues! Next question. In accordance with article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, paragraph 12, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be released from office of the Ministers of Ukraine. On July 21, 2023, Tkachenko Alexander Vladislavovic submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application requesting his release from office as Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. Dear colleagues! So I'm going to make an offer to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[13:14:27]] For 258. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. We agreed that Alexander Vladislavovich Tkachenko – two minutes, then from the committee – two minutes, then two minutes, and two minutes, against, and we vote. Please give the word to Alexander Vladislavovich. Please. Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine Alexander Vladislavovich Tkachenko Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u64	Good afternoon, colleagues! It's good to see you here. He asked the secretariat to send you an e-mail of his report as well as a view of the transformation of culture by 2033, so I will not hold you back. I want to say three things that matter. The first is about culture. Of course, it is easy to say, as some colleagues say, that culture does not need money in wartime. But then the question is, are we fighting for culture, are we protecting it or not? That's why culture and drones are important, because culture is what unites us, culture is about our identity. [[Applause]] And so are cultural projects. I very much ask you to support them further. During the war, thousands of performances by our cultural actors, hundreds of exhibitions. And I think it's necessary, both during the war and during the war, to continue to build both museums and make movies and create in a broad sense that word. [[Applause]] Because financing culture is about people first and foremost about our talents, about jobs and about our economy. It hurts me to have one line of stupidity spent on drums, buckets, buzzards and museums, monuments, information war, books, movies, theaters, creative industries. And the second thing I wanted to say is the culture of dialogue. Not a culture of heath. The culture of hait, which many have adopted, is divisive. And we need to solve our problems together. And the third. I wanted to thank the forces of the country's defenses, the Supreme Council, our committee, the President, the government, and, above all, I wanted to thank those hundreds and thousands of people from the cultural and media spheres that I've met during this time. Keep them safe because they have a cultural and information shield.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u65	Thank you, Alexander Vladislavovich. Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Vladislavovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Humanities and Information Policy, Eugenia Mikhailna Krawczuk, is invited to the report. Please, Eugenia Mikhailvna. After that, two against, two against, we make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u66	Colleagues, on July 26, 2023, the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy considered Tkachenka Alexandr Vladislavovich’s application to resign as Minister of Culture and Information Policy. At the meeting we heard a detailed report from the minister, and he was also sent to you by e-mail. And we remembered the work during that time. That's three years. It's also the time of the cod, and it's the time of the full-scale invasion. And there's something to remember about the good. We were passed the Law on Support for Culture, Creative Industries during the pandemic, a 7 percent positive cultural VAT. We got Laura back, we set up a disinformation center together and a filter media literacy project. Think of the support: books, theaters, and theaters were first. This is what the Ukrainians chose. The President's Big Restoration project. I very much hope that after the victory we will return to him. It is the Institute of Books, the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, the Institute of Memory, and many other institutions and artists that will work and work. This is an effort on the international front. It's cooperation with UNESCO, and here we have to push and continue. And there's going to be a fund from donor funds that will finance, including the area of heritage restoration. As a result of the discussion, the committee by majority did not support the statement and recommended that the Parliament decide on the application by voting at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to add that, of course, there will be enough votes for this resignation. I'll vote yes, too. The minister completes his office. We want to thank the minister for his work. [[Applause]] And finally. If anyone thinks that culture is irrelevant, see what the Russians do when they enter and occupy, throw away a flag, throw away a Ukrainian book, and destroy Ukrainian monuments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, let's move in, ask the MPs and groups to sign up: two-for-two-again. Please sign up. Please give the word to Osadchuku Andri Petrovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u68	Please give the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u69	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind all the national deputies present in this room that the government, the minister, is accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Sadly, almost none of our disfellowshipped ministers reported. Sadly, almost every minister did not even come to this room. I want to thank you today for having a minister present in this room, whose resignation we are now voting on. But we did not hear the report. Yes, there is a committee, yes, there is a report. But that is exactly what should be discussed in the hall. The specifics that are done, what needs to be done, what needs to continue. Because not everything that was done was wrong. And some things need further work and work. And that's the institutional memory. This is our responsibility as a parliament: not just to assign and postpone, not just to criticize or thank, but to analyze, control. And of course, the primary responsibility of the profile committee is not only his but also his sessional room. So, my fellow Members, I would like to remind everyone that we have registered Bill 3195, the first reading voted in 2020. Until the second reading, they cannot bring it into the agenda for consideration. This is a bill that obliges, obliges and regulates each minister’s report during retirement because the Supreme Council cannot simply say whether to leave or enter. The Supreme Council can't just say thank you for leaving. The Supreme Council is responsible for control. The Supreme Council is responsible for the activities of those appointed and those put away. So let's go back to this bill, 3195. Let's regulate the clear report essentially, not the speeches like it or not like it. It is Parliament's responsibility not to make any further mistakes like many.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u71	Please, Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich, "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u72	Please pass the word to Mikiti Poturay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u73	Mikita Ruslanovich Poturayev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen to me carefully. First of all, I want to thank the members of our committee, because when we look at the question of the resignation of the Minister of Culture and Information Policy, we had a completely calm, unpoliticized, professional discussion. Representatives of one of the opposition forces raised their questions, their claims, and they had every right to do so. But if we supported the resignation on the committee, it would mean that we would agree that a telophone during the war is unnecessary, and we think it's necessary. We would agree that the cost of supporting Ukrainian cinema, filmmaking, not TV shows, not any oligarchic channels, but the overall cost of film production is unnecessary, and we think it's necessary. We would agree with the pressure of the people, I can't even call it a public society that says no, we don't have to finance the museum, and we think we should. We would agree that no, we should not finance the Ukrainian book, and we feel that we should. No, we don't need to finance Ukrainian culture, and we think we should. And that's why we voted against it. But right now, I urge you, colleagues, whatever your mood is, to support the statement of the Minister of Culture and Information Policy and allow him to show himself in other cultural projects. I understand that after some opposition speech, you may not even want to do so. I know that many of you don't want to vote for this resignation right now, and it can only get stronger. But I still ask you to show political wisdom, consideration and allow Alexander Vladislavovich Tkachenka to implement herself on the new scene and, of course, thank him, as I thank you now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u75	The word is given to Taras Ivanovich Batenka, a group of "For the Future" parties. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Irina Konstankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u77	Irina Miroslavna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u78	Honorable Society, Honorable People’s Deputies! I would also like to thank Minister Tkachenka that his statement will move us to talk about culture today. We haven't talked about culture and culture in a long time since the war. This is a very important conversation. And I hope that we're going to have to talk about this because this is about our horizons, our perspectives and our future, it's about what we're fighting for, it's about why we stand for Ukraine. And I want to thank the Minister for not losing what we actually call the humanitarian aura of Ukraine over the past three years. I'm not by chance today with a portrait of the forest of Ukraine, because in our years of independence we've succeeded in a great feat, we've completed the full edition of the 14th volume of the forest of Ukraine. This is the first time in years that Ukraine has existed. And many other important things have been done during this time. And maybe you really had to prepare a full report today, not for 10 minutes, but for more time, to figure out what the system of coordinates of Ukrainian culture is and what makes it an equivalency in the world. This is another important aspect that has been done, more specifically the beginning of work, is the international dimension of Ukrainian culture. And we need to work not only on culture within Ukraine, but we need to take care of representation, about Ukraine's vision in the world. And that's not what we're doing. So in the context of the coming fiscal year, I call for increased funding for culture, because it is scarce. We finance many other areas of the humanitarian sphere several times rather than culture. Remember, culture is ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u79	Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u80	Please pass the word to the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u81	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u82	I'm sorry, but I don't know why I should thank Mr. Secretary. Maybe behind closed independent television channels. Maybe it's the Telemaraphone that washes people's brains. In principle, I would, perhaps, thank you, although I realize it's not him, he's a screw in this system, where he obediently follows instructions on the actual destruction of the cultural sphere. Yes, the minister says that culture is a movie, but my understanding of culture is the Shadows that fights on the front, and the Minister's understanding of steaming. So we have a completely different view of this culture. You know, my mom's in school, in the library, and she's doing what's writing Russian books, translated or published in Russian. And it's going to be empty because there's no Ukrainian books there, because no one's going to spend money on it. I'm coming into this room and I'm looking at the agenda. And I am looking at when the laws banning the activities of the Russian church in Ukraine will appear. But they do not appear there. We wrote down the next day at the end not to vote. Yes, this is a great achievement that we have prayed for Mazep in the sacred Ukrainian laureate for the first time in 30 years. But unless, at the time of the full-scale invasion, this fifth column, this sect is still working in Ukraine and taking arms against Ukrainian fighters or being responsible for the minister and so is his. Obviously not just him, but all of you, who make up the majority and who does not bring these questions into the hall. We can talk about the Derkino, who was so unfairly taken out of the Ministry, and in that the minister was right -- it doesn't work. All it does is beat the independent Center of Debt. In fact, all the achievements that were in culture from 2014 to 2019 are not developing, almost everything is destroyed. There's a little bit left. Maybe thank you for that. But I don't know whether to thank the Minister or civil society, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u83	Dear colleagues. "Paternality" yet, huh? One minute. Who's it gonna be? Puppy, huh? Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u84	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Your Honor, it's not easy. Dear colleagues, it's not a simple question. First, about culture here, really, there's a separate discussion about culture. The series on the Pompous? Well, it's definitely not a culture, everyone understands that. The question of the museum? Unfortunately, what I'm saying is that if you have a pipe running in your house, holes in your windows, debts are huge for heat, an old boiler, no road, no house built, you're fighting with your neighbors, in this situation you're spending a lot of money on your ancestors' memorial? Well, I'm sorry, this is a very controversial question. Here is the issue of budget efficiency in general. And I want to say very briefly, I don't have as many questions for the minister as I do for the budget committee, for the minister of finance, for all of us. It's just that you and I took 574 million dollars out of the budget, and then we found an extreme. So it's a systemic problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, part one of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine puts to the vote the issue of the release of Tkachenk Alexander Vladislavovich from the office of the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine for his application for release. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:31:27]] For 321 Decision taken. I'm asking the profile committee, along with the Apparatus, to issue a decision as a result of our decision. Show the factions, please. Thank you, colleagues. Thank you, Alexander Vladislavovich. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next question is the draft Law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the military status in Ukraine (registration number 9532). Dear colleagues, can we vote this out without discussion? So, come on, I'm making an offer to take it all the way. Irina Volodymyrna! All right, then, if we discuss it, then we'll follow the program. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 31, of the Constitution of Ukraine, are under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve the Presidential Decree on the introduction of martial law in Ukraine. According to paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85, paragraph 20 of the first part of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of the State of War, the President of Ukraine introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 9532) on the approval of the President's decree on the continuation of the military status in Ukraine, the relevant materials were given to you. In accordance with article 189 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is dealt with by the Supreme Council without voting on its inclusion in the agenda, under the procedure of the first reading and adoption of the law as a whole. At the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we agreed to consider this issue without discussion, but we are now in discussion, so let us move to making a decision. So if you'll excuse me, then let's move on to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[13:33:26]] For 298 Decision taken. Please sign up: two in, two in, against, the factions that want to speak. Fedia Sofia Romanovna faction "European Solidarity", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u86	Please pass the word to my colleague Irina Frez.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u87	Please, Irina Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the tenth year is going on, it's the 10th year. And I'm sure, after a large-scale invasion on February 24, 2022, no one in this room has any doubt that a dot in this war should be placed alone. And this dot is called the victory of Ukraine. But at the same time, the fighting spirit and motivation saved Kyiv from the environment. Most of our territories that are being liberated today have been saved by the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We should be with you tirelessly every day thanking our Armed Forces of Ukraine, which demonstrate an incredible spirit and incredible strength and courage. What do we have now? On the one hand, it is the commitment of our Armed Forces of Ukraine, it is the responsibility of future generations of our Armed Forces of Ukraine, it is the commitment of the State of Ukraine. Which opposes the irresponsibility, helplessness, and inaction of the Ministry of Defence, where at first 33 billion mice were eaten on contracts for combat kits that have not yet been received, and on the other hand, we have a situation with you when we are purchasing unquality tournaments, inadequate medical kits that cost our defenders and protectors their lives. We have to put this in order. And so, "European Solidarity" will support this draft Decision, because we believe that our victory must be more than anything. But our responsibility to our defenders is worth far more than just clicking on buttons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u89	Please, Ruššin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u90	I beg you, Samantha Bobrowski, to pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u91	Please, Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u92	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, colleagues, I don't know how there is besides the Maldives as far as you travel in Ukraine, starting with the Sumstina, Chernigovishte, Kharkish, Hersonish, Clothing and Carpathian, including how different the dynamics in the country, how it lives in different literally different ways. Starting with the local budget accounts, where do these budgets go? I'm very sorry that in most of these budgets, the locals who today receive VAT from military units spend their money on pukka, in November-December months macaroni for 170 bracelets for schools and so on and so forth. And I'd like to ask everyone who represents their major districts today to offer your local self-government authorities to support the purchase, particularly the drones for those military units that need it, in exchange for the funds, the millions of funds that go into those local budgets. But I'd like to say something else, to focus on, in principle, the work of the territorial assembly centers, the so-called military units, this is the face, this is actually the entrance to the Armed Forces, the Defense Force. And those forms and methods, starting with corruption, and it's amazing that Borisov took it in Kiev, not somewhere in the Maldives, and it finally happened. More than 20 suspects are now representatives of the TCC. What's more, if you open the news now, you'll see an Equinox military man beat his subordinate, there's a five-watt video of him bullying what's going on. So I'm going to the Ministry of Defense: to develop, and to our committee, in particular, a completely TCC reform that will change not only the name, but in its essence the form, starting with the output from the subordination of the ground forces, ending with the discussion: whether they are needed in principle under the direction of the General Staff, or maybe other people, including civilians or wounded, or women, can do this to change the way this barbarism, savagery, the flow of corruption and the simple shame that the country knows about, to the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u93	Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u94	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please pass the word to the distinguished colleague Papie Mikhail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u95	Mikhail Mikhailovich Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u96	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! In our consideration, there is now a draft law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the state of war. And speaking of this, first of all, I'm saying that our group will support this bill and propose to vote it both on the basis and on the whole at the same time. At the same time, we need today to draw the attention of all the Ukrainian national deputies to the fact that our main contribution to the victory of Ukraine over Russia is to adopt in turn those bills that apply to and implement laws that bring Ukraine closer to the accession of the European Union and those that affirm the rise in the standards of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to NATO standards. That's our priority. And that's why we're asking questions about the work schedule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we're proposing that the people's deputies of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine meet more closely here and discuss the issues and adopt the laws of Ukraine that need it. First of all, look, we need to reform the social sphere today in order to bring the European Union's standards closer to those ratified by Ukraine in the European Social Charter and other laws of Ukraine. I am grateful to Galina Mikolayevna, we are now very productive in this matter. Now we have to hand over the administration of the only social contribution to the Pension Fund, we need to create now the only social insurance fund to take care of it, reduce administration, and make sure that people don't run with government statements to get it done automatically. We still need to create all the conditions here for the Ukrainians to return, who were forced to go outside Ukraine to have a suitable, decent place to work with decent pay and with decent teaching of children. So there's a lot of work to be done. So do we.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u97	Please pass it on to Venislavski. Right? Please, the Venislav Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u98	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. Sadly, the war, which began on February 24, last year, has lasted for 1 year and 5 months. Unfortunately, this war is ongoing because some politicians, including those represented in this room, have done much to weaken our defenses substantially. I want to remind you that very many politicians present in this room have done their utmost to get those aircraft that are now launching missiles in Ukrainian territory into the hands of our enemy today. I remind everyone that today, many politicians who talk about the need to consolidate efforts have done their utmost to weaken our defenses, and even after the start of the war of 2014, by 2019 many of the weapons have been destroyed by the consistent position of the Kremlin agents. So, of course, what we have to do today is support the legal regime of the state of war, continue it for another 90 days, is because of our consolidated position in the leadership of the President, who is doing everything he can to ensure that our country finally gains that independence and defeats the enemy that is attacking us. I therefore call on everyone to support the President's decision and to vote in favour of the continuation of the legal regime of martial law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, please, Krulko Ivanovich - 1 minute. And we vote, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u100	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, the "Fatherland" faction, as on the first day of Russia's full-scale invasion into Ukraine, supported the introduction of the state of war, just as unanimously, and will now vote. But the war in Ukraine has been going on since 2014. War has been going on ever since. And we need to understand that at that time Ukrainian military, our defenders, were killed. We will, of course, continue the state of war, we believe in victory, we pray for every Ukrainian soldier who protects our nation. And I would like to thank now, today, every Ukrainian soldier, every volunteer, every one who stands on the front and gives us the opportunity to work in this room and work in Ukraine. Let us pray for those who are not. And let us thank those who are alive. Return with the shield, not the shield. And let Ukraine win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u101	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! According to paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 189, 190 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, article 5 of the Law on the Legal regime of the State of War, the draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 9532) on the approval of the Decree of the President of Ukraine on the continuation of the period of military status in Ukraine is adopted. I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:44:27]] For 347 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Beautiful. Great unity. Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, next question 9533. This is a bill approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the general mobilization period. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 31, of the Constitution of Ukraine, are under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve the President’s Decree on General Mobilization. According to paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85, paragraph 20 of the first part of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Preparation and Mobilization, the President of Ukraine introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law registration number 9533 on the approval of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Continuation of General Mobilization. You have been provided with the appropriate materials. In accordance with article 189 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is dealt with by the Supreme Council without voting on its inclusion in the agenda in the first reading and adoption of the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, we can do without it. Then I would like to vote in favour of the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. [[13:45:55]] For 297 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two in favor, two in favor. And while you're writing down, let me also invite the representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich for a brief report on this law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u102	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The President of Ukraine, in full compliance with his constitutional powers, has submitted a draft law on the approval of the President's decree on general mobilization to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The President's First Order on Global Mobilization was approved in this Hall on February 24, last year, when a large-scale war began. Today, unfortunately, we have too much to mobilize because the war has not ended and, unfortunately, the enemy is still in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. So I urge on behalf of the President all to support the President's Order on Universal Mobilization, the Continuation of General Mobilization, and to support the law passed by the President to approve this decree. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u103	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, two have signed up. This is Fedina Sofia Romanovna. Please. It's a faction of European Solidarity. And then there's The Servant of the People, and we vote. Sophia Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u104	Now we have to continue the mobilization for the Ukrainians. But beyond all factors, it is not only Moscow's aggression that we must now look for those who will defend the state. And one of the first reasons for all of this is that I understand so much that the sovereigns have not yet come, that the war has been going on since February 2014. And I now apologize to the families of the victims, the victims, the internally displaced persons from 2014 to 2022, whom you don't want to see or know. Because you've all been looking into Putin's eyes and telling them what they're going to be in May. One second. As long as we have a fifth warning column in the hall, what are the normal results we can talk about? They're pouring out anything you can pour. What's the motivation for our fighters? But no, the OPCW is now very good at voting on the monarchies and together it's not known what they're doing, but it's not exactly working to win the Ukrainian state. And I would also like to remind you that the fact that some people here in this room were wearing green shirts doesn't mean that you were at war and that you know what you're now at the front. And I'll remind you that since 2019 rocket programs have been stopped, the army has been reduced by 100,000, there has been persecution of veterans, volunteers, combat generals, everything that can be done just to weaken the Ukrainian state. And yes, it is now necessary to mobilize, but it is needed because of motivation! And motivation comes from trust in a state where every fighter's life is valued, where they don't waste money in the ministries of defense, culture, and in all other areas where they don't walk abroad, and where they provide the army with all kinds of means possible. Apologies for the fallen heroes now!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u105	The brother-in-law gives it to Bujanski. Do I get it right? Please, Maxim Arkadyovich. From the rostrum. Dear colleagues, after the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I could mention a lot of unpleasant people who have been pushing and telling people in the past. But I would like to ask everyone to point out that it is not in our country’s favor when we are at war, when we discuss such an important topic as the lengthening of mobilization, we use this time for political pyar, to find out what our relationship is. It's not patriotism! I'm sorry, Mrs. Sofia. It's not patriotism. It's a speculation on patriotism. So I would ask you not to vote, but to return to the state in which we have been working for the past and a half years since the beginning of the full-scale invasion, the war that has been going on since February 14. Let us respect all those who are at war now, all those who are waiting for them at home, all those who have died for our Fatherland. And to keep this in mind by speaking out of this rostrum without using it for political games and attacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, you know, before we go to the vote, I just want to say that there really is some wisdom in the Conciliation Council that recommends some issues to speak without discussion, because sometimes it's better to chew than to speak. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Who else? You didn't just sign up. Then one minute, I'm sorry, one minute Sofia Bobrovska and then we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u108	Samantha Bobrowski. Thank you. The Voice faction. Turning to the topic of mobilization and, in fact, the continuation of the state of war, and the TCC, I would like to highlight work, including VLC. I'm very sorry when the officials of the department of profile talk about the level of corruption that is superfluous, sometimes in certain areas it's only 1 percent. I don't know what areas these people are in, but those people who touch the way they go through the V.V.C. are able to go through the V.C.C. with one kidney, with one oncology, with multiple sclerosis and so on, but they're all fit to serve in the Armed Forces, so I have a question not only about the number, but also about the quality of the people who then, including the elite special forces, formed the task. It's unacceptable things, absolutely absurd, that carry a huge rope after the procedures of liberation from the forces of defense. So I would like to draw attention to this, including the General Staff, and finally in a year and a half, to correct this business situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u109	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. According to paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 189, 190 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine put to the vote for adoption, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ukrainian Law, registration number 9533, on the approval of the Presidential Decree on the continuation of the general mobilization period. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:53:32]] For 334 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Let's see the factions. Thank you. Excuse me. Dear colleagues, a break has come with a replacement for the performance. Three minutes, Cabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Then we move on. Next, Euro-integration laws. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! Renovation and construction of stadiums for tens of millions of dollars, cleaning of airports that do not function, for tens of millions of dollars, buying drums, sheltering pans, buying food at excessive prices in shelter, and in incorruptible points, are small examples of situations that have caused indignation in societies in recent weeks in connection with very often unfounded and sometimes potentially corrupt purchases at government costs that have not simply caused outrage, but very often and furious. Yes, I understand that not all these purchases are necessary. Perhaps some of these cases are really well - founded. We need to investigate. But we understand that while many Ukrainians are protecting the country, others are conscientiously paying taxes, calculating that each bracelet will go to finance security and defence, while there is another branch of Ukrainians -- government officials who think they can spend public spending at best on unnecessary things so that money doesn't burn down by the end of the year, and in the worst case, on potentially corrupt things. In view of the fact that these events have caused considerable social resonance in recent weeks, our faction initiates the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate possible violations of legislation in Ukraine during the course of public procurement. This is not going to apply to military purchases, because we already have other commissions, other bodies involved. But I want us, as the Supreme Council, to understand that we have more than just a legislative function, we have a control function. And as the body that has this control function, we also have to respond to the demand of society. So I call upon all factions to support the creation of this commission, to make nominations. I'm grateful for the factions that have already been given, that's also Fatherland, that's for the future, and the factions that have already been promised. But I'm asking you to run for office, and let's do our control function together. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u111	Thank you, Your Honor. So let's move on to the next question. We have Bill 9322. This is a draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to clarify the provisions on competitive selection of candidates for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, once again, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed on this order: 5 minutes, Heratchenko, Klimpush-Cincadze and Fedina, five minutes. Next, 5 minutes -- Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, 3 minutes -- Vlasenko, 3 minutes -- Mom, and we vote. Right, dear fellows? Please, let's get started, Hero. Then Klimpush-Cincadze, then Fedina, then Timoshenko, Vlasenko, Mama, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u112	Dear Ukrainians, "European Solidarity" welcomes the fact that Ukraine's membership in the EU and NATO has finally become a united Ukrainian idea. The European Union has set up clear 7 requirements for Ukraine to start formal negotiations on Ukraine's EU membership this year after the interim report due in October. What a surprise "European Solidarity" was when we heard from our colleagues from a monopoly, from the government, from power every day that Ukraine had completed all these seven points. And these statements were a direct surprise and a disappointment to the European Commission itself and to Brussels, because nothing has really been done but the Media Act. Among the unfulfilled paragraphs of the Constitutional Court Act. "European Solidarity" has always insisted that this supreme court should be formed independently of the Bank. So two years ago, we passed a bill that met European standards and the requirements of the Venice Commission that candidates for the post of judges of the Constitutional Court should choose according to the same pattern as judges of the Anti-Corruption Court who proved their impartiality and high professionalism. What did we see? Our bill, as always, has not been put into the agenda, but you have adopted a bill that has not been adopted either by our European partners or by the Venice Commission, and we have only heard the lie every day that everything is good. Moreover, with the violation you chose your colleague Mrs. Sougir as Judge of the Constitutional Court. This is not how the Constitutional Court is formed. And of course, when we have three conclusions today from the Venice Commission, where it points to all the intransigence of the laws you have adopted, their inadequacy to European standards, you're rewriting this bill three times. "European Solidarity" was trying to help you, more faithfully, Ukraine to adopt an expert bill through further amendments, through the registration of a new bill, where we proposed the following. To form an advisory board that will evaluate candidates for the post of Constitutional Court judges with seven experts, three of whom would represent the Ukrainian professional community of law and four represented independent experts from abroad. You've rejected it three times. What's more, it was wild to hear the lies of the vice-chairman on matters of Euro-Atlantic integration, who, without even reading the law of European Solidarity, spoke of some eight experts and so forth. That's why we have a call. First, read the laws of opposition. Second, put them in the session room. And the third and the key. Like people who have studied very well the experiences of all the countries of the Baltic and Eastern Europe that have become part of the countries. Part of the EU and NATO, we want to note that in these countries governments have played a key role in adapting legislation to the rules of the acquis, i.e. they have passed these laws to parliament, which should be adopted to carry out our homework. What do we see, dear Ukrainians, in the Ukrainian agenda? The government has completely failed this work, in today's agenda, no government bill requiring the implementation of the seven points necessary for the start of Ukraine's EU membership negotiations. The Constitutional Court Act, the bill, the non-governmental bill, the anti-monopoly legislation bill, the non-governmental bill, the return of the e-declaration, which the government is so much yelling about, is a non-governmental issue, and what does this government do? Did you send Mr. Tachchenk out for a free swim today? So the whole government has to go on a free voyage, because there are figures, skinheads, corruption and nothing about Euro-integration and Euro-Atlantic integration. And taking this opportunity, we welcome Zelenski to the NATO Summit today. But why he didn't attend the London Summit, the Madrid Summit, is a question that we understand. But there is one thing, and there is still no clear list of the requirements that our negotiators have to agree with NATO in order for Ukraine to start formal negotiations after the end of the war and this has not lasted for years. And today we demand support for amendments to the European Solidarity Act that meet the European Union acquis and the requirements of the Venice Commission. And stop teasing our partners, because then they're like kittens sticking their noses in your constant lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u113	Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, then get ready for Fedini. Ivanna Orestovna, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I am pleased that we are considering in our second reading today a bill that may finally establish an independent and clear selection procedure for the Constitutional Court judge. But let's take a little bit of a retrospective look at what we're doing. Over a year ago, we received 7 requests from the European Commission, from the European Union, for decisions on our application. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a loud statement, with the mouths of our captors, that we had mobilized as much as possible for their execution. But what did we do first? At first, without considering a bill on how to appoint judges of the Constitutional Court, we appointed a member of the Chamber, its political monopoly, to be vacant before the Constitutional Court, and only then introduced the first draft of the Act on the Change of Approach to the Selection of Judges of the Constitutional Court. And in this room we've heard calls, a beating in the chest that this bill is fully in line with the Venice Commission, it fully meets the requirements of the Venice Commission and the European Commission all worked out. And I warned from this rostrum that we would have to rewrite this bill because it had nothing to do with what was stated in the recommendations, neither the Venice Commission nor the European Commission. Nine months from now, you and I will review our decision. I think we should be ashamed. Because we could get an estimate not of 2 of the 7 positive conditions that were met, but much more. If the political language were political, the political will would be in line with the political declarations. Therefore, I urge you to avoid those approving responses when we heard the Head of Parliament loudly in January that Parliament had already done everything that was up to us to implement the seven recommendations, and then the Prime Minister of Ukraine promised the whole country that we would be in the EU in two years and also that Ukraine had not fulfilled everything. Let's look in the mirror and let's see a real footprint there, not a mythical creature that you've drawn yourself. That's why we have a historic chance today. We have a historic chance that, at the end of the year, the European Union will be able to adopt a historic decision for us to open negotiations on membership, if we are all, in reality, all seven of the terms of application. And if that doesn't happen, it will be the responsibility of a government that has not really taken any initiative today to fulfil these conditions, and this room, in particular, and, above all, the monopoly. Because looking and actually doing things are completely different things. So, colleagues, I urge you to take responsibility. I agree that today in the imperfect bill that we are about to adopt today, we still need to support it, but even in it, I note, we have not been able to do everything perfectly, as recommended by the Venice Commission in its final conclusion. And I'm sorry that we're still talking today about the fact that this bill has legal uncertainty, and legal uncertainty is something that we won't allow in the European Union. We're not going to enter the European Union. So today you can support this bill, but stop fooling people, stop pretending you're doing something. We're under the hole, we're under the magnifying glass. And if we don't do it right, if we don't do it by 120 percent, we're going to waste the chance that our heroic and glorious Armed Forces and the Defense Force of Ukraine have won for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u115	Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna. After that, Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, then Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, then Gregory Mikolaiovich Mamka, and then we go to the vote. Fedina, five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u116	You know, colleagues, we're living in a unique time when there is not just a majority in Ukraine, but there is a monopoly that gives two ways to develop the situation. On the one hand, there is a unique possibility and a unique unity of political will to solve the vast list of problems facing Ukraine, on the other hand, if not there, then there is the possibility of falling and destroying all that Ukraine already has. Unfortunately, in the situation with the Constitutional Court bill, like many others, and in the defense, we have a situation where we all have to write that they're stupid, starting with our Western partners, and saying that we're the only wise ones. And the only thing that happens is that these come out of the diagrams, the combinations, the machinations that come out of the Ukrainian state. It's the same now with this bill. Yes, he's imperfect, but at last it's an attempt to hear our Western partners and, in particular, the Venice Commission. When a faction of European Solidarity and the same Venice Commission said that the existing bill was not in place, it did not meet all the requirements, it was not compatible with the acquis communautaire, that it did not solve the problem, that it did not, on the contrary, establish the corruption basis of the formation of the Constitutional Court and maximize the influence of power on the election of the "favourable" judges of the Constitutional Court. What did we hear in this room? The partners aren't right, they're wrong, "European Solidarity" isn't right. How dare you tell us something like that? It's been a long time and as a result, we've brought Ukraine's nose into the same problem that we're now trying to solve with this imperfect bill. Yes, it finally increases the preference of foreign experts over Ukrainians, but in this bill that we now have, we also have a kind of manipulation, because maybe the most dangerous candidates, the most handy candidates we don't conduct, the authorities won't conduct, but the good candidates that aren't suitable to the authorities will also be very easy not to allow even the competition itself. But why do this? So this is what I'm asking if we're really working for the state, why these manipulations, why these hand tools to solve everything. Well, it's obviously not in the best interest of the state. This is for the purpose of keeping the handcuffs around. And I'm sorry, but really, do we have a self-sufficient parliament now? No, colleagues. But you vote like you're told and you push the green button then and what you're told. Do We Have Self - Sufficient Government? No, it's not. In fact, none of the ministers, except for one person in particular, can speak, are just as manual people who do what they're told by the Bank. Let's talk about how effective we are in the parliamentary-presidential republic, which is capable of operating mechanisms of impartiality. Yeah, there's no that, because we have one person per letter "E" in the President's Office who is totally in control of all directions and telling everyone what to do, and now even in manual order, he controls who crosses the border and who doesn't cross. And as we go back to the bill on the formation of the Constitutional Court, yes, today we will support it. It is vital that he be in such imperfect form, but the following problems will be resolved. But now I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens who know when in the middle of the night they're going to be listening to the broadcast of the Council, those carefree Ukrainian citizens, so in this room almost no one is listening, so people really don't care about the bill, and the Constitutional Court. And that's most disturbing, because I think in these realities, we should be looking at all the nuances and having the monotony, the monotony and the only desire to do something for the Ukrainian State as soon as possible, to adopt those bills and in a way that will actually bring us closer to European legislation, not to the Moscow-Federal towel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u117	Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, three minutes. Then Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko – 5 minutes. After that, Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka was three minutes old. Then one amendment to the Arachami and we vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u118	Thank you, Mr. Head. Colleagues, I don't want to prophesy, but I can tell you what will happen when this law is implemented. Ukraine will have a Constitutional Court of 18 Sougir. 18 Sugir will sit in the Constitutional Court. People who don't understand anything about constitutional law, people who are politically involved, people who can't make decisions in favor of Ukraine, and they make decisions in favor of someone they don't know. I want to remind you once again of the saying of the Ukrainian Constitution: "Government in Ukraine is carried out by the Ukrainian people." Not foreigners, not foreign counselors, not foreign counselors, no one. The Ukrainian people. Instead, we are offered a procedure in which a normal, respected professional will never enter. For who will appreciate him? Who will evaluate the candidate’s professional status before the Constitutional Court? Any boys and girls assigned to foreign projects? So we had these guys on the committee who don't even know how the state works or what the Constitution is or what professionalism is or what jurisprudence is, they just know how to repeat political mantras and screams. And you want to put people like that in the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. Why do we need foreign counselors or counselors? But I'll call you three names from this rostrum that can be appointed to the commission and elected by the judges of the Constitutional Court. Professor Mikola Ivanovich Kozubra is a completely undeniable authority, a man known by everyone in the legal environment. Victor Ivanovich Shishkin is a man of crystal honesty. Ivan Petrovich Dombrovski is the former Head of the Constitutional Court, who resigned when he was pressured to take back the power of Janukovic. Three perfectly normal people. What do you need foreign counselors for that? Of course not. You need 18 Sugir in the Constitutional Court, that's what you need, that's why this law is being passed. And I would have stopped manipulating it, by the way. Here before, three speakers spoke, told how they fought for something. Unfortunately, with all due respect to the Venice Commission, the Venice Commission for the first time in history gave three conclusions of one and the same law, and sometimes these conclusions contradicted themselves. I mean, unfortunately, there are doubts about these three conclusions of the Venice Commission. Once again, Ukraine needs a quality, professional, independent Constitutional Court. This was the composition of the Constitutional Court, the first "gold" of the Constitutional Court, when they did not elect Sugir to the Constitutional Court when they chose Kozubru, Shishkin and Dombrowski. At that time the Constitutional Court worked, then the Constitutional Court ruled in favour of the Constitution and in defence of the Constitution. That is what we need to go to, not the destruction of the legal system, which will lead to the Constitutional Court becoming nothing at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u119	The word is given to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko – 5 minutes after this, Mamka – 3 minutes, then the amendment by David Georgiyovich and we vote in favour of the bill. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u120	Dear friends, well, it's surprising what's going on in this room. Well, sometimes it's so lame that, frankly, you give a miracle. I want to remind you before tomorrow's State Day that we have a fundamental document called the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine. Anyone who hasn't studied anywhere, well, has no education, no understanding, no empty head, read this declaration, please, it will be very useful. It clearly states that this declaration proclaims Ukraine’s sovereignty as the rule of law — attention! – independence, completeness and independence of the Republic within its territory and independence and equality in external relations. Dear friends, if this is a bad call for someone, I just feel sorry for you. Then it is not clear what you are doing in this room at all. I can tell you that today you accept as law, with all due respect to our Western friends, the European Union, everyone else. What are you doing? I'll just maybe decipher it for you if you don't all have that understanding. You are now adopting a law that directly contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine. Under the Constitution of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court is set up by a third by the President, by the Congress of Judges, and by the Parliament of Ukraine. What is this law about? A completely unconstitutional body is being created, an advisory board, which gives people who are not required by the Constitution at all -- who the hell are these people, show them to me, the President, the Congress of Judges and Parliament, to indicate which candidates to appoint as the Constitutional Court. Do you understand what you're doing? You're putting a dot on Ukraine's sovereignty because the Constitutional Court is the highest judicial body in the world that can, and is obliged to control the constitutional compliance in all aspects of our lives. What you're doing right now is you're outsourcing the function of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine at all. You know what this is about, and why are such demands on Ukraine today? First of all, because they don't trust this authority. Because they think you're all unable to appoint constitutional judges together. Such a law is a spit from the President of Ukraine, who shows that this law says that you are not capable -- let us give advice to the council, which is not even known how it is born. Now tell me, please, how will you then look into the eyes of even the minimal legalists who still live and work in Ukraine outside this room? How are you gonna look them in the eye when you take that shit? Dear friends, I am very glad that there are people who cannot vote for this. I am very glad that there are people who know what is written in the British Parliament. It says that the most valuable thing there is is national interest. If your Constitutional Court, because it's not ours, yours, is going to be outsourced, you understand that the national interests of Ukraine and the Constitution of Ukraine are already in this Constitutional Court, which will be formed under this new law, there will be no absolute possibility to protect our national interests and the Constitution. There will be national interests of other nations, and perhaps large, global corporations, whatever but not the national interests of Ukraine. This law directly contradicts our Constitution. And when you're negotiating with the European Union, with the International Monetary Fund, with any international organization, learn in Poland, just start learning in our friend Poland, who is capable of protecting their national interests and which all negotiations on joining the European Union, all negotiations on any international position have been held, based solely on the Polish Constitution and their national interests. And they didn't blend the Constitution and national interests like you do now. Don't vote for it!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, please make another three minutes of Grigory Mikolaiovich Mama. Then the amendment will be from Arahamaia, then two more minutes from the committee and we will vote. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u122	Honorable National Deputies, or.. What is the basic Law for the life of the State and the citizens? The Constitution. It guarantees both the rights and obligations of every Ukrainian citizen. The findings of the Venice Commission and international experts said that we have the best Constitution. It's only a small one left, just to stick to it. We're going to have a judge and a qualified person who knows the specifics of constitutional law and is going to be chosen by the Advisory Group. It's a counseling group that. The Venice Commission recommends seven because it uses a mathematical way of calculating the voice, and we say six. Imagine, six, three, three, negative. Who won? What does the Advisory Group document or recommend? A different model was built in the law, but the mathematical approach remained that a more important vote was the vote of a candidate in the Advisory Group on an international partner. I'm noting that three representatives, which voice is more important, first or third? That's not what you're saying. And I'm still paying attention to my changes that stood there, that were rejected at the committee meeting, and I'm paying attention to the quality of those candidates who are going to join the Advisory Group. If a candidate from the Supreme Council, we can listen to him, give him a statement, give a proper assessment of his backgrain, then international partners to the Advisory Group who will be giving? Notice that we have a methodology and a schematic, they're provided by organizations. What are these organizations? We will support this bill only on one condition that it is included in the Euro-Integration Act. But in fact it is necessary to answer to both the committee manager and the authors who submitted it and the Cabinet of Ministers, that if they are to choose the judges of the Constitutional Court forever, it is necessary to go out or form a mandate and mandate, or take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask the National MP Maslov, head of the committee, to take your place, because now there's going to be a single amendment, an important understanding of the committee. After that, before the vote, a statement was made by the Committee on European Integration. Please, Arahami David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u124	Good afternoon, colleagues. I've got a confirmation amendment, number 422. There have been observations from the legal authorities regarding the effect of this amendment in time. This does not affect the content of the bill, our commitments to the European Union, so I ask you not to vote in order to break this bill and to regulate the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u125	What is the position of the committee? Please, Denise Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u126	Thank you, colleagues. The committee takes this bill into account, but there is really a point made by the Chief Legal Authority. And this right does not apply at all to the order of the selection of the judges of the Constitutional Court, the subject matter of this law. The General Legal Office has made observations on the correctness of the formulation in order to be clear about the application of laws in time. But it doesn't apply to this bill, so, you know, as we say, the logic is that this amendment might not be supported right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u127	Thank you, Denise Vejacheslavovich. Dear colleagues, 422 amendments, she is the author of Denis Vejacheslavovich Maslova, the committee. At the same time, David Georgiyovich Arahamaiah says that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, this is committee, I'm sorry. It's a committee amendment. But David Georgiyovich Arahami asks for such an amendment and a decision by the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] The amendment that a judge of the Constitutional Court may apply for retirement for an internship in the capacity of a judge of the Constitutional Court for at least 7 years, yes. So there's a proposal to make the 422nd amendment for confirmation. Please vote for this amendment. Arachami asks her not to vote. Please. [[14:26:54]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like two minutes away from the committee. Please, Ivana Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze. And then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u128	I thank you for this opportunity to convey the position of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine into the European Union. As a result of the second reading of the bill, the committee adopted a conclusion that the bill does not conflict with Ukraine's international legal obligations in the field of European integration, it will contribute to the implementation of one of the seven recommendations of the European Commission on the adoption of legislation on the procedure for the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court and will take into account the recommendations made by the Venice Commission in my last conclusion of June 10, 2023. At the same time, the bill contains positions that do not meet the principle of legal certainty and may cause the objective to be achieved with regard to the establishment of a transparent procedure for the selection of candidates for the appointment of judges of the CSC, namely: it gives wide discretion to the Competition Commission, the Council of Judges and the Committee, which will examine the documents submitted by candidates for judicial office of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In the approval concerning such a person, the decision to admit or refuse admission to competitive selection for failure to correct errors or irregularities in the documents depends on the nature and content of such documents (and this is a quote). I ask you, colleagues, to take this decision of the committee into account when you vote. And I would also like to draw the attention of the Presidency of the Supreme Council to the fact that the Committee has decided that this bill is aimed at fulfilling our international legal obligations in the field of European integration, and should accordingly be considered with this flag, which, unfortunately, is to those bills that are not always, in fact, aimed at doing so. I would therefore like to take this into account when preparing the agenda for the next meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u129	Denis Vejeslavovich, take your place. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. And while Dennis Viacheslavovich, one minute, asked for answers to comments that were not to be given to each one. One minute. And then we vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u130	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Unfortunately, I only have one minute to answer everything, so I'm very short. Colleagues, I will answer with a quote from the Venice Commission's conclusion on this bill of June 10th. Paragraph 39, attention. "Despite the aggressive war of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, Ukrainian authorities, as well as civil society, demonstrated an exemplary willingness to move forward with reforms and implement the recommendations of the Venice Commission." And 41 points. "The Commission wishes to express its satisfaction with the constructive attitude of the Ukrainian authorities." So, colleagues, there is the position of the Venice Commission on this bill. We vote, we follow the first recommendation of the European Commission and we open the way for a negotiating process on the accession to the European Union. We're backing it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u131	Thank you, Dennis Vejacheslavovich. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the provisions on competitive selection of candidates for office of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine (registration number 9322). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[14:31:20]] For 293 The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. Thank you, colleagues. Thank you, Denise Vejacheslavovich. I think there's another branch in front of our recommendations. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next. 9338 is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the development of areas affected by radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. I propose to include this issue in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[14:32:04]] For 285 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[14:32:25]] For 237 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, two in favor, two in favor, and we vote against it. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please give the word to Borzoi Irina The deliberate faction of the political party "Serve of the People." Please, Irina on purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u132	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u133	You won't. Thank you. Please give the word to Bondar Mikhail Leontijovick the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u134	Thank you. Please pass it on to the Prince's Santa Claus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u135	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the essence of the project, you know, it offers to significantly expand the use of alienation zones and compulsory evictions, and in particular to allow in the territory of the alienation zone to create decommissioned nuclear fuel cemeteries, allowing the Degree for the management of the alienation zone to regulate Chernobyl tourism, identify the sources of investment in the Chernobyl zone, and this source is the NAEC "Energoat". Is this necessary now? Obviously, this is a question of discussion. Is this in line with our commitment to the European Union? The bill does not conflict with Ukraine’s international obligations, but does not fully take into account the position of Directive 2013/59/EU of the European Council of 5 December 2013 on the establishment of basic safety standards for protection against threats caused by ionizing radiation and needs to be further developed to take account of these provisions. It's about setting limits on an effective radiation dose. Is there a point to this bill? Obviously the GNEU, you can see it yourself, on page 12, wrote a footnote to the bill. A large part of them are essential and need work. Furthermore, GNEU points out that at least three projects on this subject are under consideration by the Supreme Council in 2021. But for consideration by the Supreme Council, two of these projects were not presented to the government. Obviously, to vote in favour of this bill, in our view, there is no point. Because when the government makes a number of non-professional projects that are not being submitted to the hall, it raises questions about the logic of the rule of law. We'll hold on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u137	The word is given to the national deputy Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u138	Asking Timoshenko to give the word of Julius Volodymyrna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u139	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u140	Dear friends, it's the same law that all of you are adopting, it's no longer a desire, frankly, to spend energy, because it's very difficult to reach your consciousness here. Just notice what this law allows? Allows the creation of areas of special industrial use within the alienation zone. Here, the territory of special industrial use is, in principle, forever inconvenient, neither for living nor for anything else. There is a right, more faithfully so, to abolish the ban on the construction of sanatoriums, children’s rest camps. There's also a ban on the involvement of schoolchildren, students, students in any kind of work. The rules that the State guarantees in this area are also excluded, so no longer dosimetric control is required, and that is fine. I could also say that this cancels out, including the benefits, and here the third Chernobyl area is being questioned, well, you know what it is. Well, in order for you to understand, the whole incompetence of the people who introduced this bill is that, after half-life, plutonium, let's say, forms such a radioactive element as America. America, it's extremely dangerous for people and its half-life -- over seven thousand years. And it's our authority that doesn't count at all. And that means you can't do anything in these areas because America, it's water-soluble. Any plants, and you're here allowing forestry, and everything in the world that you can do, you're just going to kill people on your own incompetence. Our team is voting against this and against cancelling the third Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u141	Yes, please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, after which we will proceed to the vote. Please, Nestor Ivanovich. And I'll take care of Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u142	Thank you. My dear colleagues, unfortunately, we have survived the Chernobyl disaster, and we feel its consequences. But time is running out, and the most critical twenty - four - year period has passed. It has happened that, again, Ukraine has, unfortunately, a unique field to conduct scientific research, to use separate territories to study: and how our planet can live after such radiation damage. So we have to use and promote the use of this territory. As for the use of radioactive waste storage and spent fuel, unfortunately we have to do this, I'll be honest with you, I've always been absolutely against it. But it did happen that we do not have the opportunity to export to the country where we exported the waste fuel to storage. So we are forced, once again, to look for opportunities that are now possible for us. And this is exclusively Chernobyl. So we have this law to support in the first reading and to prepare very carefully for its adoption as a whole in preparation for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, still "Trust", Aresonkov. One minute and then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u144	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. I don't have much time to do this, so let me just say this briefly. I call on all the MPs, especially the Marjorie MPs, who live in the territory of the citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, not to vote in favour of the bill, to return it as a minimum for work. The government failed to fulfill its promises to the Chernobylites. Two weeks ago, the government promised that the social benefits would not be changed until the end of the war. Instead, the bill as a whole could be put into place by two norms that limit the social rights and benefits of black people. Don't vote, colleagues. You're going to get people's negative again. Think about what you are doing. And he needs to be worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on the development of areas affected by radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. — Registration No. 9338. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[14:41:35]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! I propose that this bill 9338 be re-readed. Vote please, Your Honor. Let's support it, let's work it out. Let's do it again. [[14:42:03]] For-160. The decision is not taken. I propose that this bill be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:42:28]] For-182 The decision is not taken. The bill is considered to be rejected. Next bill, 9346-1. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to ensure predictability of fiscal policy and increase debt sustainability. Dear colleagues! We have an agreement that there will be 3 minutes of potterenko and we immediately vote on 3 of his amendments. Next, Eugene will make 5 amendments for confirmation. And after that. Oh, I'm sorry, and five amendments to the Fatherland faction. [[N o M e s s a ……]] They'll do what? Krulce, will it be yours or will you be in receipt? Two minutes, Krulko. Two minutes, Krulko. And the Mokan is one for confirmation. Two minutes, Krulko. Now, just a minute, I'll write it down. And the Mokan is one for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u146	That's what I'm talking about. Oh, I'm sorry. On account of that, yes. That's what I'm talking about. Okay. Thank you. Dear colleagues, then let's begin. Let's have a three-minute performance. And we're voting for 3 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you and I are now considering an important bill, it's actually a budget policy strategy and a government debt. It's important that we do this. There'll be repairs, I'll tell you why they're important. But using this opportunity, I want us to talk more broadly. Where is our economic strategy? Well, it's very important for us to have a real strategy in every direction. The government debt strategy, well, that's because the IMF requires, we're finally looking at it. What about other questions? Where is the economic strategy? Where is our government after all? Doesn't anyone want to see the government in this room but me? Well, I don't get it. Why should Trudo or the Prime Minister of Spain come to us to see our government, or should anyone else? Well, it's our government! And there's a lot of questions for him. Where is the strategy for the development of the military industrial complex? Why do we watch Russia open one chain factory, the other one, these chains destroy our technology? Why do we know that Ukraine is about to be bombed by the Shahedes made in Russia? Are the Iranian Shahedes made in Russia? And in Tatarstan, there's a new huge factory called the Shahedes. Where are our Shahedes? Where are our drones that are supposed to take this Moscow and this Russian? Well, we don't have that because we don't see the strategy. Where is our strategy for addressing hybrid threats? Where is our strategy for the Moscow Church? We've got a fight for this laurel. I don't know why. But they need to be thrown out in seconds, and we need to finally consider the Moscow Church Prohibition Act in Ukraine and put a dot. Where is the cultural policy strategy? Where is the strategy that we're doing with millions of people abroad, but these are our fellow countrymen? Where is our diplomatic strategy? We still have no ambassador in India, no ambassador in Brazil -- the key countries of the world. Well, we don't want to do that. Now we don't have an ambassador in Britain, because that's what the ambassador said. They were thrown out quickly and we don't know who to appoint. Friends, that's not how the state lives. As long as we're dealing with something stupid while we don't have the key issues, we're not looking at strategy. Where is our strategy for military personnel? Once again, the sessional day -- no more questions about the military. Where's the demobilization bill after 18 months? Where is the bill on the demobilization of the first and second groups disabled, which is limited? These are all the laws that our army awaits. Where's all this? Guys, come on! Let's do strategies.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, I'll make three adjustments: 32nd, 41st, 77th. Right? You're just gonna be two, aren't you? 32rd and 41st, right? Okay. Dear colleagues, the 32nd Amendment of the Pottery, she was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:47:26]] For-65 The decision is not taken. And finally, 41 revisions of the potterenko, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:47:47]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, you have confirmation, so we'll put you at the end. Next. Who else has made adjustments? Mokan and Krulko. Please, Krulko, then Mokan. Three minutes, huh? Two minutes. Please, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u149	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, those who plan to vote in favour of this bill. I just want to tell you what happens when you vote for him. The bill foresees that now the budget changes that are being made by the people’s deputies in the order of the legislative initiative, if they do not have a positive conclusion from Minfin, they will not be considered at all. You've seen this before that Minfin as the Ministry of the Cabinet, another branch of government, would point out to Parliament that you can consider any changes to the budget and what you can't do? Moreover, dear friends, I will tell you one more thing: and you know that this Parliament has voted for 80 percent of the budget changes over the years, with the negative conclusion of the Ministry of Finance. Do you know about this? So what I'm going to say is that after this decision, if this rule goes through, we're going to find ourselves in a situation where it's going to be a gross violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the right of the national MP to legislative initiative. And no other branch of government has the right to interfere with the work of the legislative branch of power, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us not humiliate ourselves to the level of plentuse! Because, you know, as long as I'm sitting here, I feel like there's a humiliation of Parliament going on. So let’s not use our own hands to adopt the standards they do! If we are a parliament in the parliamentary-presidential republic, let's defend its interests and our right to legislative initiative is a fundamental right that a national MP has: to pass laws that should be considered here. Not that someone on the left then said that the law couldn't be considered. You can't vote for this bill with this norm. And one last thing. Let's say one more thing. A bill comes in one line, it goes into a room where four or five more special funds have been created into the budget -- is that right and normal? Why won't he create them?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Mokan Basil. What is the correction? Just say the number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u151	52.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u152	52, right? Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u153	Thank you. Colleagues, we voted at the end of last year for a very important bill, which has already become a law, to establish a national civil identity. And among other things, there have been changes to the Budget Code, where we have to technically write out this funding line for the next fiscal year. I've made the correct correction, it's now rejected. I'm asking for your support to take this into account. We will thus unlock the possibility of funding normally from the following year, both at the central and local levels, this strategic area of national security. So I ask and appeal to common sense, let's support it and count it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u154	Committee position. Please, Yuri Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, indeed, this amendment was previously rejected on the committee, but the logic in this direction is, so after further consultations we tend to think that it's worth supporting. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the amendment of Vasil Ivanovich Mokan 52nd. She's been rejected by the committee. At the same time, you've now heard that the position is something that it would be good to support. So I'm putting 52 amendments to the people's representative of Mokan into account. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:52:13]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have completed the amendments to the bill, and no one insists. There will be another five amendments to confirm, and then we vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Corrections for confirmation. It's a Southern. Start with the number, please, Nina Petrovna, from the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u157	Amendment number 5. Dear colleagues, I wanted you to treat the Budget Code as a fundamental law that defines the rules of conduct and budgeting each year. And when this bill was put into effect with a memorandum from the IMF to the memorandum, I was sure that there would be no more playing here and making any amendments, all the demands that could be made. But I was wrong, so 5 amendments are added. Why should a special fund be set up in the Budget Code to raise funds from the privatization of penal institutions? Are we going to sell all the prisons or is this a long-playing program, or why are we starting the process? Are we going to build new ones? Please explain why the Codex Budget should contain a provisional norm in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u158	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, we have been standardizing the code since 1.01.24 and we include 70 percent of the funds that will come from the privatization of the State Crime Service, the property of the State Criminal Enforcement Service, and the further redeployment of these funds to improve the material and technical base, to repair, to build new premises, to organize new productions. Why are we doing this? Colleagues, since the 21st, 21st, 22nd, 23rd years, we've already introduced similar standards into the State Budget Act for the corresponding year. We are now proposing as a formula that has proved effective to transfer this to the Budget Code of the 24th year. This will improve the socialization of those who are serving sentences, create new jobs, reduce the burden on the state budget, because the production that will be organized will generate income, and also the arrival of PFCs in local budgets from new jobs. And I want to point out, colleagues, what.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, the 5th amendment of the authorship of Cubbit is counted by committee. Eugene asks that the committee make such a decision for confirmation. I'm asking you to get ready. This is a confirmation amendment. I'll put a 5 on confirmation. Please vote. [[14:55:32]] For 230 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. Nina Petrovy, please have your next number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u161	15 revisions. Dear colleagues, you have just voted for a rule that is not the norm of the Budget Code. Well, you're just distorting all the documents that are meant to exist thoroughly in the state. And now you're explaining exactly what doesn't apply to this question. Next question. Please, please, 15 amendments, change the distribution of costs that will be spent again on your favorite road construction. A one - percent redistribution is taken from road safety and added to the construction of roads of national importance. Can you please tell me that 70 billion is not enough to be distributed? What's this 1 percent that you're making changes to the Budget Code? This distribution was planned, calculated over the years, introduced, used. What does that 1 percent give you? Why are you depraved again?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u162	The position of the 15th amendment committee, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u163	Dear colleague, we specify that from 01.01.2024, the government budget's revenue distribution is increasing from 60 per cent to 61 per cent of the corresponding cost for the development of public road networks in connection with the expansion of this direction in the area and the maintenance of state border crossings. That is, because we have increased flows of crossroads directly by road, we need additional funds to organize these facilities. This is the only thing involved. Thank you, colleagues. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the 15th amendment to the authorship of the national deputy of Salamis. She's a committee member. He asks for such a decision to be made for confirmation. I'll make the 15th confirmation amendment. Please vote. [[14:57:49]] For 214 Correction rejected. Next number of the amendment. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u165	Amendment No. 19. Dear colleagues, the fees for administrative services are now included in the local and district budgets at the place of delivery. This bill proposes to redistribute these payments to the budget. I don't understand how we can determine the redistribution right now. What's changed? Why do we take away local budgets? And what is the point of this amendment? Why are you changing the distribution again, making changes to the budget code? Do temporary standards, do this in your budget for the current year, do not make it the norm of the Budget Code, the basis of budgeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u166	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u167	Dear colleague, that's what you're talking about right now about number 18 and we're doing it for the next reason. 30 percent of the deductions from the provision of services by the main service centres of the Ministry of Internal Affairs will go to the state budget special fund for the development of these service centres. And we're also going to bring, to date, the price of these services, which will allow even 70 percent of the redistribution for local budgets to increase from 360 million to 1.9 billion. It's for local budgets. And it will give the Ministry of Internal Affairs an additional 800 million for these purposes, reduce the burden on the state budget. Thank you. Colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u168	Nina Petrovna, I want to make it clear, are you still insisting on 19 amendments? All of it. Look, let's not discuss, man asks for 19 amendments to confirm. This is an amendment to the authorship of Kubbit Yuri Mikhailovich. She's a committee member. Nina Petrovna is asking for confirmation. I'll bet 19 for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:00:11]] For 234 Decision taken. Nina Petrovna, you've got two more changes to make, haven't you? Please. Or one?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u169	Next 29th. But you've just voted, you've heard that you've been told that service fees are going to go up tens of times. You're voting on this on the basis of the redistribution of funds. How is it shameful to do such things during wartime? 29 amendments, listen, we understand everything, balance, responsibility of the Ministry of Finance at budget expenditure, but when a direct rule is made that there should be a strong budget for each draft law by the Ministry of Finance, yes, of course they will not make any calculation even for consideration by the Committee of Budget Policy. Why? Because we're seeing right now, even with their draft laws, they don't do that kind of calculation. When I write down this rule, I agree with my colleagues, never, ever, will any parliamentary initiative go through in the hall. You're actually changing the whole policy of the relationship between the performer and.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u170	Committee position, please, 29 corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u171	Dear colleague, before article 52 of the Code of Budgets, are designed to reinforce the role of Minfin as the body responsible for balance and soundness of the budget. Such provisions of the bill do not limit the right of the legislative initiative to submit relevant bills, i.e. comply with the requirements of article 93 of the Constitution. And they also come out of the conditions signed between the Government of Ukraine and the International Monetary Fund of agreements to avoid spontaneous initiatives that can balance the budget. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have heard your positions. The 29th amendment by Yuri Mikhailovich Kuzbitt is considered by the committee, but this decision requires confirmation by Nina Petrovyn Jujanin. I'll bet 29 a confirmation amendment. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:02:34]] For 235 The amendment remains counted. And final, the number, Nina Petrovna!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u173	69th. Dear colleagues, Minfin is supposed to give all the projects a reckoning and to discuss with us and have the opportunity to stand up for himself, so there is a committee of profiles and an initiator of any legislative initiative, that is, a national MP. You have deprived yourself of the opportunity to even discuss your initiatives. 69 revisions. People, in March 2022, we adopted a rule that local budgets can count on the state budget the funds they have available to make certain arrangements. Now they're changing this rule, if they're in the state budget, so they have to spend on the expenditure planned in this year's budget. But now it's being proposed to change it so that, with the further distribution of such funds, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please tell me you just said that this bill is being adopted for transparency, relevance, balance. Where appropriateness and balance are, if you now owe significant funds to the locals.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u174	A brief position for the 69th Amendment Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, this situation and this adjustment is caused by the fact that the decision you said that we had made earlier led to the fact that the listed funds from local budgets to the state budget depended on Treasury accounts and no one knew what to do with them. In addition, this right extends the possibilities of spending the remainder of subsidies remaining in local budgets, introducing 29 articles of the State Budget Act 2023, i.e. expanding them. Thank you. I'd like your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, amendment 69, authorship of Cubbit, is counted by committee. She asks for such a decision to be put to the vote. I'm putting 69 amendments on confirmation. Please vote. [[15:04:53]] For 234 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the Predictability of Budget Policy and the Strengthening of Debt Stability (Registration No. 9346-1). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:05:36]] For 249 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Show the factions, please. The next, 9233 and its accompanying 9233-1 (alternative), is a draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Enhancing the Efficiency of Managing Subjects in Business and Urban Activities. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:06:20]] For 261 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[15:06:42]] For 223 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, two in favor, two in favor, and we vote against it, right? Please sign up: two in, two in. Vitrowicz Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u177	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u178	Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u179	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, before this bill is a series of comments by GNEU, other ministries. You can open it and see it. We're talking about urbanization, we're talking about temporary objects, parking lots, something else, how they can be set up, and there's actually a lot of questions. So our faction will hold on to that. But there is a far more important issue that concerns the whole country today. This is when, from the central government, I want to remind you of this, because unfortunately, it was the central government that became the source of this policy that began to spend the budgetary costs of divinity on what the whole country saw: drums, vegetables, serials unknown about what. We're told that we need the show. Yes, it's necessary, but not the stupid thing they're planning and how to put in over 400 million dollars. Still, when local authorities saw this, they could spend budget money on drones, anti - drones, and military vehicles during the war. We're told there's not enough military. There's no money to return the 30 to everyone. There's no money to pay. It's not there, it's not there. The drums, the veggies, the series. And our local authorities have taken over. Then we saw squares, stadiums, sidewalks, and other things we didn't need during the war when missiles hit our heads. So first of all, you don't have to say this right now, let's take the money into local self-government, I'm giving you immediate notice and warning, but let's show you an example that, first of all, the central authority will act differently and requires the same thing from the local authorities to follow this example. And there must be only one principle: everything for the front, everything for the victory!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u180	Schwachka, please. "Serve of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u181	Give the silent word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u182	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, this is a small but very important bill. A month ago, the Ukrainian Security Service, along with the National Police, detained an official of the Lochwitsk City Council in a bribe. The bribe amounted to $2,000 for the right to station a kiosk in Lochvitza. This is a mass history in Ukraine for many years, because all the temporary buildings, the MAFIs, are corruption on the local level, it's petty corruption on the local level. But why it's important and why we need to eliminate this hole in legislation because it's a perception of justice in small and medium-sized businesses. They are the people who open the lamps, the kiosks, sell bread, sell food, and so forth. Dear colleagues, this bill contains two important blocks. First, it provides transparent rules of the game, rules for the placement of temporary buildings in communities on municipal and state property. Transparents, I mean, through the electronic auctions of the Prozorro Sales. We've discussed this with you many times. The second block relates to the organization of parking spaces, parking lots, and the territory of cities on the land of municipal property. And today this issue is not regulated by legislation at all, very many scandals, including corruption, mostly in large cities. We're saying that everything has to be through an electronic auction. If you want to do this kind of business, the community organizes an electronic auction, you come in, you win, and you set up a parking lot, or you set up a temporary building. Dear colleagues! It's a bill on competition for small and medium-sized businesses and fair game rules. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u184	Yes, the "Serve of the People" has been spoken. What are our motives? Your Honor, the procedure. I understand all that desire. Dear colleagues! Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. After that, we vote, Your Honor. I'd like to invite the people's deputies. Please invite people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u185	Thank you, Mr. Head. Of course, the approval of the principle of transparency is important, but the question always arises, is it now on time and most important? Of course, transparency, competition is good, but where were we two or three years ago? And now, in active military action, we're going back to these issues. All comments by GNEU should be taken into account when considering the matter for second reading, if the national deputies are determined as to acceptance in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, please move on to making your decision. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to making a decision. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues! I propose to adopt, as part of the first article of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to improve the effectiveness of the involvement of economic operators in the area of well - being and urban activities. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[15:13:51]] For 207 The decision is not taken. I'm making an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we'll all get through, we'll all have to go through. I'm proposing to re-read Bill 9233. Vote please, Your Honor. [[15:14:21]] For 209 The decision is not taken. I propose that the subject of the legislative initiative be sent for further work. Please vote. [[15:14:43]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Now let's move on to the second, alternate, bill. I propose to adopt an alternative draft of the Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the effectiveness of the involvement of economic operators in the area of well - being and urban activity (register No. 9233-1). Please vote. [[15:15:25]] For 199 The decision is not taken. I'm proposing that this bill be re-readed, 9233-1. Please vote. [[15:15:50.]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I propose that the subject of the legislative initiative be sent to the draft law. Please vote. [[15:16:14]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Projects are considered to be rejected. Dear colleagues, next bill, 9517. Please invite the national deputies to the hall, keep working. This is a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[15:16:53]] For the 220. Decision taken. Acceptably, why are you looking forward to it? Thank you, Your Honor. Please invite Calchenka Sergey Vitaliovich. He's from both the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u187	Honorable Presidium, honourable national deputies, we have been living under full-scale warfare for 17 months now, and, I recall, the war has begun, indeed, for the tenth year now. And according to this period of war, which was introduced for the first time on February 24, 2022, and has repeatedly continued, including today, it also affects every citizen of Ukraine. It affects and results from the activities of all authorities, including the Supreme Council. Recently, you and I, once quarantined, amended the Committees Act, allowed us to continue the work of committees on an online basis in times of war. Similarly, on the first day of the outbreak of a full - scale war, the first decree on the organization of Parliament’s work in a state of war was adopted, followed by other amended decrees on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council under the conditions of martial law on the first day of the work of the eighth and ninth sessions. This bill, Decree 9517, proposes to amend the relevant decision that was adopted at the beginning of the ninth session, some questions about the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war and, in fact, the characteristics of Parliament’s work are defined. And in view of the continuation of the state of war that has been implemented today, the need to normalize the institutional and legal security of our Parliament's work during the next session. To that end, Bill 9517 was introduced. The Regulatory Committee at its meeting reviewed the draft and, in its agreed conclusions, noted the need for specific editorial details on the content and numbering of items, including names. In particular, one of the project sub-items will modify the title of the regulation, and the other will change to the first sub-item of this regulation. So the regulatory committee in summary recommends that Parliament consider this draft in accordance with articles 20 and 138 of the Rules and accept it in general, taking into account the proposals put forward in the Committee's conclusions. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u188	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for two, two, against, to discuss this bill. And then we vote. Please sign two for, two against. Fedia Sofia Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u189	Please pass the word to my colleague Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u190	Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u191	"European Solidarity" wants to thank the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the legendary 72nd Brigade, who helped liberate the Kyiv region a year ago. And the Kyiv region is gradually returning to peaceful life. Today we will return, for God's sake, in the first reading of the electronic declaration. And only in Parliament, in the only body in the state, and still, you know, everything is classified, the press is gone, the "Council" channel is not working here. And now what are we going to vote for? For Parliament to continue to work in secret, once a month here to meet without media, it's not clear how to form the agenda and you support all of this. You're just being insulted on the front because soldiers are fighting without weekends, without everything there, you know, vacations and stuff. And what Parliament is going to do once a month instead of going back to normal today's agenda, to normal scheduled plenary weeks, to normal work schedules, to timely transmission to the committees of the agenda for their consideration, to the broadcast of the "Council" channel. By the way, Kyivrada broadcasts her meetings on live television and all is well. By the way, Alexy Honcharenko, the Ironborn, I -- we're all now giving information about the activity, the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine instead of the "Rad" channel that you finance by billions, and it's doing broadcasts of the President's Office, and nothing happens, you know. And you want to increase your vacations, your inactivity here, your absence to the Supreme Council. It's a shame to vote for it. We'll hand over the army to anyone who votes in favour right now for this disgraceful decision. We demand the proper work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: plenary weeks, committee work is open, not online, the "Council" channel, the press here, accountability – this is how parliament is supposed to work during the state of war. Enough with the fear! Rabbit!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u192	The word is given to Brother-in-law Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u193	Colleagues, we're in a state of war right now. I think the Supreme Council has to work the way it works, because we're in an extraordinary situation. Please support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u194	Thank you. Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u195	Thank you, Mr. Head. Fellows, let's be honest with each other that the special regime of the work of the Supreme Council was completely justified in the early days after Russia's widespread direct aggression in February, when Kiev was surrounded, when every day we didn't know what was going to happen. It was absolutely obvious that we should not have spoken publicly when the Supreme Council meeting had to remove journalists, and that was justified. There are no questions. But today, colleagues, the situation has changed completely. Today, if you look at the cables, there's a broadcast on the internet from here, well, they show you how the votes go, every five minutes. It's all clear and everyone knows that we're going to work here. The only thing we can't do is get a proper position with the voters, and people generally think that the Supreme Council is some kind of ephemeral organ that doesn't know what it's doing. So the "Fatherland" faction for a perfectly normal restoration of the work of the Supreme Council in a normal way. We're told that we need a specific calendar plan. But it's not a problem, let's confirm the specific calendar plan. We're told there are other technical problems, so let's solve them. But in principle let's switch to normal mode of work when we can communicate with voters on television when there are journalists here when we can work properly, but in the way we work now, I mean in the same calendar, nothing changes. Let's not play and pretend that we have supersecret here and no one knows what the Supreme Council is going to be. The only thing I'm stressing again is, people don't know what we're voting for here, and what we're going to do here, they know. That's why the Fatherland faction won't support the decree. And we're talking to the Supreme Council leadership: before the next session, we're going to draw up a normal schedule for the work of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u196	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u197	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Well, first of all, if you get out of a healthy logic, when the majority in this room were supported by the military state, the mobilization, we're talking about now that we have absolutely free conditions for work, probably exaggeration. So we worked and worked in specific conditions, and they provide for security, including measures. So once again, this is our logical decision. But in what ways do I fully agree with my colleagues? What we need to talk about is the quality of the work now of the Supreme Council. That's what we need to talk about. Are we doing the tasks that we face today as representatives of the people? In general, we do, but there are a number of questions that we do not have time for. Then let's think about discussing them more actively at the committee level. Let's do a little bit of work there, let's say. Let's have a discussion, maybe in a larger format, in preparation for the sessions, within the Conciliation Council, with less time spent on political battalions and discussions here in the session room. But I firmly deny today those who come from separate central authorities that the Supreme Council does not carry out its duties. There's a conscious humiliation of the Supreme Council as an institution. If you, dear colleagues, allow it, then let's know that we need to combine our efforts to prove -- we work, we work for the state, we work systematically, all the political forces. And let's do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take a seat while we're preparing, but I want to confirm that we all know that the Supreme Council is not just working, it's working in this place since the first day of a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. And I remember very well this morning when we gathered, and from that point on, when we voted for the introduction of martial law, we did not leave the country on any day and carried out our responsibility, which rests on each one of us. But the success of the Supreme Council, including the fact that we have made a special regime to somehow preserve the only legislative body of our state. We're neither above us nor beneath us, we're the only ones. And all these questions raise a question, including the security of this body, that is not a question of individuals. And I'm very sorry that some people boast here that they're violating our decision when you said not to explain the work of the Supreme Council, and they're hustling like information junkies here, putting theirs above society. I'll bet. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I would like to propose a proposal to take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" (registration number 9517). I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[15.29:35]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Show the factions, please. Let's move on, dear fellows. Then there was the bill that everyone was looking forward to. In accordance with articles 50 and 96 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I have received a letter from the leaders of the parliamentary factions and groups concerning the need for urgent review of the draft Law (Registration No. 9534) amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the determination of the procedure for the submission of declarations of persons authorized to perform functions of the State or local self-government, under conditions of martial law and non-derogation of the application of the ad hoc procedure. The need for urgent consideration was also noted at the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups. So let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 9534) to amend certain laws of Ukraine on the determination of the procedure for the submission of declarations of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government under conditions of martial law. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:31:08]] For 279 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to define an immediate bill (registration number 9534) to amend certain laws of Ukraine on the determination of the procedure for the submission of declarations of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government under the terms of the war, the shortening of the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of the consideration of the matter and its consideration at the sitting today. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:31:54]] For 281 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to discuss a bill with a summary procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:32:21]] For 229 Dear colleagues, I'm impressed by this kind of unanimity, maybe without discussion and we can get the declaration back, we can take the first step. Ready? Dear colleagues, thank you for such unity. Who is not ready to return the declaration? Please, then, two factions against returning the declaration quickly. Dear colleagues, then sign up: two in favor, two in favour. But while you're writing down, I give the floor to the initiator of this bill to David Georgiyovich Arahamiya.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u199	Colleagues, this is really something that concerns 800,000 people who have to make declarations and we have a great responsibility with you. On the one hand, we need to demonstrate to society and to our partners that we have nothing to hide, that we are all willing to declare, and on the other hand we need to take care of the safety of family members, first of all those people who are now working for the state and who are near occupied territories, who are actually being hunted openly. So we really have a big responsibility, and we need to take this very seriously. So to this day, we demonstrate our determination to be in favor of the restoration of the declaration. But once again, I emphasize that we need to work very hard between the first and the second readings in order to take into account these security standards that now concern many declarants. I'm not talking about the Supreme Council right now, and I'm talking about the local councils that are next door. And of the military, and of the members of their families. So I ask you to demonstrate unity on this issue and to immediately vote first reading so that everyone can see, and then before the second reading work out a normal common decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u200	Thank you, Your Honor. Anastasia Olegnowna, will you not report? You will. Please, Radina. Then we go: two in, two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u201	Good afternoon, fellow Members, I would like to remind you of the conditions the people of Ukraine have chosen me, you and all of you here, as national deputies. Part of our social contract was our openness with you. We came to the Council on terms that we show our wealth, that our assets check that we are responsible in the event that in our goods there are signs of lies in declarations, there are signs of illicit wealth, there are signs of unfounded assets. You and I have the responsibility to comply with the terms of this social agreement. We must now return the obligation to declare ourselves, return the mandatory checks of our declarations, and show the Ukrainians that we have nothing to hide for, show the Ukrainians our honesty, proactively. That's what people expect from us, that's what they expect from us on the front, no one will understand unless the Supreme Council decides on the first reading, colleagues. Now to say that the declaration system is imperfect and that's why we don't vote first reading, it would mean simply lying to people and not returning declarations in principle. I urge you, colleagues, to do what the faction's head asked, to support the bill in the first reading, to work on the second reading calmly, constructively, and to comply with our part of the social contract. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u202	Thank you, Anastasia Olegna. Dear colleagues, registered with factions. Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, "European Solidarity"
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u203	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u204	Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, it's good to finally get to that hand. I don't know when transparency and accountability were hampered. Because thanks to ProZorro, we learned, for example, about 400 million bracelets, one of them about Parvoz, Poraznuk. We learned from journalists about the eggs of 17 bracelets in the Minobron. And now we should also show an example of transparency -- that it's both the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and those newly appointed people in the VCA, those newly appointed people in the regions that were not currently making any declarations, they weren't carrying out any checks on them. I'm actually surprised that this initiative is now my colleagues. Because it's really a long time ago that the government of Ukraine, the government of Dennis Schmigal, should have submitted this initiative because it's one of the conditions of the European Union. Me. And we want to very much start negotiations, we want to win this historic victory, we want to become members of the European Union. I don't like everything about the project that's being submitted. I don't like that they want to hide these crazy prizes that are going to go beyond what's actually normal in a state of war. I want to know who gets more money than the Ukrainian military gets in these conditions. Well, why are we hiding this now that society wants to know? I don't like it either, for example, that we're going to hide any rent up to 137 thousand dollars. Why? From what fear is this, tell us, what are we afraid of? There's a lot of stuff out there. Which is why we hide third parties in some of these declarations. Why? Is that how we all feel? In fact, the danger today is those on the front line, those people on the front line who want accountability and transparency from us. Let's respect them, let's now vote for what was introduced in 2016, and work normally. And let us show respect today for the Ukrainian army, which is the only one in danger today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u206	The word is given to Gerus Andriy Mikhailovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, we all understood what we were signing up for when we traveled to the Supreme Council in 2019 and those of us who became deputies understood what legislative obligations, what responsibility we have with you. So today we're going to go back to transparency in Parliament, and we need to renew the electronic declaration. In a few years, we have learned to fill out these difficult declarations. I hope that the second reading will be further developed so that we can insure situations where there are simply some mistakes or there are some incidents with inaccuracies in the declarations, but we need to return transparency, we need to take this anti-corruption step and I want to thank the leaders of this process -- David Georgievich Arahamiya and Anastasia Radinij and we have a long dialogue with our international partners. We must fulfill this commitment, take this step and move on and show the country as a whole an example of transparency and an example of how anticorruption laws can be passed in our parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u208	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. "Platform is for life and peace!"..
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u209	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please give the floor to the national MP, Gregory Mammy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u210	Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, let me drop the politics, because it's a more legal fact about declaration, because it's legal. What they did from the rostrum, who promised to whom it should be. That's not something he should promise. You can scream from the rostrum and do something else under the carpet. We don't treat people like that, but we demand what? If a declaration is to be made, a declaration must be made, understood, revealed, and a person should, please note, explain his wealth for the purpose of confirming or refuting the fact of illicit wealth. At present, military action has begun, war has come out, leaders who are fighting, unfortunately, not with corruption, but with corrupters, only, in truth, cases do not come to trial, and they say that, listen, we stop this, we will declare it after the war is over. It's been a year and a half, they say, listen, we must have said, well, we're a little sorry, let's go back. I'm paying attention, we're not getting it back. You're all reading the media, the NAZC manager says he's going to run military tests, everyone's heard. So the tests are off-limits? Can anyone submit a declaration for review? Everyone can. We'll support this bill in the first reading, but between the first and the second, we're going to apply. And I'm paying attention, the commitment to another bill, the procedure through another committee, his registration, I want to point out, in three or four days, what was the deal. You don't have to yell from the rostrum, you just have to make a commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u212	Please remain in Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich and Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich. And after that, Burmich. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u213	Thank you, Mr. Head. The Fatherland faction will support this bill in the first reading, and we are among its authors. We went through all the tests that were necessary when the declaration was made. We didn't have any questions. But, colleagues, let's be honest, let's say without populism, that unfortunately, there are many things in the law in force that have nothing to do with honest and transparent declaration. I don't like cosmopolitan patriotism from this rostrum when so - called anticorruption workers come out, beat themselves in the chest, and tell us stories. Unfortunately, this law encourages so - called anti-corruption bodies to engage in statistical propaganda by doing things that have nothing to do with the law and the fight against corruption. We're for the declaration to be made in order for politicians to be accountable to society, but for this declaration not to be an instrument, you know, an arbitrary influence on every policy, whereas arbitrary, when this law is interpreted in black, when white and then really, as colleagues say, things are falling apart in court. That's why, as the previous speakers said, for us to approach this law honestly and fairly, and between the first and second readings, we can bring it into line with the fact that politicians are really accountable, politicians are transparent, politicians are declared, but that this declaration is intelligent, understandable to society and does not allow anyone to speculate, manipulate, create any pianist events, and then, two years later, hide their eyes and say, "Oh, excuse me, we've made a mistake. Oh, sorry, we didn't know. Oh, sorry, that's not what we caught. Oh, I'm sorry, we can't prove it." That's why we're for being honest with a society that's transparent to society, and that's why the "Fatherland" faction, I'm going to say again, supports this law in the first reading and joins it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u214	Please, Jurchishin Jaroslav. Ah, Kulinich, right? Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Wait, wait, wait, wait, It's a binoculars. Look, I announced Jurchishin first, then there'll be Bilozer and then there'll be Bourmich and we'll finish. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's not two minutes. Oh, you are? God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, that's all. The billiards then first, I'm sorry. Whitelighter, please. Then there'll be Jurchishin, and then there'll be Burmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u215	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! We remember the moment when Ukraine became a candidate for the European Union in June of last year, but many have forgotten that there are seven principles, seven criteria, including the fight against corruption and the adoption of this law, which is long overdue. Yes, security issues may have become unnecessary at the beginning of a full - scale invasion of officials ’ declaration, and the register was closed. But the result is today, and only a third of all government officials, as it were, have provided information and declared their assets for 2021-2022. Paralyzed tests, NAZK tests. Today, corruption has gone nowhere. We have a situation where we have dozens of signals of corruption on all levels, from the local level to the central level. Just now, there are hundreds of officials on vacation, or they're back from vacation, they're buying villas, they're picking luxury cars. And you need a fuse. One of the fuses, of course, is an official public declaration. Of course, we also need to ensure justice, impunity, and the rule of law. And this narrative has to be implemented into our national anti-corruption policy. So we shouldn't refer to security issues when our boys and girls are alone today, and volunteers, and we're picking up drones, tactical glasses, plitonics. We shouldn't refer to security issues when we have that individual groups don't have drones at all. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u216	Thank you. Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction. After that, Murmich Anatoly Pavlovich, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, this connection is very happy. The only thing is, it's amazing that we haven't been able to solve a simple enough question all year. And now it looks like everyone's ready to vote, that's great. I'm very grateful, actually, for the organization of the working group, because we're used to blaming each other politically, but this is the case when we found the decision. There were worse options, there were better options, but in the dialogue, without blaming each other with corruption, with anti-corruption, we can show society openness and accountability. The key task is for us to prepare ourselves for the second reading at one time and make an electronic declaration of what it should be. Not by using political moments as it is from time to time, but in fact by the symbol of transparency that the European Union will be equal to by the time of Ukraine's entry, but by the time we enter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u218	Please, Burmich Anatoly Petrovich, MP's "Resurrection of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, dear Head, we made a thorough decision at the beginning of the aggression to postpone declarations. Why? Because there were security issues about complexity and all that, and that's logical. What happened? We've already won and liberated the territory, we've got people back, registers, everything? And it's simple because society and our partners see individual authorities here stealing the budget and the help they're giving us. Simple declaration does not help us, we need to strengthen, we need to strengthen responsibility. Those individual officials need to understand that war is coming. And I think issues such as corruption or theft should be likened to betrayal in time of war. That's why we have to work. We will, of course, support it in the first reading, but we will do everything we can to ensure that this does not turn into selective political persecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. But Kamelchuk's procedure? No, not from the rostrum. We can't have the procedure from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u221	It's also a good rostrum. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, for the opportunity to speak. Hence, what I mean is that we should not be afraid of declarations or be afraid of transparent procedures. If we're talking about an honest history of this issue, I want to assure everyone who's going to see this video right now, the national MPs for the declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-27-m0.u222	Yuri, stop! Yuri, look. Let's not lie to each other. You said from the procedure. All of it. Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 9534) amending certain laws of Ukraine on the determination of the procedure for the submission of declarations of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government, under conditions of martial law and with the development of regulations in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote. [[15:51:18]] For 299 It's almost a constitutional majority. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, we have passed. We're done for today. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We're still working to win. And the glory of Ukraine!
