ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, the glory of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask everyone to take their seats. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in the context of the state of war" today, we continue our plenary session. I note that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the opening of the plenary session. Dear colleagues, I ask all colleagues to abide by the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Dear colleagues, the plenary is attended by foreign leaders of diplomatic representations. I'd like to welcome our colleagues. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the special honour to invite the President of the European Commission, Mrs. Ursula von der Lyaen, to the Hall of Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the delegation headed by her. Hello. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, according to parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin work on the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] The country's distinguished national deputies, the distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, lasts the 619th day of the large-scale military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. Our heroic defense forces are giving strong backs to massive racist attacks, destroying their special forces and military technology, carrying on offensive operations in southern Ukraine. Unfortunately, in this bloodthirsty struggle for independence and freedom, we lose our best advocates and protectors. The aggressor states are innocently killing civilians, including children, from their daily criminal actions. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of all the soldiers in Ukraine, all the victims of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Madam President! For us today, it is a great privilege to have a real friend of Ukraine in the Ukrainian Parliament. Allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to express my deep gratitude to the European Union, its European Commission, personally to you for your solidarity and the firm and effective support of Ukraine and its people in resisting Russian aggression. We also know and appreciate the preparation of new decisions to support Ukraine. Thank you for that. On July 1, 2022, on the day of the inauguration of the flag of the European Union to the Assembly Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you spoke in this video room. This was only a few days after the European Council approved the decision to grant Ukraine candidate status to join the European Union. We are grateful to the European Commission, which then made an unprecedented effort to prepare this decision. In your last year's speech, you also outlined the European Union's expectations of Ukraine, which allow us to move on to the next integration phase of the entry talks, which is the famous seven recommendations of the European Commission. In the 16 months that have passed since then, Ukraine, its President, Parliament and Government -- we've all worked to implement these recommendations. We have done this with a clear understanding that these changes are primarily needed by Ukrainian society and these reforms will strengthen the Ukrainian state on the inside. We are looking forward to the European Commission's annual report on enlargement. I am convinced that Ukraine's transformation work will be properly evaluated in accordance with high European standards. I am confident that your assessment will open the way for Ukraine to the next phase of integration, and by the end of the year, EU Crane Leaders will have made an important decision on the start of negotiations with Ukraine. Madam President, membership in the European Union is the choice of the Ukrainian people. This choice is civilized, and this choice is final. Today, Ukrainians are defending this choice with guns in their hands, and today, Ukrainians are giving up their lives for this choice. The path to membership involves a profound transformation of the country. I want to assure you that the Supreme Council is ready to work on this transformation and will do everything in its power to meet the expectations of Ukrainian society. We're going to do it as good as possible, quickly and efficiently. We're going to do this in clear, coordinated coordination with other branches of government, and I'm sure we can count on your support and assistance as well. Glory to Ukraine! Glory to a United Europe! And, honourable national deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Ljaen is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u2	Thank you! Thank you very much, Head of Mr. Stefanchuk! Distinguished People's Deputies! It is a great honor for me to address you in the house of Ukrainian democracy. When I'm in this great hall, my heart is filled with emotion, the admiration of your courage and endurance, the sadness of all the suffering that Russia has caused in your beloved country, the respect for all the incredible legislative work that they do in these walls even during the war of their existence. But the strongest feeling is a feeling of gratitude. All of Europe has been deeply grateful for what you have done since the start of this brutal war. You're fighting not only for your freedom, your democracy and your future, but for ours as well. You're fighting for Europe. That's what we're aware of with pain. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the people of Ukraine, thank you very much! [[Applause]] On the wall of one of the parliament’s buildings is the beautiful wall of French artist Christian Hammy. He reminds us of the deep connections between the people of Ukraine and the rest of Europe, as well as your courage and determination. The wall depicts the hero of the Ukrainian resistance of Alexander Macievsky. You all know his history. The Russians imprisoned him during the Battle of Bahmut, they forced him to dig his grave and executed him, committing one of the many war crimes in this bloody war. But when Alexander looked at his murderers, in his eyes there was no fear, he courageously stood before them, and he said two simple words: the words of freedom, the words of pride, the words that meant that Russia would never win this war. And now those words are forever on the wall and in the hearts of all the free people of the world: "Glory to Ukraine!" [[Applause]] Alexander Macievsky became a national hero because you all share his spirit. All Ukrainians stood up against Russian barbarism. And on the backdrop of your courage, there is only one thing that we, the rest of Europe, must do, is to be with Ukraine as much as it takes. [[Applause]] That's why next week we're announcing the 12th package of sanctions against Russia. The new sanctions will include almost a hundred new individuals, new import and export bans, measures to increase the price limit on oil, and strict measures for companies that circumvent sanctions. For too long, many in Europe thought that we could trade with Russia and integrate it into a European security order, but that didn't work, and that won't work as long as Russia's actions were driven by crazy dreams of an empire. And this is one of the most important lessons that you, the people of Ukraine, taught us as a result of this war. So we do not have to repeat the mistakes of 2014, and we continue to exert maximum pressure on Russia until the end of the aggression and until Ukraine establishes a just and lasting peace. And indeed, Europe is learning a lot in Ukraine. You don't hear that often enough. The people of Ukraine do not have to learn how to be European, for you are Europeans. And when President Zelenski addressed the European Council last week, he spoke as a European leader. Since the beginning of the war, Ukraine has proved much. You demonstrate the power of democracy, you demonstrate the power of ingenuity, and you demonstrate the power of European values. That's three main topics, I'd like to stop today. And here before the elected representatives of the Ukrainian people, I can only begin with the power of democracy. I remember very well how a year ago we presented seven necessary steps that would accompany Ukraine as a candidate on its way to the EU. Someone said they were too ambitious, but your reaction was extraordinary: all of your democratic institutions were mobilized to the maximum to realize this desire of the people of Ukraine. And as President Zelensky said, you didn't ask for discounts or bypasses, instead you showed what Ukrainian democracy can do. The scale and depth of the reforms you have been through are impressive: constitutional reform of justice, election of members of the High Council of Justice, anti-corruption program, progress in combating money-laundering, important measures to reduce the pressure of oligarchs on social life, the new Media Act and the progress of national minorities. We know it wasn't always easy, but it's a normal way for any democracy. We discuss, we disagree in opinions, we debate even more intensely, then we find solutions, and we finally make those decisions. And so, you've made great progress, far greater than anyone expected from a war-torn country. You're going through deep reforms, fighting a full-scale war. And the goal is really within reach. Further strengthening your anti-corruption efforts, adopting the Lobby Act, strengthening two aspects within the property declaration system, and implementing the rest of the recommendations of the Venice Commission on National Minorities are measures necessary to fully implement the seven steps. And you can do it, and you can do it fast. You've already done more than 90 percent. And we will continue to give you all the technical and political support you need. I'm sure you can achieve your ambition, that is, the adoption of a historic decision on the start of the accession negotiations this year. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends! My second point is the question of the economy of this country and the ingenuity of the Ukrainian people. Let me tell you a story of a young Ukrainian talent from Ukraine called Valentin Freczka. He was only 17 years old when he invented new paper manufacturing technology from opalescent leaves. Along with local entrepreneurs, he started a startup called RE-leaf. They contacted cities that wanted to get rid of tons of burnt leaves. And they started making paper bags for companies that wanted to work ecologically without destroying any tree. And then, in 2021, you, the Supreme Council, passed the Law on the Prohibition of Plastic Packs in accordance with the European Green Agreement. [[Applause]] And that gave a boost to businesses like RE-leaf. And now, thanks to EU funding, this promising Ukrainian enterprise is expanding and selling its products across Europe. This is just one example of this country’s great talent. Ukraine is a country of innovators, not only large agricultural enterprises and heavy industries, but also bright young talent who are already shaping Ukraine's ecologically clean digital future. Yes, Ukraine’s financial needs are impressive, but that is Ukraine’s economic potential, and Europe wants to invest in you. That's why we proposed a support mechanism for Ukraine, an unprecedented plan to help the Ukrainian economy for 50 billion euros. It will be financed by grants from the EU budget and loans in the capital markets. We're working on using profits from frozen sovereign Russian assets. This mechanism will support the reconstruction and reconstruction of Ukraine over the next four years. And for comparison, this is going to be more than any European country got from the American Marshall Plan, which we got to help Western Europe after World War II, and you deserve it. [[Applause]] The most efficient use of these funds is a critical task. That's why we came up with a plan to rebuild Ukraine together. With this master you will be able to create a new vision of Ukraine’s future. This is not only your chance to rebuild your economy, but also to give it a new look through a clear programme of reforms and investments and a single integrated programme. As you continue your journey to EU membership, you can form a better country for your young generation. And Ukraine's recovery plan is not only to channel European support, it will also provide guidance and coordination for international donors in Ukraine's interests. And that's why you're about to demonstrate to the world your aspirations for Ukraine's future. I decided two months ago to complete my request for the position of the European Union with the words of Victoria Amelia. Victoria Amelina was a Ukrainian writer, mother, and lawyer, and her life was taken by Russia during the mass destruction of the civilian population in Kramatorsk. Victoria Améline was convinced that this war had taught the Ukrainians much. You realized that you can count on each other, and you also realized that you can count on your friends in Europe. Today, we feel that we belong to one family and one house, for, as Victoria said, a home where we trust one another. But this war has also taught the rest of Europe a lot, and the most important lesson right in front of you is the power of this flag. The force of this flag, the blue, blue flag with the yellow stars that you decided to bring here. I remember this ceremony very well in the heart of Ukrainian democracy, here in this room. Perhaps too often we forget that flag. It means freedom and democracy, it means peace and prosperity. It's a symbol of age values and a symbol of hope, and you reminded us of that. You are teaching us all the true meaning of Europe. And that's the spirit that brought me here. And he brought me and, like me, all the European leaders who came to Kiev after more than 600 days of war. We have the solidarity of European citizens, but we do not bring Europe to you because Europe is already here. [[Applause]] Europe is already here -- in your fight for freedom, Europe here -- in your democratic debates, Europe here -- in your opposition to tyranny, Europe in the eyes of all Ukrainians who are fighting for a better future. And together we can win this battle, together we can complete our alliance, together we can bring Ukraine to our common European home. This is the dream of Ukrainian heroes and Ukrainian martyrs, and this is also our dream. Together we are Europe. Long live Europe! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, let us once again thank the distinguished President of the European Commission, von der Läin, and the distinguished representatives of the diplomatic corps for their participation in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the unreserved support of Ukraine and our European integration future. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u4	Let us once again thank our guests for Ukraine’s support today. On this optimistic note, I also propose to welcome today, first of all, the nominees: Eugene Pavlovitch Pivovarov, Aleksandra Sergiyovich Koltunović. [[Applause]] We want strong health, fruitful work, and Ukraine’s rapid victory. There is also a proposal to welcome one of the organizations that has actually joined many Ukrainians to move to Ukraine at the beginning of the war, and today, thanks to this organization, Mrs. President of the European Commission. Let's welcome the Railroad with their professional holiday, welcome the railroads with the day of the railroad. [[Applause]] I think, in a time of full-scale invasion, this organization has repeatedly proved to be the best and most patriotic state-owned enterprise in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we have a few breaks with a replacement for the performance, so please, we'll give them our word now. First Jurschin and colleagues. Please. Let's take a break. Let's take a break and then off the procedure. Come on. Dmitri Alexanderovich, from the procedure? Please, Clever out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u5	Alexander Sergiyyovich, distinguished colleagues, I was surprised to learn that today we have not only a meeting with distinguished colleagues in the walls of the Supreme Council, but you have also decided, under the noise, to carry out legal proceedings under Law 10037, hoping that the national MPs will simply not come. Alexander Sergiyovich, I ask you to put to the vote right now information that people's deputies who knew in the morning that this bill would be considered in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Just to understand the number of privileged national MPs who knew that Bill 10037 would be in the agenda of the Supreme Council today. Before that, the information was that it would be just a performance by a guest of honor. Please put my proposal to the vote, and then, as they decide, you will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u6	What's this offer, Dmitri Alexanderovich? I don't know any of those suggestions, and you're probably in the Rules. What kind of vote is that now? Is this a survey of MPs, or what is it? How do we do that now? I think you know, we have the agenda of the Conciliation Council forming, so you can go to the Conciliators, and they'll comment on how this law ended up in the daytime, as the agenda was formed today. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. We have a speech by Mr. Jaroslav Jurczyn and colleagues. I also ask for a moment of attention in the hall of silence, because today there are also such unpleasant dates certain. Five years ago, Catherine Gandzük died. Many of us knew her personally, and for many of us, this matter became a matter in which justice was a matter of life. So let us devote these three minutes to Catherine’s memory and to the conclusions that we are all as a society and we as his representatives are to make out of this terrible story. Thank you. Jaroslav Jurchisin. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u7	Thank you. Once again, I invite all who felt that they were friends of Catherine Hanszük, who knew Catherine Hanszük, who was part of the commission of inquiry regarding attacks on activists, to come out together to mention the example of female leadership, the example of service, and the sacrifice. I remember meeting Catherine at the Ukrainian School of Political Studies, as we discussed with her for a long time how important it was to clean the south of the Russian agency. I'm sorry we haven't fulfilled what Katya was dreaming about: we still have a Moscow agency in our seats, we still have people in the hall who have called for Russia to come here. But we also have gains: Menger and Levin are convicted. We know, and can we take off our T-shirts for the first time, the answer to the question, who ordered Katja Gandzük? Did Everyone Answer? Probably not. But we are on the way to at least being fair about it. And I would like to invite the TSC co-heads to speak on attacks against activists, who have done a lot to ensure that justice takes place in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u8	Thank you, colleagues. In fact, Catherine Gandzück’s name was called the interim commission of inquiry, which led more than 85 cases. And her name was really such a flagman, where in many such cases we imitated what she did. Katya once said, "Hold on to each other, because when they come, they will first be dealt with with with the right hands of the left hand and then with the left hands of the right hand." Therefore, fellow workers, let us cling to and continue to do this, continue to fight for Ukraine’s independence. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u9	You know, it's hard for me to talk about Katia today, because it's parallel to losing close friends on the front, and there's this moment, probably, like many of you, when you put your hands down, because faith is, and strength is probably gone. I'm so sorry we didn't see in Kata which Harrison did. And he showed himself in all his strength and fullness of resistance, opposition, Ukrainianism, statesmanship, other than the very many areas as he stood, as he was tortured, tortured, and he stood. Yes, so is our Katya. I want to thank her dad today, who's operating on the front, on the frontline, for the front that's just going through incredible trials, but he's still serving our country, and probably in memory of Katia against everyone. I would very much like to raise everyone for a moment the silence of our public activists, who have not lived to the great war, but who have formed this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u10	Thank you. Everlasting memory and eternal glory to all who have always fought for Ukraine’s independence, especially for the European Union’s flag to be in this room. Let's always thank them all. We have another break with the replacement. Who else is the faction, Arsenius Mikhailovich? Now we're taking a break with a replacement or we're going to go into law. Now, if you will. Then we have one law, so there's no choice. Vote? There is, unfortunately, a second reading. And there are colleagues in the hall who want to put them in. Did you find a break there? Yeah? Ah, Fatherland gave it to me, okay. Arsenius Pusharenko, please, PPM and Fatherland is a break with a replacement for the performance, and we will continue to go to law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! You know, these few weeks have been quite rich for our diplomatic success, including at the inter-parliamentary level. And that's an important result in the terms of the war that our country is in today. Today, before our Parliament, Ursula von der Läin spoke, which gave clear signals. First. Ukraine is seen in the European Union. The other one. We have implemented, and in this room, including, we have implemented those recommendations that we should have made for the start of the negotiations. Third. In the next four years, we're going to get 50 billion euros to support our state, our budget. This is a great joint result today, both the President and Parliament, and the government, all of us, because it is our responsibility as power. And the choice that is enshrined in our Constitution is the choice that our defenders are fighting and dying for every day. There was also a second summit, the second parliamentary summit of the Crimea Platform, where 69 countries and international interparliamentary organizations from five continents gathered. That's a big score. And under the leadership of our speaker, Ruslan Stefanchuk, and the Speaker of the Czech Parliament, Marquet Bakery Adamov, there was a powerful summit, where even representatives of those countries, when not often their governments supported Ukraine in certain matters, were determined. The Russian Federation has committed unwarranted aggression against Ukraine since 2014. All the territories must be repossessed, Russian troops withdrawn, all the hostages released, especially the children. The RF must compensate for all the damage caused by the war, and of course, the broad support of President Vladimir Zelensky's Peace formula. This is also important in the context of the meeting of security and foreign policy advisers held in Malta, where the first five items of President Vladimir Zelensky’s Peace Formula were discussed: nuclear safety, energy stability, food security, the return of the UN Statute, international law, and again the return of our hostages and deported children, where specific mechanisms for implementing the formula for peace were developed. Today, not only does the global peace summit become relevant in the context of Ukraine but we see the crisis that is now in the Middle East. So I thank all my colleagues for being so powerful today, and our delegation from the Inter-Parliamentary Union, where more than 40 bilateral meetings worked, we are moving today towards victory and a just peace in Ukraine. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, I propose that a signal vote be held prior to the commencement of the consideration of matters. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. Please take part in the signal vote. [[15:27:22]] For 108, against 7, there was no vote – 179. The procedure is Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, please look at me. This is a table of the bill that you want to start looking at today, this is, for the sake of understanding, the size. And what I want to say right now is that there is a rule in the Rules that these tables should be given at least 10 days before the beginning of the session, so that MPs would not be thoughtlessly pushing the buttons, but could learn what is in the bill, what are the standards proposed, what is the decision taken by the committee. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, and these tables were given literally a few days ago this week. I'd like to know what you are. I would like to inform you that you know that there is a grave violation of the Rules while they wish to consider this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u14	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Once again, I appeal to my colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not to spread information about the conduct of the plenary session and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. Out of procedure, Heroshenko. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, we are very careful to monitor exactly the information space to implement these inescapable security rules. And I want to point out that the first information on the presence on the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of the European Commission and the senior guests came, not from the deputies of the Supreme Council, but from the websites, the anonymous telegrams of the Office of the President of Ukraine. And it's actually once again a testimony to a completely cynical information policy that exists in Parliament today, when there's a "Council" channel and it's got 170 million dollars to inform the first society about the brilliant speech of our European partner, in which, by the way, it's a very important idea that Ukraine needs to develop as a democracy, which is a very important freedom of speech, which is a very important pluralism of thought. And that's why we call for today's debates that will now take place with regard to the PDF to go, not at night in the "Rady" channel slot, but to be broadcast so that the Ukrainians can see and hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u16	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. So, colleagues, let's move on to. Demchenko's procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I have, as always, urged and urge that we now be honest with each other, honest with the electorate. We understand that the number of votes currently present does not allow any positive decision to be taken on any proposals in this room. I think, out of respect for our voters, for those who do want the appropriate amendments, for them to be voted positive, I have such a suggestion to the chairman that we should now discuss the amendments that the authors are proposing, and that we put the votes in the next session, after the recess, that there should be a sufficient number of votes, and that was really fair. So we're sitting for what? In order to show that all the changes have just been made? Well, then let's just clear the hall and we'll keep talking about it in the towers. I just don't see the point. That's why I'm asking you to do it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u18	Thank you. I just want to point out that the presence of 300 people in this room does not guarantee 226 for any vote. Well, it's just like that, mathematically. [[B in m in s a l in]] There was an appeal for presence, so how would I react? Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, please, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u19	Alexander Sergiyovich, to the laws and regulations, and to the decision of the Constitutional Court, I will inform you. There is a decision by the Constitutional Court that any decision taken in the Chamber is possible only if there are 226 people's deputies. And as part of the violation of the law, I would like to point out that we started the sessions of the Supreme Council during the air raid. It's as simple as the information they say is for the protocol. Next question. You asked me to make a proposal to put to the vote. I would like to ask you to put to the vote a proposal on who supports further consideration of Bill 10037 at this session. Just for my information, then I'll understand. So clearly, as a national MP, I should ask you to put to the vote: who supports further consideration of this bill today? Because we have a continuous meeting. Please put it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u20	Is that a signal vote or what, Dmitri Alexanderovich? We have an agenda formed by the Conciliation Council, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u21	Dmitri Alexanderovich, once again, the agenda is formed by the Conciliation Council. Today she was, she met and voted, and we are considering this decision in accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Council. Thank you. Let's move on. Let's get to the point, yes, dear colleagues. Please. Dear colleagues, would you please be the kind of people who would insist on their repairs to the halls? They will, yes. All right, then let's go. 1st Amendment. Mikisha. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u22	Good afternoon, colleagues. Well, we're going back to the sad bill of 10037. What changed it? Nothing's changed. Last time we failed it, we did the right thing, because this bill is completely ridiculous: in the middle of the budget year, we take money from local self-government. How much has been said, but what do they expect now? And now they're hoping for a single telophone. What do we see? And we see there that local self-government is the main enemy of our country. That's what we've come up with right now. And I'll tell you why. It's so impressive when you open up a telethon that it's not Russia that's killing our people and our soldiers, our boys and our girls, it's local self-government. That's how they think. By August 2023, more than 60 billion were allocated from local self - government budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u23	Please, Your Honor, look, I'm the only one I'm gonna ask for. Let's turn all our fiery backs into justifications for amendments, if we can. Because that is the requirement of the Rules if we are already under the Rules. And your amendment has to do with how to name the bill again, do I understand? So, dear colleagues, the first number of the amendment. She's been rejected by the committee. The Mikisha National MP insists that it be taken into account. Please vote. [[15:35:27]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next, 2 revisions. Non-crazy insists? Are you insisting, Nekludov? Don't insist. Thank you. 3 revisions. Heratchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u24	Thank you. I ask you to take five minutes for seven amendments, please, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u25	Please, five minutes. The following seven amendments are taken by Heratchenko. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u26	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Ukrainians, in fact, "European Solidarity" is doing everything we can to have today's budget of a warring country, a budget in which all the funds went to support the Armed Forces of Ukraine. What do we really see? In the budget for 2024, there are 2 billion on the series, 2 billion on the marathon, and these are the costs of the oligarchic channels. Yeah, well, the same ones the new team promised to fight. And now we've heard Mrs. Ursula von der Läin's speech, that the European Commission is waiting for Ukraine to limit the impact of oligarchs on Ukrainian reality, and we're actually seeing when taxpayers' costs go to the 1+1 oligarchy channel, which still belongs to the family of the Colomaus and other oligarchs, and other oligarchic channels. Similarly, there remain 400 million on the show of stupidity instead of going to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. But by Bill 10037, the authorities are going to collect taxes on the income of individuals who pay the military for the permanent location of their troops in the regions, take them to a special fund where they will be completely uncontrollable. We're told that these funds are going to go to a very important point really for the government of drones and shells, because, in fact, today on the front of deficits, both drones and missiles. But Mr. Schmigal, Prime Minister of Ukraine, told the whole country that drones had already been purchased for 400 billion, he didn't say where they were. Similarly, it is not clear why Ukraine has not yet become part of the economics of the state of war. All of us, I think, have read the brilliant Chief Commander’s article in The Economist, where he made it very clear that we need five positions to win the war. It's also an advantage in the air (not just airplanes, but drones that still haven't been produced), it's an anti-mixture equipment (and we haven't created a bomb-making new technology, it hasn't been done in the government), it's just like fortification buildings. Excuse me, when Russia takes over any territory, it changes fields, it builds fortification buildings. The heroic Ukrainian army freed Herson, liberated Harkishte. Did the colliding line begin to build fortification buildings on our borders — on the Sumstin, on the Chernihjishte, on Kharkishte? No, it's not. Because the government doesn't do that. And now you're taking money to the regions, including the border regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u27	Thank you. Let's move on. Next amendment, 4th. [[B in m in s a l in]] I told you, five minutes. How long has it been? I wasn't watching. It was three, wasn't it? I'm sorry, I asked you to give me five minutes. Three of them, right, Irina Volodymyr? One second, let me get this straight. Add two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u28	It's only been two minutes 40 seconds. I'm asking you to give me two and a half minutes of my speech. And I stress that the funds that the Supreme Council of Ukraine wants to take to the regions, including in the border regions: in Montenegro, in Sustina, in Kharkishte -- when these PDFs are supposed to go to the bomb shelters, to the fortification buildings that the authorities are not doing at all. You know, last week, Kiyevrada alone allocated 1 billion VAT dollars to the troops that today are being fought by the Chinese. And they're going to go to the drones, they're going to go to the wheels, and they're going to go to the repairs, and they're going to go to the equipment that's very important. What's missing from the central budget, where it's all going, like in an immeasurable boiler, and we see in the account room's report that it's being stolen from the Ministry of Defense. And so our amendments, colleagues, we want to protect the funds that are to go directly to military units. We suggest that 10 percent stay in the regions, go to the military units. Further, to ensure that other funds are shared as follows: 30 percent from the central fund to the military units of VAT payers, 35 percent to the Ministry of Defence, not to the incomprehensible funds, and it is responsible for rearing; and 35 percent to go to the Ministry of Strategic Affairs. But it's desirable that these funds don't get ripped off and go on loan, let's let them do interest-free loans that have to be returned then, and with clear goals, to spend on economic development. What's being proposed right now is going to be, you know, such an immeasurable spending of funds with incomprehensible total funding, and unfortunately, without monitoring their spending. And that's why, colleagues, it's wrong to destroy self-governance and take the funds into the units that pay this tax on the income of individuals. I ask you to put to the vote my amendments: 3, 1196, 1343, 1537, 911, 745 and 304. That's seven amendments. And 173 and 243 I'll sound when we get there.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u29	Irina Volodymyr is very difficult. See, you've already made some adjustments that will be made later. Let's get to them, and then we'll put them in. That's why I can't jump. I'm sorry, I'm going to make a choice. It's not clear. You have proposed the following seven amendments. I've crossed out five minutes. Let's move on. Then I'll put it when it comes to them. Okay, but I don't have this paper, and I'm not going to jump on 1196. Okay, I get it. Okay, then I'll put it on when we get there. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. 4th Amendment, Gerasim, please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Who's it gonna be? Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u30	We're talking about the name of the bill. So this is about the title of the bill, because we have to support, first of all, the military. Now let's move on to practice. How much time does it take to make purchases for military units in local authorities? One month, tops, if anyone would deny it. Usually 15-20 days. How many military orders are required from the Ministry of Defense? Some up to six months. So if we want to go, we still have to leave the situation as it is today, with the amendments made by European Solidarity. But if we're going to need a pair of hats, we're going to find ourselves in a situation where the military parts aren't going to be provided with what they're supposed to be provided with. The boys on the front row often go at night without night vision equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u31	Are you insisting? The amendment, by Ariev and his colleagues, was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:44:20]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Mama. Don't insist. Six o'clock, Fris. Don't insist. 7th, Rapina. Don't insist. 8th, Pasic. Don't insist. 9th, Babenko and his colleagues. Don't insist. 10th, Brainy. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u32	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 10-16. That's seven bars, give me five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u33	Please, five minutes in seven. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to warn everyone that if we want to start today, I will insist on everyone. I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, if there is a desire not to engage in propaganda, today not to consider these amendments, but to take a key look at the first day of the meeting, and to make sure that Parliament is actually working for the result, not on the air. That's the first one. Secondly, a big request to all national deputies then at 6 p.m. or 8 p.m. don't start writing on Facebook, telling you how hard it is for you when you worked here 6, 7, 8 hours, especially for those national deputies who were not at all in the hall today, especially those national deputies who didn't come back from the United States from separate factions who then write posts, how hard it is for them to work until 11. You'd better not go to America, you'd better get ahead of yourself, talk to the military, understand the problems they're worried about, figure out where to send the money. Instead of taking money from the local government, it is effective to spend the government’s budget so that you do not get carried away by Rakunkova. Because both in this room and on the committees and on many other playgrounds there were 17 eggs, winter jackets at the price of the elderly, or on the contrary, there were no shells that no one in Poland bought for a billion dollars, for a billion dollars that did not reach the front. And today, everyone who goes to our defenders knows that this is one of the key problems that we have today in our army -- not enough shells, not enough mines, no matter what. But you're comfortable, you're comfortable taking that money away, heading for the road. It's convenient for you to take that money, spend it so that then an international audit grabs its head and doesn't understand where that money went. It is convenient for you to talk in this room about how to spend it, but you do nothing to preserve it and to address the needs that the state needs today. I think everyone watching us in the hall today, both on the front and on TV, regardless of what they're going to show us at night, will see how many national MPs are in the hall right now. And in fact today, the leadership of the Supreme Council and the leadership of the "Serial of the People" faction have done everything to ensure that there are no national MPs in the Hall, because the consideration of this bill should not have taken place. I'm told today was Conciliation. That's how you both did it, make a decision, according to the Rules, and now we'd be voting in the Hall. How many "ministers of the people" have even been informed that this bill will be considered today? Please show the order of the day, which has been sent to the people's deputies all: from factions and non-fractional. To whom did you direct the day’s schedule, and at what time? You think these are toys, that these are games, that you can play with your country? You can't! You can't do that to the military, you can't do that to those who provide that budget. You're going to try to keep drawing other bills: 10016 -- return checks for everyone by covering up the IMF. And what did you do to make your own economy, your own economy, that would provide your state and our state with you? But is ours with you? Ours is so true. Will there be money to repay the loans that you are collecting and spending today, as written in the article of Schuster, as on the last day that tomorrow — even the flood? I remember saying such expressions in France in history. But remember what was done for the French, which was the revolution, and for whom it was necessary to take responsibility, and for whom to be held accountable. And many other examples that, unfortunately, we will have to speak in this room today. But I am sure that the national MPs will have enough conscience this time to work for the State and for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I hope so, because soon the military will not expect it, but will come and ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u35	17 repairs, Mokan. Don't insist. 18 Amendment, Reasonable, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u36	18, 19, 20, 21, 22. Five rights, give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u37	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u38	I have one more question. Dear colleagues, can you tell me, from the power, from the greatness, and please tell me, how long will it take you to treat combat generals as unnecessary? You know, you're funny, and I'm ashamed of you when an SS commanding officer on the air is talking about what he found out about being removed from office on the air. Is that okay? Is that right? Why didn't you take them off your command on February 24th? Was it scary? I don’t remember anything here that is so serious about how to live. If you keep taking them out of office like this, the enemy will be back in Kiev very soon, very quickly, you'll be walking around with the shells shaking again, because on the 23rd, you said there would be no war. And the SS was one of the units that protected Kiev, which did not allow it to capture the enemy who had fought alongside GUR, with Alpha, with other units in Irpen, in Moscun. And you've already forgotten what it is today, I understand. Ruslan Alexiyovich, you too listen, it's for you, you're also a national MP, like everyone else. Aren't we ashamed of what happens to combat officers? Let's not go through the law on how to spend local money, but let's ask the honourable general here, ask him how this is happening. I think he'll find the time, especially since he's got a lot of it now. Let's ask Glaucoma with all due respect to him to come and point out his position, and as it happens, he's being kicked out, he's got important personnel to protect the state, to protect the country's security. I'm surprised to see today the members of a profile committee who aren't in the hall, half of them, and the representatives of other factions and groups who don't listen to this. You don't care? Look, then the army will be indifferent to you, to everyone, and it will have to be responsible. It's good when you talk on Facebook about how to pick up a drone, and it's not good when you're sitting in the hall laughing at the problems of our military. Dear colleagues, if I may say so, believe me, the army sees it, the army makes conclusions, and unfortunately, we all have to answer for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u39	From the procedure? Please, the Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, look, maybe what I'm saying will explain why there are so few people in this room. Look, I've come here to hear the reasons for every amendment and to make a decision on every amendment. Instead, we are now listening to a series of talk sessions for the liquid that are in no way relevant to the amendments that we are discussing. See, you make comments to the committee’s heads that they should report on the committee’s decision in accordance with the Rules. Well, let's do the work, not the pianist of the individual individuals. Actually, that's why there's no colleagues in the room, because they don't want to hear what you want to find in your pen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u41	Please, Your Honor, 23rd Amendment, Mokan. Don't insist. He insists. Smart guy, please 23rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u42	23-27. Dear colleagues, I understand you'd like to hear more about Sivkovic, about the SBU, about Kulinic. I think you can talk about that too. And the heads of the committees who came here to listen to something, and I wish they could come work here. This time. You don't have to nod your head. That's a good point. You're funny. But the problems of the army are important problems. I know it's not for everyone. Not for the individual people's deputies. It's not a lottery. So please don't make any remarks, I won't make them for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u43	Look, Dmitri Aleksandrovich, no one's commenting to you, we're just asking you to follow the Rules, where you need 23 amendments, which are designed to change the title of the bill, to explain the depth of your mind, not to tell and not to make remarks to colleagues who have come to listen to you. That's right, I'm just asking you, and I'm not making any remarks, I'm just calling on your responsibility. Thank you. 24th, Brainy. It's also an amendment to the title of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u44	I've changed them. Ruslan Alexiyovich, do you want me to repeat? I can do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u45	You're on the 23rd floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u46	No-no, I said 23-27.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u47	27th. Okay. Thank you. I'm sorry. Then let's do 28th. You, too. Please. And also by the name of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u48	27 - 32. Give me three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u50	Ruslan Alexiyovich, on the bill. Once the Council has failed it, I hope so, and the second time it will fail. Because those clever proposals that were echoed by our "Smart Politics" team from other factions, unfortunately, weren't taken into account. You. Not you in this case, but the Ministry of Finance is in charge of smuggling. They actually implemented the same bill in the budget. In fact, it was implemented by taking funds from local authorities. I don't understand why you brought him back to the hall to walk a few thousand straights. But I have a question. Please tell me, dear colleagues, how should communities in the frontal territory survive? If possible, the position of the committee was to be heard. Kharkiv is short 3.4 billion dollars. It's a variety of estimates of 3.4 billion. Other areas that are directly on the front line or next to the front line will not have enough resources not only to restore them but to preserve them. As far as the bill is concerned. Please tell me, have you read the Constitution? It's such a small book. I hope that the people's deputies have had enough time for this period of their activities, it's hard to call it work. Please tell me, does the Council have the right to enact laws of retroactive force? Does this law have the right to work since October 1st? You've been writing this down since October 1st, am I not confused? Mr. Cusbitt, a distinguished national MP, a colleague, a representative of the committee, I hope you will answer that question. And does this violate the Constitution? There are many constitutionalists here, the Head of the Supreme Council knows this very well, there is a representative of the President in the Constitutional Court, now in the Supreme Council. I would like to hear a position as to how changes can be made. I understand that you're a reporter, and I really hope that you can give a professional answer, because, as far as I know, it's a violation of the law. But you keep doing it, and you don't care about the law, no matter what you do. By law, I'm now saying, and I want to hear the answer, professionally, professionally, how to go: by law, not by law. Dear colleagues, then, and the table was to appear in 10 days, and on the committee we were to go through every turn, individually voting and making decisions. Maybe there's a way to convince him. But when it doesn't work that way at first, then you shouldn't say that it has to work in a different way in the hall. And the agenda should appear a little earlier, not half an hour before the meeting, hoping that the national deputies would simply not come. Here we are. Thank you. I await the answer of the honourable representative of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u51	Please answer only for these amendments. I'm going to remind you once again that 47 amendments apply to changes in the name of the law, equivalent. Please, what is the position of the committee on these amendments, because we will continue to discuss the name of the law again. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u52	Ruslan Alexiyovich, thank you. Committee position: this is not supported because there is a position of committee on the name of the bill that has already been defined. In terms of budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u53	Thank you. Only by correction. Thank you. The next amendment is 33. Dmitri Alexanderovich, who else will you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u54	39th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u55	33-39.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u56	The edits are really similar to the answer that is not available.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u57	Equal amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u58	Yeah, same as the answers that don't exist. This reminds us of just the position of an ostrich who hid his head in the sand. So give me an answer to what you're being asked, not as an amendment, but as a matter of fact. Unlike you, your esteemed colleague, the head of the committee gave answers to both the professional and the deep. We may disagree with her, but I don't understand how she fought for that shameful bill that you unfortunately voted on, but she gave a professional answer. And I hope she's not the only one on your committee of majority representatives who understands in some way that other national MPs know how to answer questions about why laws are passed that violate the Constitution. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I've been given a minute, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u59	Did you ask for how many or three? Add two more minutes after the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u60	And you don't have to say that the name doesn't answer, that the essence of the law doesn't match anything. You adopt a law that violates, violates everything in its path. It violates the principle of our decentralization reform with you, which you talked about a lot during the election campaign. But, you know, sitting places change the point of behavior for a lot of people. But remember, you can go back to where you were before Parliament, and you'll have to look people in the eye. And I really hope you have the strength to do that. So, once again, Your Honor Yuri Mikhailovich, please tell me how the committee has decided on a law of retroactive force that violates the Constitution, violates the Rules, and why are we even considering in the Hall today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u61	Thank you. Let's move on. The next amendment is 40, and so is Razumkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u62	Ruslan Alexiyovich, we're not changing tradition from 40 to 45.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u63	Please, from 40 to 45. How many, three minutes? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u64	Yeah, give me three minutes. Dear colleagues, would you please tell me in this room no one would like to raise questions about the theft of the 42.5 billion who broke up with the MoE? And it's our structure with you that has made such a conclusion -- the Honorable Chamber of Accounts. Let us invite the Master to do his duty. Let us hear what he has to say. It's your budget committee, you're the one who made that money, right? Where did they go? How were they spent? Why didn't you control it? Why didn't you control the budget? Tell me, please, how does it happen that you're putting a good name again? Let's go back to the name, put a good name for the law: the defense complex, right? Why don't you tell me, please, how did you end up in the second year of war? You didn't do that before, did you? Where are Gusev's factories? Where are Gusev's shells? Where were the shells purchased in Poland? Where are the rockets for the firing systems? Where's all this? It's a budget. This is the money you've been spending with Minfin, along with the profile structures. Where did they go? You have a report from the Auditorium that you're supposed to take to the auditorium. I'll tell you more, we'll go to the law enforcement authorities and ask him to be evaluated. If I don't hear an adequate response from the National Committee of Profiles, I'm going to have to ask about your inaction, because unfortunately, the area of budget responsibility is your area of responsibility. You may still not be able to answer completely clear and logical questions about why you are breaking the law, but unfortunately they will have to be answered sooner or later either in the hall or somewhere else. But, dear fellows, let's work for the state, not work for what anyone asks of you, or say you're hostages, you blink, and we'll understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u65	Please, 46 revisions, Brainy. Let's move on. 47th. We'll miss it, too. 48th, Brainy. We're missing it, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u66	55th, give me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u67	That's not what you're all about. From 55th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u68	55-59 correct, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u69	55-59. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I'm going back to the number of people's deputies in the hall, and then let's not be surprised by the level of trust we see in sociological research. The council is no longer trusted, the Council is, to say the least, not very fond of the front. The council doesn't appreciate the people's deputies at all because they see the whole circus that's going on. Please tell me that's not true. There's a lot to be alleged that we're going after the amendments right now, but tell me, please, it's not my initiative today, on Saturday, to secretly try to put them in the agenda with the expectation that the national MPs won't come. Please tell me, are you a member of the majority, or have you been written in a chat room that you may not come at all today? Because there's going to be an amendment and, well, don't worry if you don't vote for it. It may not be a big deal, but it's your job, the work of all the national MPs who aren't in the hall today. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm addressing you. This is your function as Head of the Supreme Council: to ensure the presence of the people's deputies. We've talked to you over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, if there are no 226 people's deputies in the room, it's not possible, it's the Constitutional Court's decision. Or there's something else, so please show me, I'll be happy to discuss it with you. And if not, let us obey the law. You are the Head of Parliament as a whole, not just a majority, I hope you will stick to it. What's more, you know the Constitution very well, unlike many. That's what everybody knows, that's 100% information that doesn't need any confirmation. That's why we can't look at this bill today, we can't turn the Council into what it is today. We cannot further reduce confidence in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If you could please explain how we are considering this bill. I know this isn't right, but I'm sure you have the answer as an experienced expert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u71	See, this bill, like all previous ones, we are considering in accordance with the Constitution and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next amendment is 61, Bezgin. Don't insist. 62th, Lozinski. Don't insist. 63rd, Mazurashu. Please, Mazurashu Georgiy Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u72	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm going to ask for amendments to number 63, 83, 100, 148, 192, 241 and 294. Give me five minutes, please. And I'll put one on the count of 294.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u73	Let's just put it on when we get to it so we don't jump. Now, please, five minutes in seven of your amendments that you announced. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u74	George Mazurashu, Servant of the People, 203rd District, Cherniewec Region. At first, I want to respond to the cynical words of a faction colleague who said that -- unfortunately, he's not there, but I'm going to be so diplomatic -- that I came here to listen to arguments and vote. It was just mentioned that I was recently present at this committee that he presided over, and when I asked for one of the amendments, one of the proposals to put it to a vote, he refused, and I ask: Why? And he says, "I just don't want to." This man, you know, tells us that he's ready to listen, to hear. It's a little bit cynical, I'd like to be more consistent anyway. Now first, let's talk about an amendment that I'm going to take into account. Before this bill, I passed my bill, which I proposed to take to the government to defend the needs of 85 percent of the PDF from military and other actors in action against racist aggression. And, in principle, somewhere, if there was such a decision before the finalization of this bill, I would be willing to vote for it. But I'd like to ask. There are, in principle, the representatives of Minfin, with respect, I respect everyone's work, and it's not easy work, and the minister, and the Ministry of Finance, in a warring country, to form a budget and somehow find resources, reserves, particularly to provide for the army. But what I want to ask you is that now we're on the good side of trying to fix this money, there and the drone production, and so on, and what, just now, more than a year and a half of full-scale war has gone by, only now do we know that there are such problems with drones? I want to tell you that, for example, I am very proud that five of my public helpers have volunteered to the front, and it is a great honour and gratitude to them for going to defend the state. But from one of them, for example, I hear that the main means of intelligence in their unit was combat intelligence. You know, when he says, "I'm asking if there's a Racist landing there, an enemy, and they say, "I'll see you now." Of course we'd need drones as large as possible, of course. This must have been thought last year. And in a situation where it's not a secret, that's a little help that we get, and a lot of help in the quality of the loans that our partners give us, they give us on the condition that these funds can't go to war, so they can't go to the defense of the needs -- it's their philosophy, we can't ask them for another, it's their position -- but didn't they ask us in these conditions earlier, much earlier to ask the question that the coming into local budgets should go to the budget, because only from our own revenue can we finance the army and the defence needs, bring them in earlier? And from the funds that we get, and we mostly borrow from international partners, to compensate local communities, budgets, to compensate, not by hand, but by some clear transparent formula. Isn't that what you've been asked to do before? And that would make perfect sense. Not to make decisions because we are very much in the mood to make decisions. I remember one of the other drafts that we were looking at here, and the pilot was about to be abused there. And really, they're being abused out there, so let's get to the center and we're going to abuse here. Because in order to draw into the center and normally these costs are said to be used effectively, you have to have a sufficient level of order at all at the central level of power so that there are no sad stories when you hear about those eggs and other ones there, and jackets, and so on. Even in the army itself, in the Ministry itself, defenses are wise to steal, which is, of course, shameful. Perhaps you should have done so earlier. But, okay, now we're done. Well, can we at least hear a little bit of local self-government? Don't just take it all away. I understand what this has to do with anything. It must have something to do with the smell of the elections and, of course, not with them ploughing at the local budget, and let's take it from the center and we'll be central ploughing. In general, it is not worth prying in support of the army except for those who spend their money on the army. You have to have a little conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u75	Thank you. The next amendment is 64, Alekseyev. Don't insist. 65th, Bondar. Don't insist. 66th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 67th, Mama. Don't insist. 68th, Brainy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u76	"To ensure the resilience of local communities in difficult situations in relation to war, it is proposed to allow for an increase in local debt, the total amount of local debt, and guaranteed by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district council or the local community. The state of debt at the end of the budget period cannot exceed 300 per cent of the budget, the city of Kiev budget, 500 per cent of the average income of the local budget general fund, which came in three previous budget periods." You rejected this amendment. I'd like to hear the committee's position right now, why it was done and what it is that is hampering both the local budgets and this completely inconvenient bill that was passed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u77	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u78	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Colleagues, increased local debt and guaranteed debt, in the face of economic instability and local budgets, may have a negative impact on the performance of debt. And that's why we're leaving the marginal level that is now: 200 percent. And please don't support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u79	Thank you. Got the position, didn't you? Let's move on then. 69th, Mokan. Is he insisting? Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u80	Ruslan Alexiyovich. Two, 69, 70, two readies. Just give me two minutes, please. This is on the same issue. So tell me, please, I understand correctly that you have the loans that the state is acquiring, objectively now, there are requirements, there is a need to provide both the army and the "hotels" of power that are in existence today, but are you actually transferring 100 percent of GDP? Two minutes, please, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u81	Yeah, give me another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u82	One hundred percent of GDP for itself and to lose on the purchases of something that doesn't come to the state. Losing on apples, losing on potatoes, losing on eggs of 17, yeah, that's okay, that's what makes you a budget committee? Is it insane for you to be able to increase the amount of local government loans? This is called a double approach: a double approach to power, a double approach to you as a national deputy, because today you report it from the Supreme Council’s rostrum. Double committee approach. I mean, for the state budget, you're all set up, for the locals, no. Please explain why, what difference does it make? Not just because it's 200 and good, we're leaving, we want it that way, and why have you made this decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u83	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u84	Dear colleague, we leave in the same size as there is, for one simple reason: that a considerable debt burden on local budgets can lead to their failure to recover these debts during the war. So the logic is simple: just so that you don't burden the local budgets with costs that they can't stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u85	Thank you. It was 69th and 70th revisions. 71st, Alexiyczuk. Don't insist with your colleagues. 72nd, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 73rd, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 74th. Yes, this is Timoshenko and his colleagues. That's what I understand, Sobolev. Ten minutes instead of all the amendments you have. Yes, Sergey Vladislavovich? Please, in 10 minutes, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make those arguments on the basis of which we have actually made all the adjustments and put them together in several key positions. Position number one. Even if the committee has calculated everything to a penny and believes that these costs will go away without theft, through open tendering procedures, the question is in the following. Cities, city communities, and city mayors were perfectly clear by the end of the year. And what you're doing here, I'm not saying back numbers that are prohibited in principle by the Constitution, since October 1, which is what you're doing, and when you re-entered it, you didn't take this into account, although it was one of the key warnings, but even taking this money away by the end of the year, I think, it means leaving the communities without the key finances that go to repair directly sewage, water and other emergency facilities that won't allow cities to enter into the winter. So if you think you're already doing this, but at least then consider the adjustments that relate to that, first of all, you can't put this in the back number of October 1, but you can't put that in the budget this year. Because those months left are long overdue. These funds are set up on financial grounds, without which, you know, no work will be done. And that's the first, and the key correction that we insist on so that we don't take back any of these costs or take back this year. This is the first and absolutely logical correction. The other one. We took data from your official reporting committee and the Ministry of Finance, which financial resource you want as a result of this operation. If the next year is about 100 billion dollars, that means you're going to get about 25 billion dollars on this neighborhood. I don't know if you've got data from the mayors association, which is what it is, or from every city. Only the state of the city has been spent today, I emphasize, on direct preparation, transfer of funds, financing, direct financing of the Armed Forces since the beginning of the war, about 60 billion dollars. And all of this is confirmed by the costings that are confirmed at the sessions and that are very easy to verify. The other one. About 30 billion urban communities have paid off the indirect support of the Armed Forces. And how many communities have spent, and this is actually tens of billions in Ukraine, supporting families that have died. While people were waiting for help from the state, the cities paid a million dollars each of the deaths to the family. The cities paid hundreds of thousands to those who had lost limbs, those families who had lost their children. Did you take into account the cost that went into this year for all of these payments? And now you're going to take the back number in one month and you're not going to be able to use it until the end of the year. In our view, this is the second group of rights that require unambiguous consideration. If you're already taking this unprecedented step, next year you have to take into account the funds that went into it. Third group right. We're great. I'd like you to listen, well, I'm not talking to the wall, colleagues. Third group right. You know perfectly well that the PDF will be taking on, including the paramilitary formations that are not on the front right now, but who live in these cities and villages. These are police and other paramilitary formations. Their families live in these cities, their children learn in these schools, in kindergartens, it goes directly to provide for all the needs of the city. How can these funds be taken into cities with the understanding that these people still live in these cities? The fourth rule that needs to be addressed immediately. These people have already paid this tax to the city, you know that. Nothing changed completely, they paid this tax for a year and two and three years ago. Yes, there were separate cities, such as the city of Kiev, or, for example, in Zaporozhye region right now, unfortunately, the occupied Energodar, who had the proceeds of that tax, was a deduction for them. But what has changed? These taxes continue to be paid, and these families continue to live in these cities and settlements. How can this not be taken into account? If you're already on the verge that all military officials are obliged to recalculate their VAT into the central budget, how could you not count it, as a budget committee, as the Ministry of Finance, or as the Cabinet of Ministers? The fifth norm that I think is most important in this situation. What do those who started at the expense of the funds that had already been allocated, but they were not separated when it was the city budget or the village, it was the only financial resource, they were spent on the immediate needs that were needed for the city? Well, you can't mark the bracelet that this bracelet came from the Navy 10 months ago, and this bracelet came from someone else. These are the general needs of a city that must be taken into account in one way or another. Next, it's a moral component. Please tell me that it is easier to control: an unwelcome mayor who uses funds that go as additional congregations from military and military officials and related professions, or easier to control the minister of finance or the prime minister? But it's clear that if the military returns from the front, God forbid, whole and healthy, not God forbid, with the cripples that never come back, and their families break up this measure -- and we know these examples -- that will allow themselves to use the funds that were to go to help military families. Someone's coming into the office to see the minister of finance. Is that what you're waiting for? Will anyone come to the cabinet to the Prime Minister who has absolutely no control over anything? And he can see wonderfully what's going on. And only today's secretary of defense has finally come to an understanding of what to do with military purchases by creating a special agency with appropriate control and other functions. This is also a question. Whether the community controls these costs, or whether these funds are controlled by someone else, and can be controlled. What are you going to do now with those 50 billion used by the Ministry of Defense not prior to appointment or at excessive prices? So, what's next? So our position is as follows. If you're considering a key amendment that relates to non-returning back from October 1st and counting it in the budget next year, it opens up a perfectly normal way to negotiate, and then there's a whole order of rights that apply, and where exactly the target goal can be used by these community and city measures, then there's logic, we're ready to support that logic. And so you're actually leaving cities in the fall-winter period on their own, understanding what kind of resource you're taking in cities. So if the committee wanted real work, you had plenty of time, you saw all the changes that were, in order to really get to the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u87	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. This is a speech instead of all the amendments that you and your colleagues made to the faction. Thank you. 75th, Savrasov. None. Don't insist. 76th, Krulko. Don't insist. 77th, Purtova. Don't insist. 78th, Mikisha. Don't insist. Oh, you're there, you just overdid it. I'm sorry. Please, Mikisha, 78th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u88	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Depending on what we should say in the correct way, it may seem that we are moving away from the subject. All my corrections and everything I'm saying, it's combined and it explains why it's written like that, even if it's suggested to change who. And I'm going to explain all of this in the papers. And the correct correction, it's about the National Research Fund. The only fund, probably in Ukraine, that works in an inefficient way with grants, supporting scientific and scientific and technical activities, to all direct participants in this. They're not working for the first year, they're working effectively. And now with this right here, I'm proposing what to do. They're completely self-employed, they're self-employed, they're self-employed, they're self-accounting, but they're going through the Ministry of Education and Science. Why? Why do you depend on a fund that works independently and efficiently, depending on the relevant ministry that governs it? Why would you do that? Let's make them completely independent and make them manage their own expenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u89	The committee's position is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u90	Dear colleague, to this day, I report to you that the conditions have been created today to ensure the activities of the National Research Fund. Expenditure on NFD activities and grant support is provided annually in the national budget in the form of the costs of MON, as you rightly stated, under a separate budget programme. So at the same time, what we're not saying is that when the state budget project was set for the 24th year of the proposal from the MON to define the NFD, the chief budget manager did not come. That's why it's rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u91	Thank you. 79th, Mikisha. Please. Vote, huh? I'm betting on the 78th amendment of Mikisha's authorship with a colleague. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:29:18]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Please, Mikisha, 79th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u92	Colleagues, once again, may be another approach to the destruction of regional commissions from the State Regional Development Fund. Well, let's do a huge favor for regional development for local self-government, and in general for regional policy, let's clear this corrupt chain. That's exactly what the correction is about, and it says that we have to eliminate this ingredient, clean it up in general. There, too, is a clear explanation of what the mechanism would be instead. It will be effective and will not create additional pressure for the Ministry of Community Development, Areas and Infrastructure, as individual representatives say. A simple, clear, clear algorithm and mechanism, as it will now work on this commission without regional commissions. And it's going to work. And it'll be easy and easy to understand for any community. And we're not going to lose anything, but we're going to win that. Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u93	79 Amendments to Mikishi’s Authorship and Colleagues The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[16:30:46.]] For-34 The decision is not taken. 80th, Chulak. Don't insist. 81st, Mama. Don't insist. 82nd, Fris. Don't insist. 83rd, Mazurashu. We're through. 84th, Krulko. Don't insist. 85th, Alekseyev. Don't insist. 86th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. Brainy, please. 86th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u94	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 86, 93, 95, there's three revisions, they're identical. Give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u95	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I don't see any of those national MPs who have been talking a lot about wanting to talk and to listen to the principles of the bill, they've gone somewhere. It doesn't, does it? It's all right. The state won't lose anything. The revisions relate to 64 percent of rural, rural, and urban communities' revenues at the level of the Budget Code. I know it's actually partly done by this bill. I have a question: why are we seeing double approaches with you again? Why do you take into account the monotony of the majority, and the "Smart Politics," which were actually before the monotony, they probably saw and decided to submit, you don't know? I think it was right if they were all accounted for if they were identical if they were correct. Are we back in politics? You have all the laws of politics. It doesn't make sense, but there is politics. You didn't plan on counting them at all, then you had to do it. But we're either with you on the score, or we're playing, you know. And that's what you do. Explain to me why the application is rejected, all three of them? What is the difference between what was involved in other adjustments? And I would like to hear your position as a representative of the committee, not your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u97	Please indicate the position of the committee on these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u98	My dear colleague, you've noticed quite correctly, you've noted that you've taken into account the fines that provide 64 percent of the local budgets from the PDF, except for the military. This was taken into account the number 729 and 1394 law with the mandate to provide in the State Budget Act for the 24th year appropriate amendments to the VAT regulations, which was done by the Ministry of Finance. So these are already taken into account by the committee's collegiate decision. 729 and 1394. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u99	Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. 87th, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 88th, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 89th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. The '90s, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 91st, Timoshenko. We're on our way. 92nd, Bondar. Don't insist. 94th, Chulak. Don't insist. 96th, Bezgin with colleagues. Don't insist. 97th, Lozinski. Don't insist. 98th, Mama. Don't insist. 99th, Fris. Don't insist. 100th, Mazurash. I'm on it. 101st, Krulko. I'm on it. 102nd, Bondar. Don't insist. 103rd, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 104th, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 105th, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 106th, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 107th, Timoshenko with colleagues. Here we go. 108th, Alekseiv. Don't insist. 109th, Lozinski. Don't insist. 110th, Bezgin. Don't insist. 111th, Mikisha. Please, 111th Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u100	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. See what this is about. It's an overstatement, so overwhelming that there's even a single bill of 9559-d. What's in it and what's in the right direction. What we ask, not even ask, but demand that we add6 so that local self-government can provide without hindrance, except financial, and material support for security and defence. The responsibility for local self - government is now vested in us. And we suggest that this responsibility be removed, because since 24.02, most of the communities have been assisted by the Armed Forces, aided by GURs, BSSs, other military units, and are now responsible. We suggest that there be no such responsibility in the future. And that's what this amendment is talking about. Colleagues, please support, it's essential to local self-governance.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u101	You will? The committee's position is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u102	Colleagues, in this direction, are invited to supplement the local budget costs with security and defence support costs. But in general, this direct expenditure is the function and mandate of the state, and then the state budget. At the same time, I want to point out that there are rules in the code that determine the mechanisms for transferring local budgets to appropriate measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u103	111 The Mikishi amendment with colleagues was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:36:40]] For-29 The decision is not taken. 112th, Mama. Don't insist. 113, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 114th, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 115th, the same authors. Don't insist. 116th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 117th, Fris. Don't insist. 118th, Mama. Don't insist. 119th, Fris. Don't insist. 120th, Alexiyczuk. Don't insist. 121st, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 122nd, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 123rd, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 124th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 125th, Eugene. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u104	Please, I have eighteen amendments: ten was before the first second reading and eight was before the second reading. I'm 10 minutes instead of 18 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u105	I mean, instead of all your amendments, 10 minutes. Please, Nina Petrovna, instead of all your amendments, 10 minutes of the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I would like us to respect each other, and yet I now see this as a parliamentary hearing. But it was done before the government registered the bill. We didn't have the numbers, and we didn't have enough information to figure out, let's say, even in the first reading of this bill. But to date, we've got enough information from places and we have a complete picture of what perception looks like and what the local authorities do during a large-scale war. I think you, colleagues, have also received all the references and wide-ranging decryption of the Ukrainian City Association, where you have provided complete information on how much VAT has come into the local budgets, how much has been spent on military direct funding and at other costs. And I'm absolutely ashamed of us that in the first months of the war, you didn't ask them, but how you eliminate the destroyed objects, how you help people, and how you provide them with their livelihood, where you find the resources and physical resources, and financially to eliminate the terrible consequences, and how society continues to believe in our victory. That's not what you did, central government, you didn't even think about it when it was, where the situation was in the community and where they found the resources to solve it. And they did the right thing because they are the consequences of decentralization, because they are responsible for the community’s sense of direction on the ground, and they don’t have to go up there and ask for every reason: give us a penny because we have something to do. Well, that's great, it brought the country together, we were all on the same breath, which is called. We all did our best to respond more quickly to the arrivals so that the infrastructure could be repaired faster, and we did not ask where the subsidies for these purposes were from the state budget, but we spent the local budgets. And it's a shame that in these few weeks, when we were preparing for the second, we couldn't even listen to the front regions. Frontal regions are crucial to us today. You asked Harkow how they'll survive tomorrow without that money? Well, how can we take such steps without understanding the consequences, the enormous consequences for the regions? It seems to me that in this reference to the Association of Cities, it is more than exhaustively written about the fact that at least 77 percent of the regions of the military PFC have spent. It's not just helping the security and defense forces -- it's providing the VPO, it's cleaning up and restoring the buildings and infrastructure destroyed by the explosions, it's maintaining hospitals, it's helping the families of military personnel, it's rebuilding the destroyed housing in the communities. We don't see any movement from any central funds, they're just local budgets. They also stress: How do you feel about your government decree of 1 / 06? 2023,547 owed them free food for 1 million 640,000 people, which would cost 28.7 billion dollars? But no funding was provided from the state budget. So this is a key question. We did not hear local self - government. It's embarrassing. And don't cover up, please, that these costs are necessary for the Armed Forces. I told you, if 77 percent were spent and so directly to support the Armed Forces and to deal with the consequences, what more do you want? And the Association of Cities and All Communities has asked us to do such a call that if you see and see the disorderly mayors, by the way, it's not nice to organize these rallies by bribing the type of activists, dancing around city councils and saying things about asphalt, talking about bruque. If you are really in power, make the rules of the local government’s security and defence budget, provide for the exclusive expenses to be spent on local budgets in order to achieve all the goals you set for yourself, and then we will see the country’s reunification again. Our responsibility together, we all have to work to win. That's clear. As far as our amendments are concerned. I don't understand why the budget committee didn't pay attention to not just counting the cost of a special road fund into the general state budget fund, but letting it go to a special program of crediting for the restoration of the defence complex, which my colleagues have already talked about. Well, it's a civilized transparent tool. You don't even read this. You're all applauding, and there are factions next to me who say, well, the road fund is going to be included in the general budget fund. No, you don't have to do that. Please listen when we are united around one goal. Of course, it's about regulation, spending free leftovers. Well, look, you want to put the order in order. At least write down the rules on where the money is to be spent. Again, a couple of blurry things they're going to pick up on. I can see that your fellow Servants of the Nation are preparing draft laws to spend the remainder of their free resources on some things that are definitely out of time and impossible. It's about cars again, about driving cars without paying the bills. How many times are you going to be on the same rake? Will it ever end or not? It seems to me that when we talk about the proportion and how the costs are to be spent, so you, I'm now drawing the attention of the Committee on Budgets, in the budget for 2024, you've written out a new formula for listing PFCs into a special fund, leaving that part in the public, in the general budget fund of the state budget, that part that came before, and in these amendments, 10037 a completely different mechanism. If you now accept 10037, how will you respond to the budget for the 2024 use of military PFCs? Of course he is. I don't understand why you passed this bill today, 10037. Make a small draft of the law, if you insist on taking the PDF into the local budgets in December, and then go out into the hall. Just put a "shadow on the knitting" here. Now you're just going to twist your powers and our forces, because there's another formula already in the budget for 2024, and it's all detailed. And as for this year's budget, the changes to it, you definitely can't do it the way you suggested. This has to be another way. And if you had isolated it and made it and quickly put it into the hall, maybe everyone would have supported it. So it's completely absurd right now, I just don't want to go to the amendments, because it doesn't make sense what you're doing right now, not technically, not really providing extra money to finance our security and defence sector. It is sad to see that no one responds. Well, in fact, the Ministry of Finance would have to react first. I'd like to ask you one more after my speech. Please explain the remaining local budgets for 01.10 this year, which have already been discussed here a thousand times, more than 200 billion. Are you going to remove them in some way into the state budget general fund or not? Will they be used as free fund balances at the end of the year according to the spending schedule you have planned? I want you to confirm from the rostrum, or break the myth that you're going to delete by force in an illegal way, or maybe legally, you're going to be developing some kind of regulation, but answer: will there be money left by the end of the year, even though it's on 01.10.2023? Thank you for your attention. And I ask you to take this project more seriously than we ever imagined. Because everything has already been significantly changed by considering other draft laws and opening a new window for cost theft. Note this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u107	Thank you, Nina Petrovna, thank you for yours. [[B in m in s a l in]] I just don't have a list of these amendments. Nina Petrovna simply said that she was eighteen and asked for ten minutes. I can't even do that. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Oh, the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u108	Dear colleague, I want to make it clear to you that we are only doing this in a legitimate way, in accordance with current legislation, and no one is going to remove anything by violent means. Now we're going to the law, and I'm hoping that the Supreme Council will uphold this law and that no politicians will manipulate us on the grounds that we're taking something from someone. We're simply transferring taxes to the country's security, which is the only goal. We're looking for a resource, and hopefully we'll all find it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 126th, Honcharenko Alexei. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u110	I have a request for an amendment of 126, 141, 176 and 177 to four, give me three minutes, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u111	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear friends, we're looking at a very important question, but I want to start today, after all, the Railroad Day. I would like to welcome all the railways in Ukraine and thank you for the colossal work they are doing to keep the country alive. Today the railway is like the back of Ukraine, where everything is held. It's also transportation, it's people, it's weapons, that's all. And that's why I'm so grateful. And of course, the best thanks would be if today, on Railroad Day, we made any decision to support the railways social. Because today, the wage levels at Ukrózlóznice are just terrible, it's just terrible! Because today the driver can get 4 and 5,000 bracelets, the machine driver is an overly over-responsible job – 8, 10, 11,000 bracelets. It's totally unacceptable, and those workers, they deserve totally different. But today we're looking at another bill: we're looking at a bill about how the authorities want to take money to local communities, and take it to the central budget to divide it in Kiev, divide it in the center, as if, of course, to cover it up with the military. If the really central authorities were concerned by the military, there would certainly be no history, as with the thirties promised by the end of the war, then taken away. Then in this session room, we passed the law on April 10th to return the 30th to all the military, police, lifeguards, but this law, as of April 10th, is blocked, so is the new know-how, the decree, and it's already what? Soon it will be eight months as it lies, a speaker, an unsigned president, unable to enter into force. If we really wanted to support the military, we would probably be looking at the demobilization bill after 18 months of service, which I did in March. And since then, he's been in the Supreme Council, even the Committee on Safety, the defense doesn't have the strength to look at it, but it just doesn't. By the way, where the deputies are now, and where, including these committees, the representatives, I don't know. There are about 40 deputies in the hall. It's our first working day in November. If the authorities really wanted to help the military, there would probably be no eggs of 17 bracelets, apples of 50 and other disadvantages. We've seen the findings of the Court of Auditors that, yes, the higher prices at the Ministry of Defense were. So you have to rip something off, like 17 bracelets, not leave it the way it is. And now we're looking at the law that tells us that for the military, for the weapons, let's take the money into the central budget. Once they're spent, we know it's all going to be: eggs 17, everything else. So we can't do that. We need to oblige local councils to make decisions in behalf of the military, not to take money from them, but to spend it on the military. This is the right approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u113	Please, come on. 127 repairs, Brainy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u114	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 127-134, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u115	Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u116	Thank you. First of all, I'm very glad that the committee representative admitted that political motivation outweighs common sense, because the corrections you've made in the past question, they stand far further than those of "Smart Politics." So you're taking control, and you're not taking smart corrections. It's very bad, but it's honest. If we talk to you about the PFO and the principles it works on, it can work if, for God's sake, this law is passed. Please tell me, well, there your representatives are telling me that this local authority has fallen on its head because of your "blameless" professional work. And the police, you're the PDFO, how do you get the scare out of what? They had it before the war, they have it now. These are the people who live there, the people who work there, unlike many authorities, didn't run away on the 24th, stayed with the local authorities on the spot, often organized defenses for these cities. Now their PDF should stay there. Which one? How much less so, what logic do you put this into a bill? Why did you decide that you could take all the money from the local authorities? Because you want to? In the past, I asked you a question, and why did you even think that you couldn't increase credit volumes and credit limits for the local authorities, you had a very interesting answer about what, and we're afraid that they wouldn't be able to pay it back. So as a representative of the committee, as a committee of profiles, as a majority representative, you can guarantee that you can provide a budget deficit of 50 percent that you're setting up and that you're preparing at budget level in the 24th year. So this will be your personal responsibility -- once as a national MP, as a representative of the government, as a representative of the President's party. And you guarantee these kinds of revenue by increasing your loans all the time. That's what I'm saying is that these loans you took last year by two, three percent, that you're going to be eight, and the next one is completely incomprehensible as to how much you're going to get. And it's not because the war ended there or because you're hopeless, but because our international partners see, including in the Times, that the authorities are making, like on the last day, I'm quoting international journalists, I'm not the one who made it up so that you don't tell me that we're playing politics. These are our international partners, and this isn't just Schuster's application, not just the journalist that the president was awarding him, it's the international position that's coming to you, it's not just that you're spending money that you haven't been able to use that state budget that was formed, that you've been trying to take money from the military that you've locked up and you're still not letting go. By the way, there's something I don't see from the Voice that blocked this bill, something about the Cabal, for example, I don't see in the hall that said it was bad for the budget. I don't see them in the hall, even though it's also a budget law, the principles of amendment are. I don't see any of those people's deputies who were there a few minutes ago telling me they came to hear constructive corrections. Now they're going to be constructive. Police work, she was constructive, you don't take her into account. Edit because you can't run the reverse force law from October 1st, you don't count it. To be able to get involved, it's not your money, it's going to involve the local authorities, you're playing with them in politics, you don't want them to winter, even though you haven't prepared yourself completely as a representative of the government for the winter. I understand it's not your profile committee, but you have a full responsibility. You're a representative of power, you're in a different position, unfortunately we don't hear it. And if it is, you can talk about it. But I'm not sure that you're going to stay a long time in power, that you're not going to have the same thing that happened to you, for example, the Force Commander of Special Operations that you just fired and even forgot to tell him. This is the approach of power: we don't give money here, and here we just expel a person, not even a word to him. We have to respect everyone!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u117	Let's move on. Dmitri Alexanderovich, the only one who is behind the constructive consideration of the amendments. I'd like to ask what I asked for the last time. It's hard to call the amendments constructive, where it's suggested to replace the words "such content" with "next content". Well, there's no such thing as "the next meaning." Let's go after the amendments that we have, we're going to have a deep discussion. And we're ready, and I think there's going to be more, so I'd like to ask, if I may, for the construction. Let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] What do we vote on? Come on. See, your honorary colleagues, 127 amendments to Razumkov, rejected by the committee, sound like a position to rule out. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet. I'm just reminding you what she's talking about. Because it's very difficult to understand what all the questions you've raised here are before the amendment to change "the content of that" to "the content of that," it's very difficult to understand. And I'd like to understand what this amendment is about. Dmitri Alexanderovich, once again, it's very difficult in this format to understand what we're voting for. So I'm putting 127 of Razumkov's amendment, it's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:58:43]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. See? Well, the majority of people have been most supportive of your amendment, and you're saying that somehow you're "impaired." So somehow it's unfair. Let's move on. Next, shall we move on, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Thank you. Let's move on then. The next amendment is 335, Krulko. Don't insist. 136, Iron. Don't insist. 137th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 138th, Black Sea with colleagues. Don't insist. 139th, Leonov. Don't insist. 142nd, Ariev. You will? Please, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u118	I'd like to ask, I have eight amendments now, give me five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u119	This is about the amendments 142, 178, 308, 543, 544, 618, 747, 748, 749. Is that right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u120	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u121	Instead, five minutes, and you're recording your revisions. Please, Mr. Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u122	Where I am the main author.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u123	Where you're the lead author. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u124	Sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u125	Yes, please, first. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, in fact, what we are discussing here is a different extreme from what we used to call a gravel, asphalt and so on. Yes, indeed, you can't spend money on asphalt during the war, on pavements where it's not explained, although even the street of Gruszewski on which we sit has recently been translated, and no one from Kabmin or the Supreme Council has really protested. But the time has come, okay, and the changes are about to begin. However, if we're talking about something that we need to make a difference, we're actually going to eliminate the problem, we're going to eliminate the whole house with the cockroaches, and we can get the cockroaches out. The Targans come out very easily. To avoid overexpenditures for incomprehensible purposes, there is a clear list of directions for which military PFCs can be spent during the war. If it's a question of bomb shelters in schools or bomb shelters at places of general use, it's a matter of defence. If it's a matter of cheating, buying electricity for critical infrastructure cities, it's a matter of defense. If it's buying energy for the city to function, or urgently repairing urban communications, which is also a critical infrastructure, then it's an emergency. But there are cities that have 600 percent of recovery, and there are cities where VAT is more than 30 percent or more of the total budget of an annual city. We're actually cutting everything. What will happen then? In many cities, there will be a deficit in funds. What is proposed? To compensate the government for these things through inter-budget transfers. But this mechanism alone is completely undetermined. He'll be the same as always when the mayor has to come and talk about what he needs to make up for right now because he's run out of money. If we do that, we are killing decentralization reform, which is one of the main ones on the road to the European Union. And today, European Commission President Ursula von der Ljaen spoke about the need for these reforms. Explaining this is essentially the need for defense. Other funds can be found for defense. Let's restore the gas rent in the same amount as before, or maybe maybe 40 billion dollars less in the next year's budget. And what's so amazing? Let's get less on the marathon, let's get everything in the road fund, let's put it on the defense issue right now. But what is happening today? The state structure is actually very volatilely provided by the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and by the middle of the year, orders are made by the Ministry of Defense on all matters. The elementary tires can't buy. There are no night vision devices, and our protectors go on night raids without them. This is very dangerous for their lives. However, local authorities can buy what is needed for the Armed Forces in just two weeks, maximum of 20 days, through the purchasing system. So let's not get rid of absolutely everything and not throw ourselves out of the one extreme where there was junk and asphalt, in order to get all the money out of the local budgets. Let's find something in the middle. But unfortunately, judging from what is now in the hall, my voice is the voice of the roaring in the desert. In order for Ukraine not to become so belligerent.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u127	Thank you. Let's move on. 143 amendment, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. Arthur Volodymyrovich, you have a lot of changes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who? Ariev? Ariev had already withdrawn his amendments. Arthur Volodymyrovich, he took off his repairs. Arthur Volodymyrovich, are you recording your revisions too? Arthur Volodymyrovich, you have 143, very important, repair. But we were saying that maybe you'd switch to the hour of the performance? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u128	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, as it will be, we will now think we are discussing here in the faction. But, dear colleagues, I really support what Nina Petrovyn said. I sincerely hope that those of you who are present in this plenary room are few, but some of you are very influential. I see Mr. Greensky's representative in Parliament, I see committee leaders, I see the leadership of the "Serve of the People" faction. So, I'm going to do every correction, I'm going to do some unifying. But I'm going to give the numbers, I'm going to give the thoughts, I'm going to give the reasons why this law, as it is now, cannot be voted down. We'll talk about corruption. We'll talk about stealing government money and local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u129	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. This is very important because this is a profound and fruitful discussion that should result in an even better law. Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. That was 143 amendments. 144th, Krulko. Don't insist. 145th, Mama. Don't insist. 146th, Prostuk. Don't insist. 147th, Grissom. Don't insist. 148th, Mazurau. I'm on it. 149th, Savichuk. Don't insist. 150th, Purtova. Don't insist. 151st, Mikisha. Are you insisting, Dmitri? Please, Dmitri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u130	Ruslan Alexiyovich, please 151, 152, 165, 2 minutes from the beginning, and me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u131	Please, two minutes for three revisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u132	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I explain what Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov said, and generally what "Smart Politics" says. We're just saying in these papers that are technical. Yes, there are technical things, but they explain in general what's going on with this bill, what we're cleaning and what we're changing to improve at least what you're proposing. And we're improving the next one. In general, this bill takes military PFCs and those of the military who are now in the territory of the community and those of the police, and representatives of the State Service experts from the extraordinary situations that have been before the full-scale invasion, are also taking money. And what's more, the remainder that's left of another activity of local self-government, where they're saving, is doing everything they can to save the money and use it effectively for another direction, for another activity, then it's going to do it. It can't be used in the middle of the year, it stays at the end of the year, then falls on the free leftovers, and then the community can use them. But you say that, no, you have to use it. And for what? You have to use it to pay off your debts. And that's exactly what Bill 10037 says. And now I'll explain to you what debts. In the 2024 State Budget, and the remainder will be for the following year, Minfin owed 10 billion dollars to the entire local government. These are the wrong costs that he has formed (pay attention!) the government of Januković. Moreover, it is not just local self - government, which miscounted the government, that they even set off the debt owed to local district government administrations. Hear this nonsense! And now you're saying that you have to use these leftovers to put this shit out.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear reporter, that's basically an amendment. No, you have the amendment to replace the words "such changes" with "next changes." Okay. Anyway, I'm just asking for a closer look at the amendments. Thank you, Dmitri, fine. Next up is 153rd, Vasilchenko. Don't insist with your colleagues. 154th, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 155th, Timoshenko with colleagues. They've already taken advantage of their rights. 156th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 158th, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 159, the same authors. Don't insist. 160th, Shapovalov. Don't insist. 161th, Bondar. Don't insist. 162th, Alekseiv. Don't insist. 164th, Eugene. I've already used it. 166th, Tistik. Don't insist. 167th, Mazurashu. I've already said it. 168th. [[B in m in s a l in]] 165th was already used, Mikisha and colleagues. 168th, yours. Guys, I'm clear. Please, Demchenko, 168th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u134	I am the elected National Deputy to the Majority District in Dnipropetrovsk District 29. There's this OTG in this district called Slobojansk, and there's 25,000 inhabitants. In this village, nearly 2.5 thousand persons temporarily displaced. The correct correction that I am now making is the initiative of these very people who have come to me and asked me to do everything I can to make this right go away. It applies in this case. Excuse me, it refers to the use of funds that remain in the community, including towards the restoration of living conditions for temporarily displaced persons. I understand that I and my powers are the only form now for people to use their form of government and it has been voted on. I'd like you to take this into account when you're in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, 165th. 168th, I'm sorry, Demchenka's amendment. She's been rejected by the committee. The author is requesting that this correction be taken into account. Please vote. [[17:11:46]] For-22. The decision is not taken. The amendment remains rejected. 169th, Nekludov. Don't insist. 170th Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 170 was that. 171, Savichuk. Don't insist. 172th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 173rd, Hero. She's already done this. What? Ten amendments, yes, used. And one of you separately, yes, 173 is this one. Please, 173rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u136	Please, two minutes, I have three amendments -- and I'm going to end up presenting this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u137	Okay. Please, two minutes in three. Please, Heratchenka, first.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is vital that we stick to the Constitution and common sense. Bill 10037 refers to the reverse action of the law, and they want to take 200 billion dollars in the region now, which they send to the Special Forces, at a time when the Ministry of Defence has created a special fund under Nazi standards -- a procurement fund. And I have one question to the bill introducing this bill: why are you sending the funds not to the Ministry of Defense by this bill, but to the State Department, to the Ministry of Strategic Affairs, and not to the Ministry of Defense, which should be responsible for the rear? Similarly, there are many other differences in this bill. I hope that those "servants" who stayed in the room read the Chief of Staff's article, where he pointed out how important for victory for fortifications are. Military and civilian administrations are responsible for the fortification of border areas. And ask a question to Smigal, who is not responsible for anything in the country, why still, after the liberation of Chernigovishte, the substance, the Harkishteen, there are no new fortification buildings and minefields on the border with Russia that can invade our territory again. We suggest that in Bill 10037 you hear the following logic: 10 percent leave in the regions and that these costs go directly to fortification buildings, bomb shelters and repairs of military sites, 30 percent to go to units, repairs, drone purchases, and so on, 35 percent to the Ministry of Defense, which is responsible for back-up procurement and so on, to the Ministry of Strategic Affairs. But not to hand out to their feds, you know, companies and firms that don't know what they're doing, but to let them go through credit, because then they're going to have to be responsible for these loans, give them up, and buy them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u139	Thank you. Please take the position of the committee on these amendments, as said by Irina Volodymyrna, 173rd and others, and the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u140	Dear colleague, you are proposing in your direction 173, in a different edition, to describe section VI, paragraph 22.8, "Final Positions". I would like to point out that the restrictions imposed on the use of the local budget's free balances on an exhaustive list of expenditures make it possible, in a state of war, to direct funds to protected and high-priority costs. And as for the fact that we don't give up on the army, well, that's not true. What DSSZI and Minstategprom are about to produce and purchase the products that will be needed on the front, that's the main goal. That's why we're asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u141	Thank you. Let's move on. 174th, Rubble. Don't insist. 175th, Kitzak. Don't insist. 179th, Gerasimov. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Ariev? Well, you used it. Well, a gentleman's word, well, Vladimir. Okay. Ariev, please, 179th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u142	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I said that I'm using the amendments where I'm the first author. But here is our joint amendments with Arthur Gerasim and Rostislav Pavlenko, and that is why I can take the floor. I'm stressing once again what I said in the previous speech. We don't have another way out of this, just to figure out the costs that military VAT money can go to during a state of war. Because if we cut this money out of the community's budgets right now, the communities are going to fall asleep. And it's going to be much worse, by the way, because we don't need internal tension, especially in the back. And she will if this bill is adopted in that way. Let's look for the gold inside, I'll tell you again. It's a normal story, it takes a smart approach, not the way it is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u143	Thank you. Thank you. Speaking of which, your last name for "A" is always the first one on the alphabet, which is why I figured it out. Let's move on. Next, 180th, Herasimov again, Pavlovenko, Ariev. Again, Arjev. Please, Volodymyr Igorovich, 180th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u144	I would like to stress again that decentralization reform has been one of the most successful reforms since 2024. And it's the question of what remains of the PFC in the communities that has helped the communities to develop. Yeah, now you can take part of the money for defense, yeah, part of the money, but not all of it. We need communities to continue to develop. Today in Parliament we had President Ursula von der Ljaen of the European Commission, and we are awaiting a decision on the start of negotiations with the European Union. But if we are talking about going to the European Union, we cannot adopt anti-European decisions. That's the logic. And once again, I urge you, we need to do more reform now and put all the relevant bills into the agenda. But what's happening right now is anti-reformation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u145	181, Krulko. Don't insist. 182nd, Batenko. Don't insist. 183rd, Mama. Don't insist. 184th, Grissom. Don't insist. 185th, Fris. Don't insist. 186th, Rapina. Don't insist. 187th, Tistik. Don't insist. 188th, Brainy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u146	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 188, 193, 194. These are analogous amendments, but I also hope that you will comment on them the same way, because they are more than specific. Give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u147	Give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u148	They're more than right. And you will also explain them to the hall. And I hope that they will vote for them by listening to you. And so I'd like to see where the critics who said there's no logical right here went. Let's talk logically, in common sense and in a reasonable way. What's the deal? This is a permit for local communities to allocate funds for defence, particularly in the context of military status, rural (rural) councils. They will be able to decide to provide financial, material support to the security and defence sectors, to approve local security and defence support programmes. This is exactly what this law should be about, which, for example, our colleague Dmitri Mikisha, who proposed that the local authorities be able not to come to them, as the D.B.I. is now doing, to have an opportunity within the framework of existing legislation that you don't want to adopt, to help local authorities. Helping with the costs of the sessions through programs, helping those who have been drawn out, on the PDD, or buying cars directly, buying drones that can't be bought by the central authorities, because as far as they haven't been on the front, they haven't seen any drones from the Drone Army. Maybe someone did, but unfortunately we didn't. And they didn't hear from anyone that they were seen. We can come with you, I don't know. Come on, Alexander Sergiyovich, Ruslan Alexiyovich, let's get together, I think maybe you've been here a long time, we'll talk, we'll see our protectors, where the Drone Army is. We can talk about it coolly because, really, you said then, Alexander Sergiyovich, what they are. But they're gone. Let's get together, see where they are. And I think it would be useful to show the armies how the Supreme Council is working hard to provide them. So I very much hope that these amendments will be voted on and supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u149	118th. Please give the committee a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u150	Dear colleague, see, the issue of supporting the security and defence sector from local budgets is already regulated by the Ukrainian Budget Code. Local councils may decide to transfer funds from local budgets to the state budget with further allocation of such funds by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as to recalculate other budgets in the form of inter-budget transfers to support the security and defence sector. So this amendment of yours has been rejected because we already have regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u151	Thank you. Let's move on then. 189 repairs, Babenko. Don't insist. 190th, Brainy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u152	Ruslan Alexiyovich, this is 190, 195, 209, 191 and 210, 211, 212.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u153	One second, 195.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u154	It's going to be a total of 212 revisions, what we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u155	I mean, 190-by.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u156	Yeah, that's seven rights. Give me five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u157	Please, five minutes. I'll take everyone to 215. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u158	You've come to work, haven't you, colleagues? If we're talking to you about what the reporter just said, you're misleading, because it's not material. Plus you want to take money from them into your state budget called your own, and distribute it instead of a particular community helping out a particular unit that's based on them. Please show me if this is in the current legislation. If there is, let's talk about it. You offer to take the money back to the state budget, then you get the permanent corruption scandals with inefficient spending on drums, inefficient spending. It's not local authority, is it? drums buying? This was purchased by WA (military administration). They bought the travellers for the budget money you gave them there. They bought everything else for millions of dollars. So - called repairs were made that are not available. And then you're saying that let's just pick up the local PDF again? Well, I think a lot of us can talk to you ministries, including the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, in other ministries: and where were they on February 24th? Where did they go, where were they headed? Unlike the local authorities, the local authorities remained largely, stayed in their seats with their communities, and assisted the army, assisted by the TRO, assisted by the SS, whose commander you so disgracefully released literally yesterday. Helped by GUR, assisted by Azova, helped by the 72, if we're talking about Kiev, which came from the march and took positions on the first line of defense on the Irpine River. And there weren't many ministries, they were on the far-reaching Western front. And it is because of the local authorities that the enemy is very often not there, not the central one. But now you've decided to take the money from them and distribute it again. Then you wonder why the articles in the Times say that no one believes in our victory, that there are articles about spending money out there, about huge corruption. This is not only a problem of authority, which is directly involved in this process – it is a problem of the whole state, because it beats everyone. It demoralizes our international partners, it doesn't help to contain the coalition that was formed around our victory. People are disappointed to see the approaches that we see in the central government today. And you just want to take another resource for yourself, for your own wallet and spend it where it's unnecessary, very often spending inefficiently, buying, repeating, buying. Now, you've got a nice name for a bill about the development of an industrial defence complex. We have almost two years of war. And let's say if you come, you know, to any investor, in this case the people of Ukraine are an investor who can give you money, maybe don't give it to you, you come and say, look, we did this one, here's the other one, here's the third one, here's the one we're releasing, here's the one we're releasing the drones, we've destroyed half the army of the racist drones. Not the volunteers, not the ones the army buys in their 30s, not the ones that provide international aid, but the ones that you've done. Show me what you've done. Unfortunately, there are no answers. And then you're going to tell me where your 152nd and 122nd caliber shells are, where are they? Well, you're on the front, I know you're talking to the defenders, right? What Is Missing? Do you have any tools? There are 122 mines? Are there 120 shells? None. Am I lying? Is this not the key that concerns our defenders today? And now you're almost at the end of the second year of war and you're saying, well, we need to take the money to the local authorities to put it somewhere else under the adjective that we're going to start building factories. What have you been doing for two years? Or say, we didn't do anything, we were such big professionals that we couldn't do the least in these almost two years of war, build our factories, and then let the Ukrainian people determine what to do with you. And until you do, let's not take the money in, very often, an effective user of Ukrainian communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u159	Thank you. It was 190, 191. What? It's not yours, I need everyone. Another hour? 30 seconds, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u160	Alexander Sergiyovich, put 190, 195 and 209. It's about giving local communities financial capacity to allocate funds to our advocates. Conceptual and absolutely correct revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u161	190, 195 and 209. Okay. I bet on the vote the proposal of the people's deputy Razumkov to take into account the number 190 of the authorship of Razumkov, Zagorujko, and colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:28:23]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I am betting on the vote on the proposal of the people’s MP Razumkov to take into account the order number 195 of the deputies of Mokan, Zagorujko, Soloduhy, Razumkov and others. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:28:51]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. And I'm voting on the proposal of the people's deputy Razumkov to take into account the number 209 national deputies of Petrunjak, Zagorujko, Razumkova. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:29:15]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Yeah, 192nd, Mazurash. Don't insist. 197th, Laba. Don't insist. 198, Vasilchenko. Don't insist. 199, Aleksiychuk. Don't insist. 200, Timoshenko. Don't insist. 201, Aliksiychuk. Don't insist. 202, Aliksiyczuk. Don't insist. 203, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 204, Bondar. Don't insist. 205, Bacon. Don't insist. 206, Bacon. Don't insist. 207, Yatzenko. Don't insist. 208, Alekseiv. Don't insist. 209, yes. And 209, and this is where it came in. Okay. 210. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Dmitri Alexanderovich, we've got 216 and you're still going, the block's big again. Yes, please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u162	There's 213 of us, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u163	We had the previous block.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u164	Until 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u165	By the 12th?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u166	Yeah. 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19th is seven rights. Give me five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u167	Five minutes. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u168	Alexander Sergiyyovich, respected colleagues, few respected colleagues who have unfortunately stayed in the Supreme Council Hall and who are not worried about how Ukraine will be tested in the winter! You just didn't vote for it. I'm sorry the Presidium didn't vote in favour of the 190, 195, 209. These are remedies that would allow local communities to allocate not only to defence but, in particular, allow funding for territorial defence, mobilization training, security training, design, construction, repairs, and protection of civilian defence facilities. And this would not only be about the issues of safe havens that might have kept our fellow citizens with you from the shootings that unfortunately we have to predict with you that this winter will be an area called "Russia" that will not stop anything, and they will be beating in civilian cities, in critical infrastructure objects. So what am I talking about in these papers? My colleagues in "Smart Politics" and I were just offering to do what the central government can't do because of probably the inadequacy and lack of expertise. Let me be excused, there are no ministries of profile today, but nevertheless. It's not normal when you and I are practically starting winter, thanks to God, it's warm because the heating season is up, but we're not ready for our critical infrastructure to be hit by the enemy. It's not normal when Najem speaks and says that we're just until the end, by the new year, the first of the 22 substations will be in order, that maybe they'll be protected somehow. And he says we're still going in this direction. And everyone else is for the rest of the winter. Tell me, please, this looks like a good standup, like a comedy show, not an approach to the state's position, to state policy, to preparing a country, a war country for winter. Are you and I forgetting what a white man is? And thanks to our energy sources (low-down), and thanks to the legacy (in this case in a positive sense) that we got after the collapse of the Soviet Union, we were able to get through it because our energies were very often actually connected by wires and we got electricity with you in 10 hours, in 5, in 4. In this sense, there is no such power, no protection, and we had to prepare for it this summer. You have not submitted any draft legislation that would allocate additional resources to this, you are not allowing this work to be done for you by the local authorities. I understand you've been using a lot of gossip. It's a shame, because it's because it's like translating brukovka or building stadiums in frontal areas or growing, sorry, flowers in Kramatorsky that's very nice, but it's not necessary. It's better to set up shelter, better prepare the infrastructure for the future winter, a hundred percent. But, look, you're not doing anything at all, you're not preparing the state's energy system for war. And with our proposals, we could, if you took them into account, allow the local authorities to prepare together with central government joint efforts, joint costs for the winter. And you don't. Then, when winter problems begin, who will be responsible? You're going to go out again and say, "It's not us, it's local authority." That's how you took the money from them. Are you prepared to have city dwellers, villages, villages come directly to you as majors and ask you to fix the plumbing, the sewers, the power grid, and so on? Somehow, I think the answer is no. I'd like to hear it from you. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u169	Are you going to put any of this on, Dmitri Alexanderovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u170	I'd like a committee position, if I may.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u171	Committee position. Please, Yuri Cusbitt.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u172	Dear colleague, I'd like to understand exactly how you're going to answer that question, because, for example, Let's go, love. Let's go. In the second paragraph of Chapter I of the bill, the word "free balance" is replaced by the words "unused funds." The answer. The proposed terminology is not in line with articles 2, 14, 72 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. So that's what I see in front of me is these changes that I can comment on within the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u173	Thank you, Yuri Mikhailovich. Dmitri Alexanderovich, 220 on. Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u174	At 224, give me 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u175	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u176	Yuri Mikhailovich, you must be in the rostrum, in power, not well. I asked you to answer 190. You know, 190 is 1, 9, 0. You would answer them, you wouldn't read them in a row, you wouldn't read them in a row, you wouldn't read them in a row, you wouldn't read them in a row, you didn't read them in a row, you didn't read them in a row, you didn't read them in a direction that your committee and you didn't take directly into account. Let us honor those who look at us with you. You don't respect the Council, you don't respect fellow MPs. I think unfortunately, well, it turns out that we don't have to demand respect and society either. But I asked you a question in a specific direction. You're starting to tell me any other story. You can even choose what you want in this table. You don't answer normally. See, because you don't have an answer. Give me a 190-way answer. It's okay. Is that clear? I really want to hear her answer, not take out any other one, including the technical one. There's no technical. When you hide bad laws under good names, it's not a technical amendment, it's a demonstration that in this case you already are, because it's a second reading again, you can't make the name of the law any more effective, I'm already silent about the law itself. Do you understand? You're still going to start by saying that the letter "b" doesn't match the letter "a." At 190, would you please tell me what it was impeding this law? Why you do not want to allow the local authorities, indeed, to train, including civilian infrastructure facilities before, including the heating season, shelters that will be essential for winter. Because your VA (military administrations) have already demonstrated themselves. We've seen several hundred thousand bracelets. We've seen very cool designers for a million bracelets. Put good control on everything. I don't care if there's a mayor or an O.T.G.A. in the area of stealing anything, you can also call them responsible, and I totally agree with you. We can even file a bill together. But let's make the law one for all, and for VA as well, military administrations that are appointed central government are appointed Cabinet of Ministers. This is the direct branch of the President's vertical branch, and yours, including as a representative of the government. So please, once again, so that we don't look for any other amendments, 190. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u177	Please, Yuri Mikhailovich. 190 revisions, that's what I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u178	Dear colleague, I may not have heard what you meant by 190. And the answer is yes. You suggest that paragraph 22.8 of the bill be amended in its own form. I would like to remind you that the Committee on Budgets has already established and supported the direction of using these funds, the free balance. The set limit on the use of the local budget’s free balance on an exhaustive list of expenditures allows military spending to be channelled to protected and priority costs without inefficient costs. I'm going to read it specifically for the transcript, so there's no double treatment. The proposed expenditure directions should be planned, as in your right hand, on the basis of current local budgets. In addition, there are directions in direction 163 that have been given and counted. So, I think we're going to stay on the structure adopted by the Ukrainian budget committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u179	Dmitry Alexanderovich, 225th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u180	Alexander Sergiyovich, let's do 225, even 249. That's what we have, three, six, nine, eleven rights. Give me six minutes. If you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u181	Come on. 249, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u182	No, it's not. 225 - 249.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u183	Okay. Please. Smart guy, 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u184	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u185	Oh, six minutes. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u186	Six I asked for, but eleven could do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u187	Eleven rights, six minutes. Yuri Mikhailovich is interested if you want an answer on one of the rights to highlight the number, and then he will take a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u188	In this case, no, in this case, the revisions really refer to technical ones. Yuri Mikhailovich, you won't have any questions. And in the past, I actually understand that you've prepared the answer to the secretariat, and I know that you're a professional person, and you're learning about what the committee's doing, but I really wanted you to not just read it, but you've given a comprehensive position as you know it. Because it's easy to read. So the people who are looking at us, I'm asking you, why don't we help the central authorities at the expense of the local authorities to prepare for the winter, so that they have heat in their homes, that they have light in their homes, that they have gas in their homes, that they have water, that they don't have sanitation, that many other things that bother every normal citizen, sometimes even the national MPs? And you tell them it's 218th, 38th and so on. That's it. Well, let's respect those who look at us. In simple words, you can explain why you don't want to support this completely logical revision of the "Smart Politics" team. To respect me, to respect myself, to respect those right-wing authors who prepared it. It's easy to respect people, and then you and me, maybe as national deputies, we'll use respect, not the way we do. Oh, come on. There is no corner, Marianne Volodymyrna, who asks appropriate questions, and she does not go to the hall herself. Then we look at the result that we're getting in her so-called polls. I realize that the cadence for someone is coming to an end, but it seems that some national MPs have started new professions for themselves, become sociologists. But you have to learn, it doesn't work that way. It's just that in Facebook, you wrote a request -- and everything, and it ran. No, there's math. And that's where you have to go to meetings, because to count your salary, I think everyone's really good at it. Because today a colleague tells me that I get paid on time. It's cool that you get paid on time, and there are delays on the front. He's got salary delays, you know, and he doesn't have a deputy, so he's fine. And then we marvel at the results of such surveys that MPs hate. So how do you want to be treated? If you want to be respected, you have to respect people. They chose here, they hoped it would be smart, that it would be professional, that it would be people who would care for the country, not just for their wages. Which, whatever the corrections are, are good, bad, but you have to listen to them, because you didn't have time to read them, you didn't have time to read them, because you actually got information about this law being considered today, you got half an hour before the meeting. We're there a lot. I went to the head of parliament, but in 10 days, I could have given it back then. It's a great law. I completely appreciate it when there are little laws on multiple rights. You don't understand, we had a mission with colleagues from "Smart Politics," we had our supporters. Here we are, and they say, "Are you all there in adequate?" Here's a bill that you're going to give you to go abroad for 13,000 dollars. You know what they told me? "Let me give you 50 now, so I'm 50 now, not just those who haven't been mobilized yet, but we're going to pass this law." And that's what the authorities are proposing. "Fifty I am now entering and leaving this country." This is said by a volunteer who has gone 24 numbers and is fighting all the war. She's not sitting in the back, she's not hiding in Kiev, she's not running off on the muzzle, she's risking her life every day. I've been talking to her for a while now, and I can watch her change her ways, and he's got approaches. As he said a few months ago, "Who but us," and how he's saying it now. Do you understand? And they say when they're on the phone, and we're actually looking at what's going on in the hall, they say, and please tell me, and if I'm out of the unit, here's actually how it is, they're offering us a battalion to form, a parliament, so that's almost enough for the battalion. And tell me, if the battalion stays, how many of us, the people of 25 in the hall, yes, the rest, will we hold? You don't think they can see that? Despite the strained battle schedule, they have plenty of time. So they call and they say, "That's not supposed to happen, that's not right. And I know it's wrong, and my colleagues with you think it's the right thing to do. If we don't. You know, there are phrases: If you don't feed your army, you'll feed someone else's. Then in this case, if you don't respect your army, it will cease to be yours. It's a good lesson to teach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u189	Yeah, 225th. 226th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th. All of it. It's all yours. 235th, Arahami. Don't insist. You see, unaccounted for, even for the direction of a majority, you say. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's his business. It's a testicle. Overruled. Don't insist. 237, Vasilchenko. Don't insist. 238, Bacon. Don't insist. 239, Schulak. Don't insist. 240, Eugene. None. 241, Mazurashu. Don't insist. Goncharenko, 242. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u190	Thank you. Please, Mr. Alexander, the following are 242, 297, 307, 352, 438, 455, 456 and 478. That's eight rights, please give me six minutes, and one of them I'll put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u191	Let's do it again, 352.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u192	Next, 438, 455, 456, 478.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u193	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u194	Six minutes and one check.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u195	Okay, Hotcharyenko, six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear friends, we have a very important discussion right now, and it's a shame that there are no deputies. But people will see it, and they will see it in a broadcast. And I think it's very important for them to see that in the Supreme Council, the issues that really concern them are raised. Because, well, people say, how can a nurse-laborator live on the 5,000 dollar salary he gets today? This is what they are concerned about, but it is not discussed in the Supreme Council. We're just talking about how to take the money back to the central budget. But the question of people is, how do we survive the teacher of a young person for 5,000 dollars of wages, for 5,000 dollars, how? How to survive. Well, it's a very gruesome story, and we're told by the authorities: this bill is to take the money to help the army. We have people in the army today who are out of the state called. For example, it is not suitable for MCS, but it is suitable for ground troops that are not fit for marine infantry but are suitable for land armies. They're not being transferred for months, they're being brought out of the state in D.S.W.A., respectively, in the Marine Corps. Or if it's limitedly diseaseable, it's out of state, and these people get 500 or 700 dollars a month. A month! We see the news there all the time: that MP bought himself a new car, he bought himself a house, he bought a mansion, he had something else, and we have people who gave up their health for the state -- 500 or 700 bucks a month. Well, it's a disaster! This is what we need to talk about, and such laws need to be adopted. Well, no, it's not there, it's not there. We've got, well, everybody's already saying that, says The Economist in his interview. He says that the main question is people, human potential. What's wrong with people today? We lose people three times every day. Yes, of course, we were attacked by an enemy, and people are killed on the front, and people are killed in the back of enemy shelling. Yet, humans are not yet born. What did we do? Eighty-six hundred bucks a month for a kid? So it's impossible to keep a child at all costs. And nothing changes, no change, no indexation. Once again, there is nothing in this law about this either. We have a third -- people don't come back from abroad. Why don't they come back? But it's mostly women with kids. Where will they learn, their children, and how will winter be, and how will the school be warmed? Are there any answers to these questions? None. No answers to these key questions. Today, we have the aid of a disabled person, a disabled person, to help him find someone who can care for him every month — 50 bucks a month, 50 to five. This coffee doesn't cost that much in a coffee shop in Kiev. Fifty bucks a month. We still have it. Human pensions are 2 - 2, 200, 2,300 per month. So we're talking to you now about the budget that needs to be budgeted. Obviously, the army, everything to win, everything to win, everything to win, it's a social unit, so people can just survive in this difficult time. All of it. There's nothing left. And again, we have TV shows, drums, whatever you can find and nothing can be solved in that direction. We're not talking about corruption. When Time magazine says that they steal like that, it's like tomorrow's not gonna happen. Well, do we even understand what we're doing, and how dangerous is this? It means that we have a conversation, not only in general, but also in specific adjustments. I'll put to the vote number 352. It's an amendment that predicts, well, you're going to remove now the military's military funds from local communities, military, even though you're saying, "We want to join the army." As you give money to the army, everyone knows. Eggs of 17 bracelets, everyone saw. Well, okay, they're military. What are the cops doing here? What, a cop doesn't live in a community? His family doesn't live in a community? Why are we going to take their PDF into the community? Why? Not enough that the military, the police, the rescuers were not returned to the '30s' which, by the way, Zelensky had promised, he would be told by the end of the war. The war didn't end - the '30s' ended. By the way, Zelensky promised us that he would not go to the second term, and he promised that there would be no elections during the war. And now I hear he wants to go to the election and he wants to go to the second term again. Well, something all his promises are so "tiny." So back to the cops. Police officers, why do we have to take their PDF into the community? What is the logic of this? Then why don't we take it all? Why don't we take away doctors, teachers? What difference does it make? Why do we take it? So my amendment is very simple: remove the police. They live in communities, their families live in communities. In fact, the families of the military also live in communities. Okay, so that's what you want to do with the military to take out the PDF, so let's not touch the police's PDF, let's leave something to the community. And of course, we're going to demand that they help the army, not do business, not spend money on madness, gossip, anything else. But who showed them the example? Central government. I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u197	I'm betting on the vote number 352 at the offer of Hotcharyenka. This is the editing of the potterenko. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:55:04]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 243, Hero. Don't insist. 244, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u198	Well, Reverend Alexander Sergiyovich, distinguished colleagues, we begin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u199	How about two, two minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u200	No, no, I'm one at a time, with the vote, I'm all right, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u201	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u202	So, what do we start with? What is this bill about, dear Ukrainians? This bill is about taking money from local communities and passing it on to the central budget. That's if it's easy. Now, pay attention! Do we trust the way the central budget spends money today? Let's start talking about it. And here I am starting and holding in my hands the report of the Court of Auditors, and I'm going to demonstrate to you the spending of the Ministry of Defense in 2023. What is he talking about? We'll talk about this in more detail in the following amendments, but he says that even after the 17 egg scandal, the money was stolen at twice the rate. And the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u203	I am betting on the vote on the proposal of national deputy Gerasimov to take into account the order number 244 of the national deputies Gerasimov, Pavlovka, Ariev. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:56:46]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 245, Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u204	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. So here I am holding this report and (pay attention!) What are you talking about? Perhaps everyone remembers the great scandal when it was discovered that the eggs cost 17 bucks. Then it turned out that the kilograms were being bought, to be exact, they wanted to represent it that way. However, after the scandal, the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Reznikov, reported that everything had been corrected, prices had been reduced. And then this report was commissioned. What did this report show? Prices were really down; the eggs began to be purchased in the Minobrons, not by 17 but by 9 bracelets. But in this report, and I would like to thank Mr. Meisner's deputy head of the Court of Auditors for this truth, the same report shows that all other security and defence authorities bought these eggs for 5 bucks, 5, 5, 30, 5. 40: both the Security Service and the Border Guard.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u205	I am betting on the vote number 245 of the national deputy Gerasimov, Pavelka, Ariev at Gerasimov’s suggestion. Please vote. It's rejected by the committee. [[17:58:18]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 246, Batenko. Don't insist. 247, Francis Igor Pavlovich. Don't insist. 248, 49. Discussed. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich, 250th. What's that, 48th?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u206	48th, 50th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u207	And you said 249, just last time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u208	It's not mine, it's not mine, it's not mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u209	Okay. 248, Mikisha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u210	Alexander Sergiyovich, 248, if possible, 250th and 253rd. I've got three minutes to stay here.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u211	Please, Mikisha, three minutes. From the beginning, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u212	From the beginning, if you don't mind. What are these adjustments about? We all know that there is such a road fund in Ukraine. And they've also created around him, let's say, a sad reputation, because he, this road fund, is providing the Great Building, but not just that. The road fund is discredited just as local self - government is now being discredited. But the road fund, it's not only about roads there that are huge international, national, regional -- it's also about it providing critical infrastructure, it's providing bridges that are now crashing and falling. That's what this fund is all about. This fund also provides funds for road safety. This fund also allocates funds for local roads: 35 percent of it goes to local roads. I'll remind you that the bill that we're looking at, 10037, takes away the military PDF, takes away the PDF, which is paid by police and DDSN employees, the State Service, from emergencies. So there won't be any money in the community. If you need your community, you need to quickly repair the proper road cover, the appropriate equipment for safe traffic on the road -- this is not only because the military PFC is being taken away, but because the bill is taking money from the road fund. What do we see? In local government, military PFCs are taken, roads are taken, roads are safe, and communities near the front are on the road near the war zone. There, the technique generally travels heavy and destroys the roadside canvas. And it breaks down another way: both pedestrian crossings and stops, and all the signs are coming from this road fund. And now we're getting out of this. It's not us, it's this bill. It's "Smart Policy" that says that these changes say that we should rule out this initiative: take everything into the community and primarily from the road fund. I repeat, even those bridges that are destroyed and will fall soon, because they are an emergency, they also come from this appropriate road fund. And we're taking all the money from them! That can't be right. Why would this critical infrastructure exist? We can't secure our economy! We can't take the goods! We must maintain our infrastructure at these costs. So I'm asking you to support this right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u213	You're gonna put them on, aren't you? I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the MP Mikishi to take into account the Committee's rejected amendment number 248 of Mikishi's authorship, Zagorujko, Babia and so on. Please vote. [[18:02:33]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. From 251, Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u214	Alexander Sergiyovich, 251, 252, 254, 255 and 6th. Give me three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u215	Please, three minutes, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u216	It's true. You don't have enough conscience to call them technical regulations, the title papers are just about the so-called "Great Building". When you were comfortable with it, you made a full - time contribution and spent it wherever you could not. So, for example, for the construction of the Odessa route in the summer of 22, when we were going on a cruise, there was construction, no road repairs, just what my colleague, Dmitri Mikisha, had just said, that you didn't spend where you needed to go. You didn't spend it on roads, you just put it on a pad so that the guys from the front of the medallion could get to the stables, not spend it. There were roads: a healthy person is going -- she could come in sick, and I'm not talking about the wounded at all. I'm already not saying that this directly ruined the technique in which it happened: the vans, the jeeps, the pickups, the vans, the vans, the vans, the vans, the vans, the vans, the vans, the vans, the vans, the vans, the vans, the vans. But if you spent the cost of repairing these very roads, not, for example, in Chernigow right now, maybe more boys and girls are still alive, just physically still alive. They'd be taken to the stables, then taken to Zaporozhye, Dnipro, Kramatorsky, and saved there. But you didn't, you had to spend this money building roads you didn't have to do that on. For construction, not repair, I repeat. Our rights are just offering to take this money from the entire road fund and send it to the military, 50 percent to buy weapons, 50 percent to ensure that our defenses don't run out again in the middle of the year, don't whine or tell them that the military asked them to take the '30', they asked them to take the 'percent', they asked them not to pay in the first place, and then someone would come out very smart, and they would say that they actually asked them to pay for the construction of the roads themselves, because some officials just don't have a conscience. And now it looks like a joke, and after six months it might actually look like a reality. I won't be surprised. So, your honor, I'm going to ask you for confirmation. I'd like to hear the committee's 252nd or 254th position. These are the ones that are just the principle of why you don't want to put this money right into the army. I don't have to tell you that you're just going to put it into the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u217	Please, Yuri Mikhailovich, 252nd, 254th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u218	Thank you. My dear colleague, look, this rule you're proposing will result in a loss of the general budget fund of the state budget of 95.2 billion. And what I want to remind you is that it's the salaries of the military personnel that are being done, not the special fund where you propose to redirect these funds, but the general fund of the state budget, and it's at the expense of these funds that we're going to be able to form both the pay and the aid to the army and so on. So the proposal to exclude 59 points is not supported by the budget committee, because there is already, let's say, a position on the fact that this money is being sent to the general fund and used to protect the country's ability, particularly to collect salaries for military personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u219	Don't you put it on, Dmitri Alexanderovich? 252th, 254th? I bet on the vote the proposal of the people's deputy Razumkov to take into account the issue number 252 of Petrunjak's authorship, Zagorujko, Razumkova. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:07:15]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And so I'm voting on the proposal of the people's MP Razumkov to take into account the issue of 254 Mokan, Zagorjejko, and colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:07:42]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dmitry Alexanderovich, 257.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u220	257-264. Give me five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u221	Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, you have now left the money for the designers, for the passenger compartments. What else did the Kyiv military administration, appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Office of the President, buy? We had drums, I forgot, I'm sorry. How could I miss such an important aspect? So you left the money for it, and the military didn't. Because, Yuri Mikhailovich, you said the right thing, especially when it comes to paying off our defenders. And I'm not suggesting anything special, I'm offering you an exclusive. So one word changes completely. Where will the money go? Especially for apples, especially for eggs, especially for shells that don't exist, especially for ducks, for designers, for Big Building, for huge corruption, especially for things that can't be spent in a normal state during war, and especially on the salaries of our defenders. And with the Smart Politics team, we're not offering to do anything special, we're offering to pay off these funds to our advocates -- once, to buy, to repair their weapons -- two. So you don't have the power to take this money and redirect it somewhere. You don't know how to do that? Don't you know how to make these funds? Let me help you. Are you ready to sit down now? There is also the head of the committee, and there is the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, we can write such a bill fast enough if we want to support it. You know how to do that, don't you? I'm sure you do. If not, I will help, my colleagues with pleasure, the more that now, given what's going on in the hall, we can't vote for any bill at all, for amendments including. But still, you're breaking it. And we're going along these lines. You know how to write a bill like that, don't you? Then just answer if you want to -- if you want to make an army better, if you want to increase the security of our state, not if you want to send the money back to the boiler. and in the trough, from which all will eat, except for the provision of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Do you understand? That's what we're different in, that's what our approaches are different from what you're voting for. Well, it's crazy when someone makes a decision, and then you try to put it on a globe. It doesn't work that way. It's a direct demonstration of what you don't care about the army, no matter how defensive, no matter what our defenders are. I'm not taking you personally right now, I'm taking the whole power approach, because the costs. Today, every bracelet on top of it has to be sent to provide security and defense forces, and you send them anywhere. And then you go out again in January and you say, there's no way to pay the military or the budget or the doctors or the teachers. You're not going to save money on your roads again, are you? You won't. Because the team will continue to fund them. And to provide for those who deserve it exactly: the medics who are actually at war on the other front, the teachers who are preparing our future with you to keep this state, you're not doing it. Sometimes it seems to me that everything is done to destroy the future of this country, to sow disillusionment among our advocates, to sow despair among our people, that we are going the right way, and that we can be a successful country. Everything is done to stop people from believing. And you know, unfortunately, talking to the military, talking to people on the streets, that's what you do. You are able to destroy faith in our country, faith among our citizens with you, faith in our future succeeds after victory. But this is definitely the wrong way.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u223	Do you put any of them to the vote? Okay. 257. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Sorry, 265.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u224	265th, and let's do 281th. Give me 7 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u225	Seven minutes. Smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u226	Alexander Sergiyovich, distinguished colleagues, continued what I just said. You and I live in two parallel realities. There is a front, there are those on the front, there are those living next to the front, there are those under fire every day, and there's another part of the state that's starting to fear people in shape. We've all seen and heard this disgraceful incident from Azova's patronage when they came, and they're told, "You go somewhere, because we've started to fear uniforms." Didn't you hear? I see you haven't heard. I'm so sorry. That's true. And we've got a lot of people in shape in the Council, and we're not afraid of anything. And given that those who have the right, there are not so many who have the right to wear the uniform. The form is really needed on the front, the form is needed closer to the front. But in Kiev you can walk without form. But not our protectors. For them, it's respect, it's achievement. And in fact, a year ago, everyone was praying for this form, you know. Everyone was just praying. Today, someone is allowing himself to take a stand for you to step aside because we're a little scared. Do you understand? And this is a demonstration of what starts from above. I repeat, there are areas where people have exactly the right to wear uniforms. We can go to Zaporozhye, we can go to Kharkiv, we can go to Dnipro even where something flies in every day, and here we can do a little differently: pyariate, help the army, respect our defenders, make them feel this respect. And when we're adopting laws to fill a government budget under the guise of what we're helping people in shape, and in fact, we're trying to send it anywhere, it's just embarrassing. I very much ask you not to support this bill. You're not only going to ruin the reform of local self-government, which you've talked about a lot about, is that it's one of the best and most effective reforms, and in fact there were a lot of right things, but you're going to destroy here the system that is today, the system that can and works, unlike the central authority that demonstrated itself at the beginning of a full-scale invasion that ensured the outcome that it is. I don't want to go to the staff right now, but we can give a lot of examples in the Kharkiv region, we can give a lot of examples of the Kyiv area, a lot of examples of the narrowing direction, the Donetsk region. Yes, there was a VCA, and we need to give proper guidance, and they also demonstrated enough serious efficiency in their activities. But let's approach any process with intelligence, let's approach the logic, not just the thoughtlessness of someone's quests and tasks, but to make those laws that we have adopted, they go for the benefit of the state, for our security, for our army's sake, for the benefit of our people, and not just for the benefit of the individual companies that are going to make it by selling the form at higher prices, building the roads, buying the commission. I don't want to say again about the 17 eggs that the Court of Auditors has even given us information and demonstrated what huge losses we have in the state budget. And I'm actually surprised the profile committee hasn't heard this report yet. Why? You didn't have time for that? Well, it's time to prepare 10037 and listen to Meisner, listen to the members of the Accounting Chamber, to understand, and how it happens, that in a warlord state, we're just disbursing the funds that the House of Auditors is talking about. This is an organ of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I would like to remind all of you, those who do not know, or those who do not remember. Let's invite him to the hall, it's not a closed report, it's open, it's public, let him give his position, let him point it out, and let someone take the responsibility for it. Or we talked and forgot again, or we're still working on the principle: the enemy is the law, and our own is everything. This should not be the case in a normal country that struggles for its independence and wants to build a European state. Mrs. Ursula was here today, and those who came to listen to her are probably sitting in the cafe, drinking coffee, because I can't see them in the hall. Those who spoke highly of conceptual remedies. We've just put up conceptual rights, talked to them, something's gone, big struggles for democracy, the rule of law and business freedom. Now, please tell me, in the European Parliaments, do laws on ensuring local self-government and the security and defence sector deal with the same thing, or don't they? You want to go to Europe with one hand or one foot, and the other foot, I think you're going somewhere else, exactly. That's not exactly what you want to go after the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u227	Thank you. Yes, 283, Arahami. Don't insist. 284, Laba. Don't insist. 285, Laba. Don't insist. 286, 287, 288, 289, 290, 291, Laba. Don't insist. 292, Tabal. Don't insist. 293, Bresin. Don't insist. 294, Masurash. Please, Mazurash Georgy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u228	That's what I'm talking about. I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u229	294. Set it up?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u230	Yeah, yeah, I'm on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u231	Okay. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the national MP, Mazurasu, to count the number 294. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:20:54]] For-13. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 295, Necluded. Don't you insist? Okay. 296, Cabal. Don't insist. 297, Goncharenko. We seem to have made it clear. Yes. 298, Savichuk. Don't insist. 299, Ephimov. Don't insist. 300, Vasilchenko. Don't insist. 301, Vasilchenko. Don't insist. 302, Kick. Don't insist. 303, Bezgin. Don't insist. 304, Hero. Don't insist. 305, Ruble. Don't insist. 306, Žmerenecki. Don't insist. 307, Hotcharyenko, lighted up. 308, Ariev, explained. 309, Batenko. Don't insist. 310, Batenko. Don't insist. 311, Mama. Don't insist. 312. Arthur Volodymyrovich, 312, there's your last name, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u232	319.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u233	319, okay. 313, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 314th, Grissom. Don't insist. 315th, Yatzik. Don't insist. 316th, Fris. Don't insist. 317th, Spinov. Don't insist. 318th, Spanov. Don't insist. 319, Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u234	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Let's keep going. Well, colleagues, there are only 17 "ministers of the people" in the room, they don't care. But I have to point out that the most disciplined, this is the law enforcement committee, where I see the head of the committee, I see a lot of the committee members who are now present in the hall. Well, that's very true, because the information that I'm going to tell you right now, it's probably going to be very interesting to those people's deputies from the law enforcement committee who are also, let's say, running law enforcement agencies. Look, I'd like to show you a table, I don't think the viewers will be able to see it, but, nevertheless, it's a board from the Court of Auditors' report, which clearly says that it's better not to put money into the central budget because the reporting and accountability of local communities is better, because there's a mayor walking the streets and talking to voters. Oh, sorry about the ministers at the central level, they'll probably get caught a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u235	Thank you. 319 amendments, Gerasimov. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[6:23:44]] For -14 The decision is not taken. 320th, Gerasimov. Let's try it again, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u236	Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, so look, in the account report, I've already expressed my gratitude, but once again I thank Mr. Meisner's deputy head of the Chamber, it's clear that after the egg scandal of 17 they've reduced the price of eggs -- they've become 9 bracelets for a piece. But somehow the scouts bought them at 5:30 a.m., at 5:23 a.m., at 5:27 a.m., and at 5:46 a.m., at the University of Shevchenka at 5:50 a.m. And you know, I even asked my friends to take a ride through the Donetsk district supermarkets almost on the front line. Here, the most expensive eggs were found in Constantine’s home: 6 bracelets apiece. Do you understand what that means? That means it's cheaper for the military to go to a supermarket near the front line to buy eggs than to get them from the Ministry of Defense. And that's what this is about in this report that we're going to talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u237	320th Gerasimov Amendment, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:25:10]] For-9 The decision is not taken. 321th, Rapina. Don't insist. 322th, Rapina. Don't insist. 323rd, Rapina. Don't insist. 324th, Rapina. Don't insist. 325th, Mazurashu expressed himself. 325th, Mazurashu. We agreed that we were voting on her. Yeah? Please, 325th. Mazurasu's speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u238	I'm out, seven rights, and it was five minutes. Now, please, 325, 523, 573, 760, 960, 1809, 1090th, please, 5 minutes. And I'll put one, 325, on the count.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u239	325 on the count. I mean, please, five minutes. Let me repeat: instead of 325, 523, 573, 760, 960, 1809, 1090. Is that right? Please, one minute. Oh, not one minute. Five minutes. Please. Masuras.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u240	George Mazurashu, Servant of the People, 203rd District. They mentioned polls, and I realize that it wasn't very good, and I don't support this kind of work, but I can explain why there are results, why there is such hatred, especially to parliament and the people's deputies. Yeah, we take a lot of things in here that we don't understand for our voters sometimes, for the people. And by the way, this is what our partners in Switzerland stressed when we discussed one of the draft laws, and they diplomatically said that it was too difficult, they had, you know, a lot of referendums going on there, and they said that if you were such bills, the laws passed would be passed on to you in a referendum, they would be put to a referendum, people wouldn't vote. Even maybe not because they don't support it, but because they just wouldn't understand it because it's too difficult. And in this case, I emphasize that unfortunately, many of our voters, citizens, readers, viewers, consumers of these different manipulations are not very aware of what they are really talking about. We've got so many manipulations of walking and fakes of different kinds that it's even happened that the video with the speaker, with Ruslan Alexiyovich, is spreading where the sound doesn't even match the movement of the lips, as they say, but, nevertheless, many people are even interested in higher education whether it's true. And it's crazy when our system doesn't respond to it or can't resist it. This was mentioned here, by the way, by the law enforcement committee, and this is, by the way, their stone in the city, because we're being manipulated, and we don't have an adequate response and an adequate fight against these manipulations. And that's the problem. And this is, by the way, one of the reasons that these are the results of different surveys. But that's the way I want to emphasize, there was a reference, by the way, to a nameless and nameless bill, but they mentioned the bill that I was drafting. I just want to pay attention, with respect, I always show respect for my colleagues and other representatives there of the various authorities, that this is not the law that was passed, its number 8029, since last year, since September last year. The government submits if Kabmin submits, or if there was a decision by the faction of our "Serve of the People" to support this bill. No, it was I, as Ukraine's national deputy, George Mazurasu, elected to the 203rd district in the Chernivecki region. And I say that this bill is supported by an absolute majority, and in principle, no one has objected to this initiative from my constituents to whom I communicate. By the way, I advise other colleagues to communicate with those who first authorized you to work in Parliament. That's important because it doesn't make sense when we're told by opponents or opponents that we don't work like that and so on. The moral right to influence us as elected national deputies is primarily exercised by those who have chosen us and authorized us. Now it's about this bill, and it's about the funds that are essential to support the army. I'll communicate with the military very much. It is popular to say that it is fashionable to mention travel and communication. It happened that once in my midst most of the military were volunteers, I showed them special respect, respect, gratitude. And in particular, there are those who returned from abroad after 24.02.2022 and went to the front as volunteers. And they think I appreciate it very much, too. But, excuse me, I would warn my colleague that they would give something to hear some sort of military position there. You have to be correct. There are different military positions on the front, even in the trenches. And that's got to be understood and respected and given information because they have a different position. And we need people in our democratic country, even though they're not afraid to express their position, because we have some elements, excuse me, of the persecution of those who are moving away from a single-phone position. And the law applies to leaving the local communities, but 70 percent point to.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u241	Thank you, George Igorovich. 325 Mazurash's amendment, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:31:30]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. 326, Pivovarov. Don't insist. The noun does not insist today. 327 Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Thank you. 328, Laba. Don't insist. 329, Mikisha. Please, Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u242	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 329, 331, 334 and 337 are four three-minute corrections, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u243	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u244	From the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u245	Yeah, start over.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u246	Well, what's all this about? That's the main point that we're proposing in these revisions. See, now the income tax of the natural persons we're talking about and the portion of it -- the military VAT -- is generally paid to the local communities for 64 percent. This was an arrangement, up to 60 percent, or 4 percent, as if it were a local government. But in the Budget Code, this 64 percent is temporarily fixed in Transitional and Final Positions, which is a temporary rule. We suggest that it be constantly operational and amend the Budget Code so that the corresponding regulation, i.e. 64 percent of the PDF per community, remains on a permanent basis in the Budget Code. That's the first one. Moreover, the European Union, the European Commission, has noted that progress in decentralization has been marked by an appropriate standard and has given us an additional ball on what we have attached. But they have no idea that we have some, let's say, good people in power have a desire, on certain conditions, to take back up to 60 percent. That's why it's still in the Final and Transitional Positions. The Eurocomy doesn't even understand what this is, what is the progress of decentralization, someone wants to unwrap it. That's the first one. Second, first of all. We suggest that if there is already an initiative to take away the military PDF or something, we suggest quite another. Why, in general, do you want to be taken away, as we are told? In order to fill exactly the defense fund to help the army. This is what we propose, and we suggest that 50 percent of the total military PFCs received by the community should go to the military units of the security and defence sector. That's half. The other half goes, a lot of it goes right back to the domestic government loan bond (VAT), from which it also goes to the army. So we're already proposing how to do this in today's reality. You don't have to take anything! We offer effective mechanisms. First: 64 percent in the body of the Budget Code, that's one right here. And the other thing is that 50 percent of the military VAT is sent from the community to the military units in the defence sector, and another part of the time, which is there, to the DDP, which is also being sent to the army. All right, you don't have to invent anything, you don't have to roll anything, you don't have to take anything. And then the U.M.S. will help the army.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u247	Thank you. 330th, Krulko. Don't insist. Set up 329th, right? Please, Your Honor, 329 amendments to Mikishi's authorship and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:35:41]] For-12. The decision is not taken. 330th, Krulko. Don't insist. 332nd, Babenko. Declined with colleagues. 333rd, Brainy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u248	Alexandre Sergiyovich, 336.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u249	Alexander Sergiyovich left.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u250	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 336th, 333rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u251	Everyone's tired.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u252	No, it's full of strength. 338th, 424th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u253	Wait. 333rd, 336th. Next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u254	338, 424, 339. How much is that? Give me three minutes, please. Time from the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u255	Please give me three minutes. Time from the beginning, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u256	I'm going to continue with what our colleague from "Smart Politics" Mr. Mikisha was talking about. We really offered, and, by large count, if we were to accept these amendments, we would solve the issues of both community security and sustainable development of decentralization and the provision of the Ukrainian army. Yeah, we wouldn't have decided that someone would want to "split" the state budget, and that would be transferred to the state budget. Well, if you'll excuse me, we have other priorities than to take advantage of Ukraine's state budget during the war, unlike many who are doing it today. What did we offer? This applies to 336 rights, this is to establish 64 percent at the level of the Budget Code. I know you've accepted it, we've talked to you about it today, but you've called it a whole new set of regulations, and unfortunately, you're using political approaches when you're considering rights. In my opinion, all the corrections would be in your place as on the committee, no matter who served them, if they relate to one right thing, they should be counted, and not then you're telling us that we're so good here, we accepted it. You only accepted it because it didn't go through differently, and you're focused on what you did, including us and our "Smart Politics" team. And the second aspect is that when you save PFCs for the military, 70 percent give to the security and defence forces. These are measures aimed at enhancing the security and security of the territories, helping our defenders, buying weapons, buying drones, buying uniforms, buying everything they need to arrange permanent locations, which unfortunately is not what the state is doing today, and today the local authorities are doing it, sometimes the WA. We must give what is right, and there are such examples, and for what they would like to thank. But in this case they are an exception. Local authorities are far more effective in this regard than central or governors are called central authorities. Not all, once again, I don't want to offend those decent and effective managers that are, but these are isolated cases. That's why we've been proposing these rights to enable us to provide for the needs of the Ukrainian army, without violating the principles of balance between the local central government. You didn't count it, you don't need to help the army, you need to take that money into the budget, then divide it, distribute it, and unfortunately, very often send it to the corruption stories that are being talked about in the colleagues' room today, referring to the report of the Court of Auditors. I hope you're Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u257	Thank you. Let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? Dear colleagues, 336, 338, 424. Did I say that, Dmitri Alexanderovich? 336 The amendment of Razumkov and his colleagues was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:40:05]] For-7. The decision is not taken. 338. Right? The 338th Authorship of Reasonable and Colleague. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[18:40:30.]] For -8 The decision is not taken. And the final in this network is the 424th authorship of Reasonable and Collegiate. Please vote. [[18:40:53]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Next up is 335th, Nagorniak. Don't insist. Next. 340th, Pippa and his colleagues. Don't insist. 341, Aliksiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 342, Timoshenko with his colleagues. They've already said it. 343, Aliksiyczuk and his colleagues. Don't insist. 344, Aliksiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 345, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 346, Aliksiyczuk and his colleagues. Don't insist. 347th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 348, Shapovalov. Don't insist. 349, Bondar. Don't insist. 350, the alien with a colleague. Don't insist. 351, Alekseiv. Don't insist. 352th, Hotcharyenko made a statement on this point. 353, Black Sea with colleagues. Don't insist. 354th, Krulko and his colleague have already spoken. 356th, Grissom. I've already said it. 357th, Arahami David Georgievich. You don't insist, do you? Don't insist. Thank you. Next, 358th, Arahami again. You don't insist, do you? Okay. 359th, Arahami again. Don't insist, David Georgievich. Okay. 360th, Blackmore with his colleagues. Don't insist. 361, Black Sea with colleagues. Don't insist. 362 Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich. Don't insist. 363, Tzabal. Don't insist. 364th, Mama. Don't insist. 365th, Mama. Don't insist. 366. Yes, there hasn't been. Please, yes. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u258	From 366 to 379 give me six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u259	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u260	Thank you. Start with time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u261	From the beginning, it's time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, indeed, there was a position regarding the law enforcement committee that he was the most resilient and most responsible, for which he wanted to thank his colleagues openly. But it's really bad that your trends and your approaches don't match the Committee on Budget Affairs. We have, if I'm not mistaken, just a reporter from this committee in the room, everyone else has figured it out, everyone else doesn't care. A committee on national security, defense and intelligence -- no one in the room at all, do I understand? We're talking about security now, are we looking at military security? Are they all right? Is that what they're talking about? This is a measure of responsibility. That's exactly who's going through this. We can talk to you a lot about technical remedies, but we've just been through more than principled amendments that could address the issue of ensuring the interests of all of us, primarily our advocates. Real, not on paper, but real security for our fellow citizens with you, especially in frontal areas. We mentioned Kharkiv today. We can remember Zaporozhye, we can remember Constantine's, Kramatorsky's, we can remember Dnipro and many other cities that today, without this money you want to take away from this bill, will simply not survive. The same Kharkiv, here are colleagues, Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumov, who can confirm that next year you want to take 3-4 billion dollars. And you want to take them not specifically, we're not talking about personnel right now, we're talking about people who live there, they don't have heat, they might not have heat, there might not be electricity, there might not be water, there might not be water, there might not work, and there might be many other things that might be. And you're at the level of your Kabmin, especially if something goes wrong again, and you're going to sit there, and you're going to talk about how to love the Motherland, you're not going to be able to make this money quickly, and you're going to send it to the city. And many other examples. We can take the Kyiv area as well. A lot of cities. Now I don't want to go to the staff again, because there are different dimensions and heads of OTG, that's the truth, which is not the place, not the place, and they're doing the execution, spending not on what their community needs, but we're talking about people who work in their territories. And you want to put them on the hook. Why do you need this bill? Money is one thing. No, you found it on the other side. You want to take the money from them so that you can tell them very conveniently afterwards, yes, and make a quick pledge to the high offices, in the Council, in the Office of the President, in the Cabinet of Ministers, and do what we tell you, especially if you go back to the idea of elections that Ruslan Alexiyovich spoke about. And if you don't, we're gonna take all the money from you, and you're gonna sit and look at the ceiling, and we're gonna bring people to you under the house and under the administration, and we're gonna tell them it's your fault they don't have the light. Even if it's your fault. Directly all those who press green for this bill, personally. I'd be in the mayor's seat, the heads of OTG, and so on, I'd just print out your addresses and your phones and give them to people who would come. Also on the local administration’s website, he wrote which of the areas where he resides and where to turn for light to come again, water came in, no sewage was killed, and, sorry, shit didn’t go through the top. It's biological. Do you understand? It would be very, very logical for them to do that. I don't know if they'll do it or not, maybe they'll listen. And so people would come to you and say, "How do we go on living, when there's light, when there's water, when the roof is repaired, when it's done, what's that, what's that, what's that? Not a great road in their area is as incomprehensible as it is. Yeah, just a minute. You'll have to suffer me. I see you're paying attention to the timer. But, Yuri Mikhailovich, there is no committee. I can see that Honcharenko is here. There's no committee. Even the committee is not interested in what the Supreme Council does. Even the committee doesn't understand the table he put in the hall. And I understand why, because in half an hour it's impossible to study it. And here's the concrete result. And that includes disrespect for you when your colleagues have not even found time to be with you and to support you in the difficult process of defending these changes in the hall. What respect do you want from people if you do not see them from your colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u263	Yes, the name of Bakumov was named. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u264	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'll use my right to reply. I thank Dmitri Alexanderovich, who mentioned the city of Kharkiv. I'm forced to say, dear colleagues, that these are really huge sums for the Kharkiv City Territorial Society. In particular, this year the city’s territorial community will lack 650 million dollars. Next year it's going to be in billions of dollars, that's over 3 billion dollars. It's a very difficult decision. I support not being transgender, sorry for the non-academic word, money for who knows where. All money must be directed to provide for the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military forces, to defend themselves. But I'm also paying attention, please, to the territorial communities at the front, like Kharkivska, we need to balance and count to pay the wages of all budget workers working in the utility sector for energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u265	369th, Cabal. Don't insist. 373, Tzabal. Don't insist. 377th. Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u266	Dear colleagues, my amendment 377 refers to keeping PDF in local budgets, in local territorial communities. It refers to both the police and the personnel of the military and the chief of staff. These are two categories that have joined the military, together in one platform, but which are directly referred to by my colleagues, mostly by the local population, are those who live with their families, families in those territorial communities, and always pay the corresponding taxes that came into the local budget, which were used directly by local authorities. I don't think that's going to be a huge amount, and that's why I'm going to leave my offer on the line of 377 PDF rescues and police officers, who for the rest of their lives belonged to the local population, in the territorial communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u267	Thank you. You insist, don't you? I'm putting in 377 Bakumov's amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[18:51:52]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. Look, Arthur Volodymyrovich, you're one of the European Solidarity Votes, I'm sorry. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, the next amendment is 378, the Cabal. Declined. Don't insist. 380 amendments, Petrunjak, Zagorujko, Razumkov. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u268	From 380 to 395. Come on, it's 11 rights, give me 6 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u269	Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, in fact, there was just an absolute logical question, and unfortunately, the committee did not only support the colleague's proposal to leave the PDFO to the police and rescue officers in the hall or on the committee. So if you can think of anything, because that's hard to say, to come up with an explanation of why you want to take away the military PFC, you're telling them that it fell out of the sky. Sometimes something seems to have fallen out of the sky, but I have a question: What is the point of taking away the VAT from the police and the eunuchs? They had them, they worked there, they lived there, their children went there, they drove these roads, they were treated in these hospitals, maybe their older generation is being taught in higher schools, their parents live there very often. What right do you have to take this money out of your local budget, so just explain to me who gave you that right? I understand that you've had a discharge, but you're a decent person, and you have to think, you have to make smart decisions, because smart politicians expect us all, not what they see in the hall today, you know? And you're voting yellow. Then you'll come to the district and you'll be talking to your constituents, including the police. Some, yes, indeed, have left their place of work, but mostly people have taken up arms to protect their Fatherland. Someone even left the rear, went to the front in the early days or where it was necessary, hoping that on the spot they could provide their family, provide their basic needs for their children to be warm so that their children could be comfortable at home so that they could go to the garden, to school, to be treated in a clinic, God forbid, to get to the hospital, to receive normal help as well. Parents have the same situation. You're taking this away. Aren't you ashamed of that? It's simple. I'm not even asking for a political position - a human one, who's going to provide it, who's going to provide it? So you're taking who from where the volume is going to compensate, and why do you think you have the right to take that resource? Unfortunately, you did not answer, colleagues. I would simply ask you to comment on this so that we can understand it because we had similar adjustments, and I think they will, I don’t remember, honestly, to the end. I would like to understand the position of the committee and your position as a representative of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u271	Committee position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u272	Dear colleague, look, really, we have the main goal of finding a resource to finance two state military programs, and we're redirecting another part of the resource directly to the military. What will be the compensators? There's going to be a special grant of 33.4 billion dollars to compensate for the loss of local budgets at 21st year's level, even taking into account the indexation, inflation and what they're going to miss. So it might be a little uncomfortable, but it's actually not going to happen, and the local budgets are going to get their funding for their work, including the losses that are going to be in both the police and the DSS. So we have this kind of compensator that we're offering. In addition, we leave the reverse grant in place, we add, 64 percent of it is fixed, of which 4 percent will have to be used for energy needs. So I think we're gonna be okay, we're gonna go through the winter and, God willing, we're gonna win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u273	Thank you. It's all clear, isn't it? 382th, Cabal. Declined. Don't insist. 386 Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. 387th, Cabal. Don't insist. 392th, Cabal. Don't insist. 396th, Cabal. Don't insist. 397th, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u274	After 414, please give me 9 minutes. There's a lot of rights, there's 14 rights, give me 9 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u275	Okay. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u276	So you're asking the question, where do you get the money for two key programs? Please tell me, has anyone tried to embezzle or steal from the budget? You're not asking the question: "Let's somehow get someone to be responsible for the jackets you bought at the cost of winter summer?" No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And as for the $42.5 billion shown by the House of Accounts, which is incomprehensible, they're not spent -- stolen, let's call things by their names. No, you haven't? What about the shells that the Polish company bought eight tenders in a row, and none came, from zero percent to 20 percent? It wasn't just stolen -- it was killed because after that, people didn't get shells and mines on the front, they didn't get bullets for BM-21 live fire systems. And maybe someone died behind this corruption, right? We don't think it'll be very comfortable. It wasn't very comfortable long ago, it wasn't very comfortable last year. It wasn't very comfortable, it would be worse, because at least they had some resources that you're currently taking away. We continue to play politics. Two bills from the "Smart Politics" team to re-drive duty-free generators and bring those that fit into them. What are you doing? You don't let me into the hall, mostly. Ruslan Alexiyovich was approached, he says I'm not forming a day order, he's forming a majority. You're members of a monogamy, aren't you? We voted last year for this, and I told you, at least lay down your laws, but your minister is speaking and says, "Buy generators, there will be no light, buy generators." And it feels like you're making money on this, that you're just doing business importing generators. Let people drive the generators cheaper. No, it's not. Why? Because it's politics, because it's proposed by Smartowe and his team, we're not taking him to the hall. Is that a problem? You're going to save some money. No, and we don't want to do that. When we offer you, let's look for other mechanisms to provide for the needs of the army, 70 percent just take it out of the local budget now, send it to them so they can buy. They were even willing to send these funds to the Special Fund to pay off the military, buy weapons, repair weapons, and so forth. What did you say? No, it doesn't suit us. We'd better put it all in the only boiler and then we'd take it out of it. It's so easy, so convenient, then you can't control where the money went. Next. You've already started preparing for the election. You want the local authorities to put themselves on the hook so that they can determine who she's with. And the fact that she's just with people, not with you, doesn't suit you. You're talking about everything, you've repeated all these things about what needs to be done in order to be able to hold an election. But you forgot the main thing, you just forgot the main thing. You mentioned occupied territories, those who went abroad, that there was no money, but as you waste it, there will be none. 5 or 6 you've counted. And I'll tell you one more, the key you've forgotten, more faithfully, you're not thinking about. It's about people and their safety. Because no human in this country can guarantee security during elections. None! Those who are ready will be held accountable, not on words, but on matters. Do you understand? And now you're trying to destroy local authority so it doesn't interfere with your election. You wouldn't think about the election, you'd think about the country, how people would live the heating season, how the army would fight, what it was provided or not provided for. That's right, it's not secure. Because we talked about drones again today. Where are they? You spent billions of dollars on drones. Where are the drones? We talked to a lot of colleagues in the towers about everyone going there. I'm not gonna ask anybody on the front or in the hall. Who saw these drones? We have only Alexander Sergiyovich told us that he saw them in some department. Nobody else. If they are, fine. But tell me, where are they? You can't answer that. The same will be true of this money. They will dissolve, there will be no drones, no forms, no tanks, no shells, no bullets. Nothing. And then you're going to spread your hands and tell me that it's lost somewhere along the route. I know where it's going, just like you lost it on Big Construction. Do you understand? Come on, I know you're used to it, but let's cut the appetite a little bit. Let's work at least a little bit, although sometimes for the state and victory, for our defenders, for their needs, not for the needs of separate ministries, for the Office of the President and so forth. I understand someone needs to pay off their brother for solar power in occupied areas, right? I see. You didn't go out and say, "Let's take the money back from them." This is the deputy head of the President's office who took the money and got it from his brother in the occupied area for power cut off for solar power cut off from the Ukrainian network. He says, no, it's not me, I don't know. Who's so lucky? Well, who's so lucky? Yeah, maybe we'll get this money back to the budget first, and then we'll keep talking, right? Oh, there's a bit of an increase in the number of committee representatives! The head of the committee also returned. I've seen you. Do you understand? And so in everything. You're trying to take what works instead of fixing what doesn't work. Here are your key approaches. You're trying to break what you can do. You want to put your hand where it shouldn't be at all. You didn't fill them, these budgets, you didn't take them. Actually, not many words, looking at what's going on in the hall. How much? Less than 20 national deputies in the hall. Well, how do you want to look at the laws? Less than 20. Instead of going through the key tags, you came in today. All right. Do you want to work? I see Mrs. Roxolana has something else to report? Oh, no? Do you support me? Thank you for your support, but it's bad that you didn't vote in favour of these good amendments on the committee. So I'm asking you very much, let's not ruin the state, because someone is so eager, not to destroy the system, not to ruin the state budget, because tomorrow it won't be. There will be no budget. There will be no army. There will be no army. There will be no country. And you don't fill the budget with these bills, you fill the pockets of individual officials. I really hope it's not yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u277	The next amendment is 403. The Cabal. Don't insist. 407th, Cabal. Don't insist. 411th, Cabal. Don't insist. 415th, Cabal. Don't insist. 416th, Brainy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u278	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. 416, 463. Give me five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u279	Please, five minutes, 416 and 463. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u280	We talked a lot about the budget today. I think we'll talk too. Unfortunately, there is no minister of finance today, the minister of defense. The new secretary of defense, a little more difficult for him, will be even more difficult when they see how they're trying to stop all the holes. Because after Horenko was released yesterday, who found out about his release from the Internet, and I'm sure they forced the Secretary of Defense to write that it was his application, but if I'm not mistaken, the application was to make for him the Handsome Valery Fedorovich. And how much, and I believe General Horenck, Glaucoma said there was no such application. That's how the system goes down, that's how the country's defense system goes down, when combat officers, combat generals, you throw them out on the street without even thanking them for what they're doing. And they've done a lot to make us today, yes, let's say in this small amount, but we could work in the walls of the Supreme Council. And it's embarrassing, but somehow I'm ashamed of myself, and you're doing this because you're in power, because it's not me, I don't have the authority to appoint or take office. You don't understand how many people called yesterday, asked me, although it's not my direction at all, not my direction at all, with those with whom we crossed into a full-scale war, and now, and those who serve, and those who don't serve, with one question: can you? And no one has an answer for that. You've begun to destroy your own army. Such actions should generally be treated as work for the enemy, because the worst thing for the army is not even that you can't provide them with shells, bullets, shape, armor, helmets and much more than they need on the front. The worst part is the demoralization, the demoralization that you're providing today. You destroy what destroyed the enemy on February 24 — moral spirit and confidence in victory. Then you complain that few are left who believe in victory. So you do it yourself, you do it yourself so that the army doesn't believe in your victory when you do it with the battle generals: you just forgot to tell him, even. Arthur Volodymyrovich, will I finish with your permission? You're just taking down combat officers! How do you expect them to defend themselves tomorrow? Protecting you, your children, your cities, your families, feeling such contempt in the back. With everyone you talk to in the military, they say, "You've got another war, you're 16. The war is over for you. You come to Kiev - everything, a civilian, a peaceful city. There's no war there." But if there's no war here, if they don't feel military, that the whole state is with them, then trust me, and they won't fight. We talked to them a lot, including they say, you know, we'll win and go abroad. And it's scary to listen. It's just scary to listen because they're winning. They say that we will thus repay our debt to the state and go to another. And who are you staying with? With those who are good at budgeting? But then there will be no budget, nothing to drink. It is also good if they do not abandon their state and responsibilities earlier. So we talked to you a lot during the election campaign. The only thing you want to say in the end is that you think it's very useful, and sometimes it provides life and health, including yours and ours and our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u281	419th, Cabal. Don't insist. 423rd, Cabal. Don't insist. 425th, Cabal. Don't insist. 426th, Cabal. Don't insist. 427th, Cabal. Don't insist. 428th, Cabal. Don't insist. 429th, Cabal. Don't insist. 430th, Cabal. What, you don't insist on repairs at all? Thank you. Don't insist. 431th, Cabal. Don't insist. 432th, Cabal. Don't insist. 433rd, Cabal. Don't insist. 434th, Cabal. Don't insist. 435th, Barresin. Don't insist. 436th, Cabal. Don't insist. 437 Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 438th, Goncharenko. I'm on it. 439, Kitzak. Don't insist. 440th, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please. Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u282	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, let's move on. So we're going back to the table that clearly shows, the account report, I'm not going to be tired of thanking the accountants for the fact that, unfortunately, the money at the state level is now much more corrupt than at the local level. We talked about eggs, but let's talk about other things. We've got bread bought by the Ministry of Defense on a roll of 8 bracelets of difference. Once again, it's cheaper for the military to come from the front line to the supermarkets of Herson, Mikolayevsky, Donetsk region, Kharkivsk, than to get it from the Ministry of Defense. And what summary? The summary of this process is very simple. It turned out that even dogs, dogs, and even dogs were made at an unmeasured rate. Read the account report. And as for how they stole, they did.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u283	440th, Herasimov and colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:13:17]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Please, 441. Arthur Volodymyrovich, yours again. Please return to your amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u284	Yes. And you know what turned out? That in the first half of the 23rd year -- after this famous 17th scandal -- Mr. Resnickov's Ministry of Defense was buying food at prices at least 30 percent higher than consumer prices, I emphasize, consumer prices at supermarkets, we're not talking about wholesale prices at which they were supposed to buy, they didn't analyze prices, they didn't control the actual quantity of products delivered, and 75 percent of the product catalogue's positions were not provided at all to parts. Just think about the cynicism of power that today applies to soldiers. Why am I talking about this right now? The reason is very simple: I want the Ukrainians to see how systematic corruption is at the state level today, and it is under central authority. In order to keep the money at the level of the communities where the mayors walk the streets.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u285	Thank you. 441 Gerasimov and colleagues. Please vote. [[19:14:48]] For -8 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 442. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u286	Thank you. So it turns out that price hikes were a systematic policy of the Ministry of Defence. And you know what's interesting? We've heard a lot about such high prices because these prices inside of them have an ingredient such as the supply of food to the military. And you know, I thank you again to the Chambers of Accounts for finding out clearly that these companies were taking 9 bracelets per egg, 8 bracelets more than a loaf of bread, and the delivery was made by the final producer of the product, where they bought the egg by 3.5-4 bracelets. And this is the manufacturer who put this delivery in his price. And I have, by the way, really questions that have already been raised by colleagues: why the budget committee, why the anti-corruption committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u287	442 The Gerasim amendment was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[19:16:15]] For -8 The decision is not taken. 443rd. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u288	Thank you. And, you know, I have a question, really, why is the budget, why is the Committee on Security and Defence, why is the anti-corruption committee -- I'm going to the audience in the room -- most of the law-enforcement committee of deputies, why didn't you immediately invite the House of Auditors with this report to your meeting? 'Cause I figure that's gonna have to be followed by an urgent criminal case. Yeah, even with eggs of 9, where they're stealing twice as much to make you understand, the difference between eggs of 17 was made, and this is the Building of Accounts that has already posted an official document on its website, we've printed it today, and this difference has amounted to 1 billion 570 million dollars. So for your understanding, when there were 17 eggs, tens of billions of dollars were stolen, unfortunately, at the central level. And let's keep talking about this now, and let's put the amendment into perspective.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u289	443 repairs to Arthur Volodymyrovich. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:17:41]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Arthur Volodymyrovich, 444, yours. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u290	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. So when we're talking about the thesis that products are being put on the front of the front, the Accounting House of the Young People, it gives specifics that, for example, when the original documents were being examined in June 23rd of the year, in the form of an expense note on the arrival of food as a supplier, it meant, for example, the Globe Meatcombinate, which is the real producer of the product that supplied it. And what's really interesting is that it was this manufacturer who put this product in the military at a cost. It's just for understanding what's going on at the state level. After that, look, are we going through, or was the correct use of the PDF that we're talking about today at the local level? Not far and far, but this figure has already been said, only in the 23rd year more than 60 billion local PFCs have been targeted.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u291	Thank you. Arthur Volodymyrovich, I'm placing your amendment, but please, these are very important facts that you're reading from the report, but you can go closer to the amendments, to the content of their report. 444 revisions, Gerasimov. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:19:20]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next 445, Eugene. She's already reported it. 446th, Yatzik. Don't insist. 447th, Babenko with colleagues. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u292	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u293	What? And Yuzanina reported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u294	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u295	And you just took the floor, we voted for it, Arthur Volodymyrovich. You are not following your amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u296	43 didn't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u297	43 votes. Everyone voted, Arthur Volodymyrovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] They voted, they all voted. And we don't know, you've just been so charged with emotion, so let's keep track. Let's move on. 450th Gorbenko with his colleagues. Don't insist. 451, Gorbenko with his colleagues. Don't insist. 451, Pippa and his colleagues. Don't insist. 454th. 453, Pippa and his colleagues. Don't insist. 454th, Alien. Don't insist. 455th. Hotcharenko's already on the floor. 456th. Hotcharenko's already on the floor. 457th, Cabal. Don't insist. 461, Cabal. Don't insist. 464th, Mokan. Please, Mikisha. 464.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u298	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'll count the check and change it by five minutes. 464, 66, 68, 70, 72, 74, 75, 87, 89 and 95 for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u299	Please, five minutes. Take your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u300	Thank you. First of all, what are these changes about? We're changing the address that we're going to get, eventually, the money. We change it to two main addressees: The Armed Forces of Ukraine, as well as their inefficient and most well-known military unit, the structure is the Chief Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defence. These are two units that have to get all the money. I want to explain to you right now why this is what we've decided and why we want the money to go to these structures. Look, right now we're seeing, and first of all, it's probably the only telearafon that's going through constant strikes, the actions that local self-governance is going to channel funds to the Armed Forces and to the security and defence sectors. I fully support this. I completely share the concerns, I completely share the resentment of people that money is being used in mysterious ways, and that it is used by individual heads and individual representatives of certain territorial communities. But it's not everywhere, it's a few dozen communities. Yeah, that's a lot. But I'm going to remind you that we have 1,000 469 territorial communities in Ukraine. Once again, 1 thousand 469 territorial communities, and stealing measures and their gravel in a few dozen. Why do we have to take money from local self-government in general now, not allowing them to help the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and including the General Intelligence Directorate, which we are now in these regulations and we are saying and writing, and we demand that it be done. demanded that they be supported? I'd also like to talk to those people who are going to the stock market, and they're always talking about how money needs to be channeled here. I'm sure they'll tell you there was a mayor in there somewhere. But you will never be told that local self - government for August 2023 has already helped the Armed Forces, the security and defence sectors in general, to the sum of more than 60 billion. They won't tell you and nobody will. They don't talk about it. Also, when you are fully justified, you can rightly say that local self - government should help the army. And do you know, do you know that according to the legislation, it's the acquisition of cars, the acquisition of drones, other material aids, the same tractors to buy and transfer, for example, artillery, because the SAU and Paladin are self-propelled artillery installations, they have to be buried. But it's not by hand. Where do you get this tractor? This could help local self - government. But they can't, they're not allowed to transfer to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, so they're responsible, and first comes the audit in the form of an audit service, and then the law enforcement agencies, the police, the D.B.I., and others, are coming after it. And then the responsibility comes -- it's the purposeless use of funds, and they can plant it. They don't tell you that either. We've registered Bill 9559-d accordingly and, by the way, the amendment here is also in this bill so that local self-government can without hindrance provide material assistance to military units in the security and defence sector. What do you think of them, with the papers in this bill? They were not supported. The bill 9559-d of it is being blocked by the Prime Minister at all and does not allow it to do anything to prevent it from falling into the order of the Supreme Council of the day. They won't tell you about it either. And by the way, when you go out and rally, and you demand that the money go to the army, that's the meeting during the state of war. You're allowed now. Note, too, that you were forbidden to leave during wartime when there were eggs of 17. You're not allowed to do that, and now you're allowed to do it. How does that work? And finally. There's 590 Order of the Cabinet of Ministers -- it's the treasury service's work that explains exactly how to distribute the funds. The first is the army, the second is the socialist, and the third is everything else. So why was she working in the 22nd year, and now nothing's changed about her and there's going to be such a crazy waste. I mean, who gives the permission? All of us need to think about this and not support the right ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u301	465th, Cabal. Declined. Don't insist. 467th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 469th, Cabal. Don't insist. 471, Petrunjak. Don't insist. I'm sorry, then 473, the Cabal. Don't insist. 476th, Barresin. Don't insist. 477th Vasilchenko. Don't insist. 478th, Goncharenko. I'm on it. 479, Kick-Ass. Don't insist. 480s, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u302	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Look, this is about not directing money to the Ministry of Strategic Industries of Ukraine. Let me explain what I mean. I have this feeling that they're not just going to be stolen there, they're just going to steal them at a crazy rate. Because the scheme looks like this: stealing on the roads, doing sociological research, realizing that it's unpopular now, and finding an excellent scheme, where to steal further, as if to create weapons. I'm sure the weapons will probably produce, but the question is, at what prices. How's it going in the roads, upping prices there a half-and-a-half times or something? And we're not going to get an answer because it's all a defense industry, and during the war, it's classified data. The one who invented this scheme is probably a genius. If you notice, we don't mention PRTRs and drones here. Because, yes, we can discuss this mechanism, but, nevertheless, these guys came to us, presented us, showed us all this, and we understand that this could be a work story. And put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u303	480 amendments by Gerasimov and his colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:28:08]] For-9 The decision is not taken. 481, Eugene. I've already reported it. 482nd, Eugene. I did. 483, Eugene. I did. 484, Eugene. I did. 485, Yatzik. Don't insist. 486th, Babenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 488th, Petrunjak with colleagues. He doesn't insist either. 490, Pippa and his colleagues. Don't insist. 491, Goncharenko. Please, Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u304	Dear Mr. Head, I'm asking for 491, 492, 514, 542, 552, please give me four minutes to go on these motions and I'll put two of them to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u305	So let's do a couple more, maybe a couple more.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u306	Well, let's just stop at these.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u307	All right, go ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u308	Thank you. So, really important is the changes, and I'm going to put it to a vote of 491 and 492. What do they predict? They predict that part of the money that you want to take to local self-government is kind of to the army to really go to the army. That is, 50 percent to pay for the salaries and financial provisions of the U.S.S.S. military and other military formations formed in accordance with Ukraine’s laws. And we have a huge problem, and today we have a delay of even fighting right now in September of the month, which is now November. In September, no full payment was made to the fighting. This was not the first time, both in Nacgardia and the DSS were regularly delayed, had to be knocked out directly to make sure that the funds were paid to the military. Now there's a problem with the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And not just with the fighters. The violent situation is out of state. These are thousands of military personnel, most of whom are people who have already given up their health for a state of de facto declared either limitedly fit or unfit to the Navy. And then they just don't have any pay, 500, 600, 700 bucks a month. And to fix it, if there's such a desire to take the army, let's really give it to the army. For months, people are also awaiting payment of one - time financial assistance for loss of employment, disability. That is, those who have received the disability of the first, second, third group, military personnel during their service and have been waiting for these payments for months. And it would be possible to correct this situation in a very limited way, both in inappropriate and out-of-state, and in this category. By the way, it's a totally screaming situation. Friends, on June 30, we passed a law here that I had the privilege of being coauthor of, paying off military personnel: professionals, students who are limitedly capable of protecting the Motherland, who are out of state and instructors. And just literally over the past 10 days, they've started paying the timers, and there, for the last two weeks, they've finally started paying off something that's limitedly protective of the motherland that's been out of state, but not all of them, but at least something. The instructors still have nothing, the fifth month of the operation of our law. The instructors are still waiting. Well, it's just some kind of bullying. Another point of this law is to allow the termites to move into the mobilized ones. The fifth month is to be amended by the President’s decree on the order of military service. The President’s office cannot give birth to a fifth month with two sheets of paper. Well, it's the enforcement of our laws. Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, perhaps you'll make some kind of reference, well, the law is in effect, given 30 days for legal acts. Why is it the fifth month? Thirty days have turned into 130 days and still no result. Well, please go to the President's Office, well, let them have this unfortunate document. Because when we run after the Handmaiden, we see that they are the good guys, they're the big soldiers out there yesterday, the deputy of Germany is critical. And how do you do your job and write two papers so that the timers can move into the voluntarily mobilized ones, if they want to, they don't. And another issue is 492: Thirty percent of this money is paid to the families of the dead. Well, we have people, unfortunately, waiting for these payments for months often, months, huge unpaid payments and huge delays. Let's at least do this, this is the real help of the army. I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u309	Dear colleagues, 491 amendments to the authorship of Potterenka. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:33:30.]] For-7. The decision is not taken. 492 revisions of the authorship of Gončarenko. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:33:49]] For-7. The decision is not taken. 493, Bakumov. Don't insist. Thank you. 494, Arahama and his colleagues. Don't insist. 496th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 497, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. Are you insisting? Please. Smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u310	496th, 497th, 498th, 499th, 500th, 501th, 502nd, 503rd. Give me five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u311	501s, 502s, 503s. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u312	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u313	Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u314	Dear colleagues, I see that even the leadership of the greatness has failed and gone. I suggested. First of all, we have 199 people's deputies in this room, cards. A card. For those who look at us, just who didn't match the cards, they're 199. And everyone sees the hall, and everyone understands that this is a violation of the Constitutional Court's decisions, a violation of the law, we can't, in principle, consider anything right now, we can't vote for anything. I am again addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, and at the beginning of this right, I was saying that let's leave the key important rights to the next meeting. And I don't think me and my "Smart Politics" colleagues are going to insist on technical training. That's what I was talking about at the beginning of our session. I think you just like it there, okay, we'll work for it. It's too bad, isn't it, that it's just me (and how much?), well, I think we've got about 15 of us left in the room, maybe 20 of us, but, nevertheless, there's only one faction manager left, no one else. Right? It's kind of weird. Such an important law, they all say, is very, very much to be accepted, very much to be accepted, very necessary, so we didn't go into it until Saturday. And when there are constructive suggestions, let's make key corrections so that people can be in the hall, so that they can pick up or not get support in the hall, let's take it to the next meeting. You don't want to. Okay, we'll work in this mode. I'm, in principle, in, let's work at least once in a while. I'd like to mention more about purchases, about how government spending is spent, here's the minister of justice. I think everyone saw those rolls beautiful when he showed that he had a good bar, but he only eats oil. Do you realize that we're turning the state budget into a circus? We're just turning it into a circus. Are you ashamed of such ministers? Perhaps you would like to make an application in parallel with this law for the withdrawal of such specialists from your posts and the appointment of someone who is adequate, including from the professional committees, from your colleagues? There are smart, efficient people there. I think they'll be much more useful to the state than the minister of justice who teaches, and I don't know if they're just going to tour the cells that pay for the employees of parliament, and they're doing a little bit of shopping, buying something else. He can perform beautifully as a standup comedian. But I don't think it's a function of a minister of justice. I realize that this isn't about this bill, it's just about how they refer to government money: to laugh. And I think it would still be worth taking this process more seriously, to fill it with meaning. It would be faster and better, and I think that more colleagues would vote for it, and we would not be in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine now, nor of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u315	Next amendment 504. Mocan. Is he insisting? Please. Smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u316	From 504 to 521, and then there's 728, they're the same type. Give me five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u317	Please. Which, say, once again, 504.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u318	504th, 505th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 521th and 728th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u319	Okay. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u320	Dear colleagues, right next to the lines that they could once again, if they had listened to the suggestions of the "Smart Politics" team, to make sure that both the sheep are targeted, and the budget is filled, and the wolves are fed, and the army is provided, and. No, but unfortunately, yes, we have colleagues who even this important animal is hard to call. It's just the colleagues telling us that we're not sheep, that's the truth. What's this paper about? An amendment that makes it possible if this shameful bill is still approved to take the government from the military to the state budget to ensure an effective control mechanism. And so there's an active control mechanism for Parliament, so that we can really control where these funds go, so that it can be controlled by independent structures. But the committee rejected him again. Here I'm going to put these motions to confirm, to vote, to count, to be faithful, to forgive, and I'm going to ask the committee to give its explanation. We suggested that the Ministry of Strategic Industry should meet the production localization criteria of at least 50 percent. Because as you spend your money well abroad and you get out, we've already seen, I wish we could see the enterprises here, and the localization is at least 50 percent. The other one. The Cabinet should approve the relevant budgetary programmes within 30 days. There's no problem here either, please tell me that it's so important, so important, you've failed this bill once before. During this time, it would be possible to work on these programs so that they would be transparent and that no one would put anything in their pocket again. But the committee turned it down. Next. Set a clear schedule for the use of allocated funds: 25 per cent by April 1, 24, 40 per cent by July 1, 24, and 35 per cent by October 1, 24. The Kabin is formed within 30 days of the date of the Act’s entry into force by a commission to monitor the spending. This commission should include members of the Committee of the Supreme Council on National Security, Defence, and Intelligence, which are not in the Hall today. Just not one. So maybe you shouldn't take that into account. Next. Members of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, members of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Public Authority Organizations, Local Self-Government and Regional Development, members. Not less than 50 percent of the members of such committees are members of such committees. So this is real parliamentary control over the activity and spending of these funds. There's absolutely no politics here. The more I don't understand why I didn't vote "Serve," because it would have been your representatives on this committee more than any other faction. And you could control this process so you don't get anything wasted. And you could be a part of it. I have to take part in the work of this committee, not in the budget, I hope. Next. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, representatives of the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. Because localization is exactly what we accepted with you, and me and Nataluha elected this bill, and then, thanks to our joint work with you, it was voted in the localization room, regardless of the warnings of our European partners. But unfortunately, I can't say that he's working in the fullest sense, just like we assumed. Next. Representatives of city, village, rural heads, leaders of all Ukrainian associations and local self - government bodies and representatives of North Atlantic treaty organizations. This would also enable our international partners to show that we are not budgeting, we are providing the Ukrainian army, we are ensuring democracy, and we are willing to show these costs to our international partners so that they do not have any mistrust in us, no confidence that corruption is flourishing in Ukraine. And it's a shame we're talking to you about this today, but unfortunately, that's a fact. The fact is complete, the fact that they're talking about in the international arena; the fact that they're talking about in every trench, excuse me, and in every kitchen, so please support these adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u321	What are you talking about, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Please give me a call. Turn the Smart One on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u322	It's 521th and 728th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u323	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 521 amendments to the authorship of Reasonable and Colleague. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:44:18]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 728 by Reasonable and Colleague. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:44:41]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. 508, Bakumov. Don't insist. Thank you. 511 Bakumov. Don't insist. 512th, Bakumov. Don't insist. You don't insist, Alexander Sergiyovich, anymore? Not yet. Okay. Thank you. 513 Bakumov. Don't insist. 515th, Arahami. Don't insist. 516th, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u324	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. This amendment refers to the central corruption of establishing additional control and involving the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues, and I thank the head of the Committee of the Roxolani Podlasi, who is now in this room. And why does this control have to be set up, it shows us once again the account report, which says that one of these important points was the feeding of service animals, because there, for example, the Ministry of Defense very creatively approached and did not set the price ratios, and they made so much more hard on dogs. As a result, the account report says, in just one of the verified parts, the cost of food supplied to feed one dog was higher by more than 60 bracelets a day. And all of a sudden, they were checking there, if I'm not mistaken, just a month, over 30,000 dollars. It's in one of the military units. When you multiply by the number of military units, you'll realize that they were only doing it on this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u325	516 Gerasimov's amendment, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[19:46:36]] For -8 The decision is not taken. 517th. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u326	Thank you. She's groaning the same thing. And why is this extra control needed, and my amendment suggests that it be installed? Because the audience in the Court of Auditors also paid attention. See, why didn't the Ministry of Defense really make any claims to those food suppliers, I'd say so-called overpriced? Because the Ministry of Defense seems to have explained this by saying that the military (attention!) In time, they order food, and the suppliers use it to avoid being responsible for the low quality and quantity of food they supply. You can imagine, that is, the Ministry of Defense has decided to accuse the military of ordering food without looking at war. I mean, the military isn't busy right now. I'm just trying to prove to you that the PDF should be left at the local level and the amendment should be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u327	517 Gerasim’s amendment was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[19:48:01]] For -8 The decision is not taken. 518th, Eugene. I'm on it. 519th, Mama. Don't insist. 520th, Yatzik. Don't insist. 522nd, Brainy. Mikisha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u328	Ruslan Alexiyovich, look, 522th, 524th, 525th, 526th, four 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u329	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u330	What's in these papers? What do we propose? In a bill that proposes to take away military PFCs, it's not just there to take them, it's first of all where to use them. And what we're saying with our rights is that the way and the mechanism that we put into using these funds, how technically this is going to go through all services, we're going to reject exactly the proposals that are in the bill, and we're going to propose exactly how. So it's prescribed for us, I'm not going to read it for a long time, it's written completely, how Kabmin should be used, in which numbers, in what proportions. It's all technical, it's the mechanisms that we have in place, we're proposing how we should do it, these are the amendments, because we know how it can eventually be used and used. About 100 billion dollars a year is taken away by military PFCs and returns 33 billion. It's like they're going to bring it back to those communities that are going to be very difficult when they're taking away the military PDF. But we know how this returns, this mechanism will be hand-in-hand, the one who swears to be faithful, the one who will do what is right. We've already done this in 2018-2019, when there was an educated subsidy, when it wasn't identified, and then hand-returned and then returned 80, no more than 80 percent of what we needed. If you fully respond to all the enigma of central authority, then you'll get it. And just so that it's not all that there's no manual mode, that it's not being used in manual mode, we're just proposing in these regulations, as correctly, as legally and transparently as possible, and we're clearly using the algorithm that we wrote. That is how it should work if you are finally able to recover the funds. It should be transparent and everyone should see how it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u331	Thank you. Let's move on. The next amendment is 527, Vasilchenko and his colleagues. Don't insist. 528th, Aleksiev. Don't insist. 529th, Grissom. Don't insist. 530th, Mikisha. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u332	Ruslan Alexiyovich, now 530th and 34th, 36th and 37th. Two minutes instead of four lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u333	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u334	So what are the adjustments here, what are we talking about? We're in. They're actually also technical remedies. But not just where we need to change the subject or the track, we're clearly showing how, by which algorithms, by which mechanisms any service, appropriate units should be used. We're just saying where the funds are going to be used, which is going to take priority in 2024. We're suggesting that from a source you're going to take, 50 percent of the money should be used to develop purchases and modernize and repair weapons, military equipment, equipment and equipment, and 50 percent more to pay the wages, the money to military personnel. We're already saying where all of this is going to go, where it's supposed to be used. Not for any challenge, not in any manual mode, which I was talking about in the past direction, it has to be clearly in certain algorithms and mechanisms, and it's going to be clearly where it's going to be used. Not some kind of challenge. Clear on weapons, equipment, what's required by the military right now, what they're yelling at, what we need. And 50 percent for the reward. The newly appointed Defense Minister said we have a deficit of 200 billion dollars to pay. So-so we tell you where to use it. If you take some part, perhaps even everything, let us use it properly. And you're not going anywhere, you're going somewhere, you're going somewhere, we're going to look. So you don't give the mechanism to create control over the use. We've shown this in past regulations and we're showing this in this direction a clear mechanism, a clear, transparent mechanism, so that it's used properly and there's no claim of citizens to us, to the central authority, to anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u335	Put it on, yeah? 530th. Dear colleagues, the national MP Mikisha, who is the author, asks to be taken into account. She's been rejected by the committee. I'll bet you 530. Please vote. [[19:53:47]] For-9 The decision is not taken. 531th, Mezenceva, does not insist with colleagues. 532th, Tistik. Don't insist. 533rd, Brainy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u336	533th, 35th, 47th, 48th, 49th. Give me three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u337	33rd, 35th, 47th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u338	48th, 49th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u339	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u340	Dear colleagues, we've talked about how to finance roads today, but let's talk about something else. We have parties with you, political parties where you put money into the budget. I understand you're very eager to hang yourself, which you're good at, keeping structures that don't work, spending these public budget costs. And you're saying that we're running out of money on the army. There's no money at all, so let's take it to the local authorities. You wouldn't want to start with yourself, would you? Tell me, please, what prevents you from taking the money out of the party and sending it to the army? Is that mine or is that ours? You can't come down here. We can handle it here, right? Why is this amendment not supported by the committee? I'd like to listen to the committee's position. Our "Smart Politics" team is proposing to withdraw funding from political parties, all of them, and send it to defense. You will be involved in your parties and policies after victory if such a need in society is to occur. And now 50 percent of what you've been seeing in your budget is to send for development, purchase, upgrade, repair of weapons, military equipment, equipment and 50 percent to pay our supporters' wages and money. Now, I just want to see who, even of those who stayed in the room, would not vote who would think that financing their renegade parties and their personal importance was much more important to the Ukrainian army. I'm surprised there's none. One is the leader of the faction in the walls of Parliament, all the others are running. Let's go budget party split, prepare for the election or where? Please tell me, what logic did you use as a member of the committee, as a committee as a whole, when you did not support these amendments? Do you really believe that the warlord should spend money on political parties rather than on the provision of the Ukrainian Armed Forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u341	Please take the seat of the committee. And what number would you then say, yes, Dmitri Alexanderovich? He'll answer now. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, 33rd, 35th. Please respond to the committee if you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u342	Dear colleagues, well, look, this amendment is not supported as being included in the 910th and 1394 amendments. Well, the proposal, in fact, we consulted Minfin and we came up with what might lead to a reduction in the allocation of Minstrategprom's funds, which is unacceptable, because the main idea of this law is to fund this state military programme. This time. Required volumes will not be reached. And with regard to political parties, look, we do have article 17 prim. The Ukrainian Act on Political Parties in Ukraine, which, in effect, this law, which provides for this kind of funding. This is a separate issue, a separate law needs to be decided, not by changes to the Budget Code. That's why your readjustment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u343	Thank you. 5633 amendment of the authorship of Razumkov. The committee's dismissed. The party's argument has been heard. Please vote. [[19:58:18]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. And 535th, right, Dmitri Alexanderovich? 535 revisions. The committee is also dismissed. The position of the parties was heard. Please vote. [[19:58:42]] For-9 The decision is not taken. 538th, Pippa and his colleagues. Don't insist. 539, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 540th, Leonov. Don't insist. 541th, Savichuk. Don't insist. Wait a second. Five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five. Don't insist. 546th, Grissom. Don't insist. 550th, Leonov. Don't insist. 551s, Bondar. Don't insist. 553, Gerasimov. You take it right away. Dear colleagues, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov takes an hour of speaking for the first time in the history of the Supreme Council instead of 111 of his amendments, which includes 830. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u344	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, Your Honor Alexander Sergiyovich! He's taking the lead! Dear reporter! The honourable heads of the committees present in our Hall today! Dear National Deputies! You know, right now I'm going to use these 60 minutes to systematically, fairly legitimately, with numbers, to prove to you why you can't vote again for Bill 10037. First of all, I would like to thank all the national MPs who did not really support him during his second reading of this law. You remember, then 223 on the board, it was, of course, a shock to the authorities, but nevertheless it was the right decision. And he was sent back to the second. Did the authorities conclude this, as many experts have recommended? Regrettably, no conclusion was drawn. Why? Because it's not the goal of power to channel money into security and defense. Unfortunately, what we see is the goal of directing money to corrupt schemes that can be used with impunity. And now we're going to start with, like, chapters. First chapter. We've talked a lot in my previous speeches, but now we're going to talk about it more systematically: why can't we send money from the local to the central level? In the last few months, we've seen a systematic campaign by the President's Office against the local government, which is based on brukovka, lays the asphalt instead of going all the way to war. Were there such incidents at the level of local authority? Of course they were. But does central authority behave differently? I mean, the President's Office, his majority and the Cabinet of Ministers, who also represents Mr. Zelensky fully? No, it's not. And I'm grateful for Roxolani Podlasi, who said from the Supreme Council's rostrum that it turns out that the road fund for central building, I emphasize, the road used by the central authority is already fully used in 2023. Excuse me, where's the money for the war you were talking about? There's no war in the state? Why did you use this to build the central routes? Also, when we talk about the distribution of money between local and central authorities, let us not forget that local authorities, local deputies, city mayors, heads of village and village councils, they walk the streets every day. And in the government district, it's impossible for ordinary people, grandparents, ordinary Ukrainians to get in right now, to hide. This is before we can take control of these processes for the common people. And another two-pronged argument. On February 24, when a full-scale invasion began, you know, I ask this question everywhere in the regions when I travel, and who in the majority of them stayed to run the city, the village, the village and to organize resistance? And in the list of DBRs, BSBs, local authorities, and other law enforcement agencies, I was usually told, while local authorities, local deputies, remained to measure. And that's why their central authority hates that people respect them for the fact that it was on critical days that they organized densely and frequently defenses. So, here's the report of the House of Auditors that we've already talked about today. They're really stealing a lot. And you know, we'll start in pieces, we've already talked about what this report actually confirmed, and that's, frankly, if I'm not mistaken, the first official document from the government body that says that they did buy and purchase eggs for 17 dollars by the Ministry of Defense. And I was reading a letter from Vitalia Shabunin that reminded me and correctly reminded me of how many pseudopaths there were, I would say, that we didn't have one -- it was kilograms or what, litres, eggs in liters -- it wasn't like that. So now everybody's got the answer and it's documented by an official document, which it was. One second. The Accounts report made it clear that there had been a decrease. But you know, I'd just say, if they were stealing ungodlyly at the time, they're just starting to steal a lot. Because at a time when they were lowering prices and buying the same eggs for nine bracelets apiece, I emphasize, all the other security and defense sectors were buying much cheaper, in the area of five bracelets, 5.30 and 5.40 an egg. And it's both the border guards, the National Guard, and the Security Service, and the Intelligence Authority. The audience went even further, began to find out, and at what prices did others purchase? For example, government structures or educational institutions. And they found that, for example, the University of Shevchenka had bought honestly in the area of 5 bracelets. And, you know, the question was, did you lower prices like that? I didn't glid, I picked up the Party of European Solidarity, which is now in the Donetsk region in the lines of territorial defense, in the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and I asked them to go to supermarkets, which are basically 20 to 30 kilometers from the front line, and ask, what are the prices of eggs, for example, there. And it turns out that the most expensive thing they found in Constantine is, you know, what's going on there right now is six bracelets apiece. A little cheaper than five bracelets apiece, 4.50 of them were found in Slavian and Kramatorski. Pochrovsk is also in the district of 4.50. So, it turns out, dear Ukrainians, it turns out that it's cheaper for the military to go to the supermarket with their price to buy food than to get it from the Ministry of Defense. So we're talking about eggs as the most violent case. And the prices for everything went up. That's it! On a loaf of bread, excuse me, they made money and put eight bracelets in their pocket higher than they could have done. And this is at a time when Ukrainians, sometimes five or ten dollars each, are sent to assist the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Besides, as you've seen, you've stolen even from dogs, exceeding what they need, for example, 60 bracelets a day. Here, too, millions of dollars went into their pockets. And the evidence, one such indirect evidence that the Ministry of Defense approved this, is that the Ministry of Defence of Mr. Reznikov, it looked at all these trials, but it didn't accuse them and, let's just say, it didn't make a claim. And when journalists began to ask, the answer was very simple. So you're sorry, the military doesn't order food in time, I've already talked about it today, but I want to repeat it, because it's a forceful fact. In addition, we've decided to cover ourselves with another scheme, you know, like that hose on the pan, that it's the same logistics that's put at the price of these products, and we have to bring it from the manufacturer to the military. And thank you to the Chamber of Accounts, thank you to the Deputy Head of the Accountant, Mr. Meisner, for having issued the first official document, where it is clearly written that logistics was already at the price at which these intermediaries were purchased from a direct manufacturer at the price of the manufacturer. And it was these manufacturers, who, on condition, sold twice as cheap as this middleman sold to the Ministry of Defense, who were obliged to deliver it to the military. And we understand how it was done, they're still delivering to the grocery stores, to the supermarkets of Donetsky, Kharkiv, Zaporozhi, Herson, Mikolai district, they were just doing this shoulder logistics a little bit longer and they were delivering it to the military. And, you know, I'm very impressed with being journalists from Censor, because there's a lot of writing about it, but I'd like to quote them, and they summed up this conclusion about food. They made it clear that this report of the Court of Auditors is important to understand how corruptive the system itself has purchased food at the Ministry of Defense. And just by putting trades on ProZorro, unfortunately, the situation doesn't work. Even if the number of lotts is increased in the near future, it will only lead to known players entering under unknown displays. I mean, we know who today are the middlemen who steal this money from people and the army, while it's important to put the end-of-the-nation producer at least. It is now possible to produce separate lotes of bread to ensure that suppliers do not earn a margin of 8 bracelets on a bill, but to continue to produce other commodity groups, to approve the food menu so that the military does not feed themselves with pearls and sausages, but to separate the supply from the price of the goods. And this is actually the verdict because at the central level today, money is being stolen. The second moment is very, very interesting. And it refers to providing exactly the forms of the Ministry of Defense. I'm holding this report, which is published on the website of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors. What do they write? They say that no more than 2 million, if you're right, 2 million 328 thousand 670 units of property in the army. What else can we talk about? This is already a direct threat to military supplies. What, they'll be out of winter form again? Will there be no military supplies again? And what's interesting? Again, we don't hear anything about claims from the Ministry of Defense to these suppliers. Now I would be very grateful if the new composition of the Ministry of Defense, after reading this report carefully, would actually make claims to those who do not provide us with uniforms for the military. And you know what's interesting? We're basically normal people, and we understand how it happened, why more than 2 million sets of military uniforms still didn't fit in, regardless of the percentage or almost 100% prepayment. And it turns out that we're suppliers of military uniforms who were building companies that at the age of 21, at the age of 20, at the age of 22, something was being built for the Ministry of Defense. I certainly don't want to vanquish, but I don't think it's a coincidence that the Ministry of Defense's construction companies, which were its contractors, became the military's immediate suppliers and, of course, wasn't installed by most of them or set at higher prices. But any smart person on a level of common sense will immediately realize that it's likely that they've accepted and said that we've already dumped everything, schematics, and let's try some more form. They said, "Sure, we'll try." And the billions of dollars that are now missing from the army went there. And that's what this report says. What else did he want to pay attention to? You know, in this law, when you take PDF into local budgets, read the experts ’ conclusions carefully. In front of me now, we have prepared very carefully for this meeting, the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority. And it says: ‘ Okay, you decided to take away the VAT, tax on the income of the natural person, in the local government, and transfer it to the central level. However, colleagues found that according to paragraph 168 of Article 168 of the Tax Code of Ukraine, the amount of tax on the income of natural persons held, attention, financial security, monetary rewards and other payments received by police officers, members of the military and executive services of Ukraine, civil protection authorities and units, as well as persons designated by the Ukrainian Law on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, should be directed solely to the payment of equivalent or full compensation for the loss of their duties, during the course of service, so if these money is received, they should be in accordance with the legislation of the State Service and their families, by the parents, by the detainees of the deceased military officer during the course of the service, so far as these are received, they should be directed solely to the payment of the equivalent or full compensation of the loss of their duties. Even such things were so quick to put money on corruption schemes that they didn't even consider it. And this is a question, among other things, for the Committee on Social Policy. The next story is overwhelming. Yesterday I returned from the city of Hmelnicki, where we met representatives of European Solidarity with local council members from all over the Hmelnicki region. You know, we talked very carefully to them about what's going on with the PFO, what's going on with it, how to do it. They all came to the conclusion that the actual military PFC, which would be about 96 billion dollars next year, would have to focus almost everything on security and defence needs. But do people believe that when this is directed to the central level of power, it will really be used to help the Armed Forces and other forms that protect Ukraine? No, no one believes that. And that's not what ordinary people believe. And when you start talking, you know, the mechanism is clear, and "European solidarity" will support them. At least 20 percent, now you've got 10, you've got to go directly to the brigade's accounts. In other words, if you're talking about drones and PRTRs, okay, we've said repeatedly that we consider this mechanism to be imperfect, it's systematically wrong, but it's a working mechanism, at least it looks like a working mechanism, so that we can significantly increase the supply of drones to our defenses. And we were also visited by the representatives of the DSSZI, the leadership of the DSSZI, and we were visited by the representatives of the MCZ, and we were really talking to them about it. There are problems, there are problems, but nevertheless, I want to believe that this mechanism will work. As for the Ministry of Strategic Industry, we made a lot of amendments so that the money wouldn't go there, and they went to the Ministry of Defense, with clear, specific directions. Part of buying weapons abroad, part of buying weapons from a national manufacturer, because it's too heavy even in this difficult environment that exists today. But part of it has to stay in the territories, and it has to stay in the communities, and it has to be used. Where they're used, you'll tell. A very clear list, and "European Solidarity" gave this list. First. To equip the bomb shelters. Not the drums there to buy as administration officials did in Kiev, I agree with Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. But by drums, I'm sorry, these processes were initiated by the head of the administration, who is certified by Mr. Greensky and appointed by Mr. Greensky. And here's what happens when it comes to real equipment, so that people can stay in this bomb shelter. The other one. It's for defense equipment. Because one of the things that is still surprising is that we have three lines of defense from 2014 to 2019 in the east and in the south. Three. You remember that at that time the war was stopped at a great distance, a long distance from Kiev, but since 2019 and, unfortunately, even starting with 24 February, fortification buildings are not being built in the right way, and in the right amount, unfortunately, they are not being built. And that's very wrong. This is the second point where local communities can spend. And the third very serious point is, I would say, the restoration of critical infrastructure. Let's be honest. I communicate with the mayors and the east and the south, and with many others, for example, in the west of the country. So yesterday, at the Hmelnicko Municipal Council of Fame, he actually reported to us about the situation that happened there when, you know, no surviving school, no surviving kindergarten, more than 1.5 thousand damaged homes. And you know what they said yesterday? This happened yesterday. That if, as the Office of the President and the "ministers of the people" had wanted, the PDF had been removed from October 1st, they would not have had the physical ability to assemble a session of the City Council after that blow and to urgently allocate money to rebuild at least schools and kindergartens. And they did, and they had that money. If it had gone away from October 1st, as you wanted, it wouldn't have been. And the key is frontal territory. There's Kharkiv, this year over 700 million dollars they're going to lose, next year over 3 billion 600 million dollars, and they need to recover. Instead of supporting the front of the community, it is differentiated to address this issue and, for example, not to touch at least the PDF, the military PDF of those communities that are on the front line today. Shopkeepers - 600 million will lose the next year for which they change windows today, patch up roofs, restore heat supply, restore electricity, and you take it away from them. Instead, you're kind of saying, "Come to Kiev, we'll give it all away." They've already passed. They've already passed. It was the same with Yanukovich. And I think Mr. Zelenski really wants to wear Janukovich's laurel. Because if the mayor doesn't have the money and the city council doesn't have the money, and they're told, we're gonna throw it to you from Kiev. We don't know how these processes are going to be built. Mary will come, their real, their colleagues will already talk about it today, they will divide it into measures that are with us, and measures that are not with us, and certain measures issue money, and certainly not. So the key question of decentralization was not in this, but in the independence of the local government, in the independence and capacity of the communities. And by destroying it in the form of war, you're ruining decentralization, which is a key principle, a key element, I mean the ability of the European Union's communities. And if you don't think they see it in Europe, they see it, they see it, and they make it. We have heard and are grateful to the President of the European Commission today, and we are confident that he is holding his fists to make that decision. But I'm sorry, when these negotiations begin, these 35 directions are always with me, always with me. And one of the directions is the decentralization and support of local communities, and we have to consider that. Now here's the next item I'd like to talk to you about. You say there's no money in the state, let's take the local money. And here, dear Ukrainians, I want to tell you that a couple of weeks ago in the same room was voted in spite of opposition, the 10038 bill on budget changes in the 23rd year, this one. So in addition to the fact that more than 300 billion dollars have actually been allocated to security and defence needs, they've been openly disbursed in pockets, in directions that don't apply to the security and defence sectors at all, over 10 billion. Now you're going to take 96 away from the local authorities next year. I've already found 10 for you. Where were they taken? And they were taken to the salaries of officials in the ministries, and that's what the investigative journalists wrote about, and they were charged to officials in the ministries. And one point in general surprised me: to improve the detention of Russian prisoners of war. If I'm not mistaken, 91 million dollars. We see that there is a cat with us, with our soldiers who are trapped. Did everyone forget Lenevka? It should be remembered. And you're doing it now. I think it's wrong when you say there's no money in the state. Could it have been prevented? Of course. Do ministries need this money? Of course not. This is the Ministry of Finance, and I'm grateful that we now have a deputy minister in this room. That's very nice, because very often ministers ignore their bills, well, they think and vote. Yeah, well, the Ministry of Finance asked itself further, if I'm not mistaken, 272 million on wages there or pay. While they had 252 unexploited wages and salaries. There's a simple human question: why do you take money when you can't make effective use of what you have? The same situation with the Ministry of Ecology, one at a time: they have more than 80 unused, and they ask for another 40. You know, the misunderstanding story, the misunderstanding. Now. I mean, where am I going with this? To what someone says is that there is no money in the state, if it is wise to approach the government budget, they are, that is, 10 billion only in changes by 2023. Besides, why did you spend all year, you're the President's Office, you're the central authority, you're Zelensky's team, you spent your money centrally on new roads? Seal repairs and all, bridges and all, but, excuse me, there are no new roads to lay. You blame the local authorities, but the local authorities have done much less than you are centralized. What's the point if there's a pick-up in the government district at the Cabinet of Ministers? Why did you do that during the war when you could buy drones for this money, you could buy ammunition for that money? Now here's the next one. When you take away the PDF. What's this all about? Tax on the income of natural persons. The man lived in the community. She volunteered or went to the Armed Forces of Ukraine today, but her family, her wife, mother, father, and children remained in the same community. But the person there doesn't pay anymore; he pays where his military unit is registered. And there's a very simple question: how do you make up for that where your family lives? And it was compensated in such a way that this community started, not everywhere, but in many cases, to receive PDF from the military forces, which in turn were based in the community, where this volunteer or mobilized army came from. And this somehow compensated and had enough money to help the families and help the families of the dead, and to help the community's vitality so that the families of those on the front wouldn't sit without heat, without gas or electricity. Today you take it away, and tomorrow there will be no money in the community to restore electricity very quickly, to restore heat and so on. Do you think the military will be pleased with this? There's a systemic solution, and there's a lot of experts talking about it, so that the VAT is paid not by the place where the company is registered, where the person is working, or by the place where the military is registered, but by the way, the VAT is paid for by the person's place of registration. I mean, by the place, you remember the pens, but the pen is no longer in Ukraine, at the place of registration. It's one option, very systemic. But now that you've been served in principle and sent this bill for re-reading, you've had to differentiate communities and, yes, refer it exclusively to security and defence needs, excluding frontal communities, excluding frontal communities and excluding those where it is, let's say, a large number of military units. The second question is very interesting. Now the speed of communication and the rate of getting money, that's what we talked about yesterday, between the local authorities and the military, is three to five weeks tops. [[inexplicable]] This is with Prozorro, taking into account all procedures. That's the maximum. Sometimes even faster. This means that the military unit comes with its needs, sends a letter, the local authority comes out to Prozorro and transfers money or services, or the necessary units of goods to the military. And at the central level, you know how much does the period between asking and getting something? At best, three or four months. It's for the best if it's all right and it's all going well. Do you realize that speed today is the equivalent of saving people's lives? Yesterday, you know, I very much recommend that all the people's deputies continue to go to the ground, as they say, in a figurative sense, to continue to travel to the military and to communicate with the military. That's a simple question. You say, "We're going to channel 10 percent of the military PFC's funds directly into the brigade's accounts." Okay. Well, first of all, a little. It's not 10, it's 20, and it's a tough position for European Solidarity, 20 percent for brigades. But here's a simple question that was said yesterday. You know that volunteers still put a lot of extravagants (cassettes, jeeps) in the military. And not always do these military forces charge them for many reasons: they can't, they can't do that to the military at the moment. And the question is, how do you charge them? How can they be repaired? How, for example, can you repair or rehabilitate the drones that volunteers deliver that are not armed or are not charged in the military? They're actually being used. Now it's very fast and simple: the local community makes diesel fuel, and parts go into the military and it uses it. If you take the PFO to the local councils, to the local communities, and you're officially directing it to the military, then tomorrow all the volunteer outposts will become whether or not you'll put the fuel supply on the volunteer's side again. And on this point, I've only given you one example that the system doesn't work, that it should have been treated more carefully. The next step, the impostor, is. You're saying that local authority is a nuisance, it's just enough for us not to be in the Armed Forces. But, honourable Ukrainians, I want you to know, and today, colleagues from various factions and groups have already indicated that in the 23rd year alone, without any law, local communities have been targeting the security and defence sector for over 60 billion dollars. And there are communities that target even more than they get military VAT. Let's take Poltavian. For example, the Opisnian community has received military VAT since the beginning of the 23rd year, i.e. a tax on the income of individuals from military personnel of less than 20 million. At the same time, it was aimed at supporting the Ukrainian Armed Forces for some 60 million dollars, and they do not want to stop. They want to raise about 90 million dollars because they understand that today it is a matter that needs to be supported first. Today, the Armed Forces and the military must be supported first and foremost. Next story. As far as the local communities are concerned, I have already given you the example of Kharkiv, but there is much to be done in interviewing and saying what will be the losses in the local budget. We're taking the Mikolai. We all know what's going on there: constant shootings, constant reconstruction, critical infrastructure is constantly being destroyed by the Russians. So, Mikolai, if this law is passed, it's going to lose 2 billion 700 million dollars. And frankly, it's half of the city's money. That's what the local authorities say. And again, what you say to them is, don't worry, come to us, we'll do anything for you, and we'll give you money from Kiev. As one of the famous art experts said, I don't believe it. Because you're going to do it selectively. And unfortunately, the central authority today produces this trust. As for other areas. The Corinthian community, for example, is talking about the loss of 40 million dollars by the local budget. The New York-North head of the community is talking about losing 30 million dollars. The Seminian community is 30 million dollars. And for many communities, it's a very critical cost. The Jewish community in Lviv, it seems, is far from the front line, but the example of Glory has shown us all. They say they have about 12 million military PFCs right now, and if they take it away, they say the local community will be sitting there with no money. And here, as far as I'm concerned, why am I giving these examples? To make it clear that you can't just take a volunteer and take it away. Because, frankly, at the moment, this PDF is totaling, in general, 300 billion dollars for the year 2024 -- that's total. Local communities get 64 percent, that's 200 billion. So of these 200 you want to take every second bracelet in the local community to the central level. And now we're going to equal control. We've given a lot of permission to set an additional level of control. Because of this level of control, we think, and there are risks, because of this lack of control and there are risks that the transfer of money from the local to the central level will lead to much more corruption. And, you know, the question is yet another, the question is self-control. And here I understand DSSZI, the Ministry of Digital Transformation, they have this self-control, as I think it exists for a moment, because they come, they report, they answer questions, not formally, but with numbers, they try to do something. Self-control in Minstrategprom, I think, is almost gone. And a rhetorical question. Who do you think is easier to control: the mayors who walk the streets every day, or the ministers, or the deputy ministers, or the heads of the department from the Cabinet of Ministers who sit on the street of Gruszewski, around which the passage is banned? So what do you think? We've talked about this before, but it's a very serious story. The next question I'd like to ask is: Today in this room, the "Serial of the People" faction, if I'm not mistaken, we have 234 people, many of them majorists. I would. What I know is, majors from "servants," not all of them, but quite a lot, they also go to people and communicate with people. Our faction, all 27 as one, is constantly in the fields. We understand that as no one, we spend many hours driving to get to the region, to return, to communicate with people. And in Ukraine is whether or not we're going to go to budget issues for the budget committee, if I'm not mistaken, 1 000 469 local budgets. I think it's this number that's real. So, "European Solidarity" asked most communities, but almost all communities: how do you react to this bill, which will take out the military in the local government and turn it to the central level? We got hundreds of calls, and most of them, more than two hundred were voted in sessions, in many, you know, communities now don't have sessions, because there are military-civil governments, but we've got hundreds of appeals from local authorities, here's the list, so that this decision as a minimum has been changed, and they're openly saying that most of the local communities are directing taxes on the income of individuals from military units, again and again on military forces. And you know, I'd like to personally take this opportunity to go to those Maids of the People who may be present in this room today, although, frankly, they're hardly here to vote for this law, but to turn to the electorate for another story: control how they vote for this law. Because, I emphasize, the task is very simple: not to vote in favour of this law in the second reading, but to send it or to re-read it again, but the Rules do not seem to allow it, even though not, once again allows it to do so, if I am not mistaken, and there is already to take into account that 20 percent of it is directly directed to the brigades, the PRSPs should receive money instead of the Ministry of Defence, but under control, for example, the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council and NATO representatives, and also leave some part of it in the communities for bomb shelters, critical infrastructures and fortifications. But it is certainly differentiated in this bill to approach communities on the front line or the front line. Here's how it's done. And let's keep an eye on it, and as Maxim Pashkowski, elected in District 11, Winnitsa; Anatoly Drabowski, elected in District 12, Winnitsa; Irina Borzowa, elected in District 14 in the city of Žmerinka. How will they vote for this? Do they really support channelling money into a warrior who's in the trench, or do they want this money to go through, they say, a black hole in the central budget and a large part of it, as we saw in the account report, would be stolen? And how will Bogdan Kitsak, elected in 63 districts in the city of Berdichov; Dmitri Kostuk, elected in the district of 65 in Novograd-Wolinski; Sergey Kuzminy, elected in 67 districts, the city of Weirds? How will they vote? Will they really support the ideas that most of the opposition is producing today, that's what has happened, and European Solidarity, which is the biggest opposition force in Ukraine today and faction number two in parliament? Will they want to channel this into the black hole of the central budget? Mikhailo Laba, Mikhailo Mikhailovich, selected in the town of Svalja in the Zakarpatsky region So what I'd really like to do is, do you support this to disappear in the central budget, and how do you steal from the roads at high prices, or do you support it to go to a real fighter? Kyiv district. Mr. Oleg Andriyovich Dunda, 91st Makarov District; Mr. Valeriy Viktorovich Koluh, Uzin City; Alexander Horobec, District 95; Irpin, Olga Mikhaylovna Vasilevska-Smagluk, District 96, Vyshgrad; Mikola Galusko, elected in 97 district, the town of Brovari. And why am I doing this under the transcript here? Then they won't be able to say that they didn't know what they were voting for or if they didn't. They are now personally warned under the transcript, and this can be confirmed by the Chief of the Supreme Council, who is now present in this room. And he clearly understands that now it's a personal responsibility, not a collective one. Kirovograd district. Alexander Danuza, elected 99th in Kropivinski. Let's see what he's up to. Mr. Igor Murdy, Zelensky's team, elected in the 100th district of Bobrinec; Yuri Kubbitt, Golovanowski, District 101. There are many military units in the Kirovograd region. And are you going to put this in the central budget -- the black hole where they're going to steal it, as shown in the Court of Auditors (there's a report on my desk right now, you see, here it is), or are you actually going to point it in the direction that a particular fighter needs? Lviv district. How are we going to get a vote from Yuri Alexanderovich Kamelchuk, elected to Sokal, 124th District? How will Oreste Igorovich Salamaha vote, this is Drogobic, 121st District? The Lviv area, you can see how many flights there are, and you need to restore it. And now, unfortunately, the PDF, which comes from enterprises, because the number of jobs is shrinking, unfortunately, it's shrinking there. The Mikolai region. We talked to you about the loss of over 2 billion 600 million dollars in Santa Claus alone in the city. And how will Mr. Alexander Stanislavovich Pasicky, 127th District, the city of Mikolayev vote? How will Igor Negulewski, the city of Bashtanka, vote in 130 counties? How is it going to vote -- unfortunately, he's not here today -- he was very active in the previous discussion of this budget, Maxim Evgenovich Dirdin, elected 132nd District, the city of Pervomaysk? Well, I think if he was, he might be able to answer right now. The region of Chernobyl. Olenna Georgievna Lis, 201 district, town of Chernivci Maxim Valentinovich Zarisky, 202nd District, Guardian. How will Valery Ivanovich vote Christmas from Hotina, 204th District? I see that Georgiy Georgievich Mazurasu, Novoselica, 203rd District is present in the hall. And in principle, he put a lot of rights into this law to correct this situation, because, let's face it, and in the Service of the People there are MPs who understand that, as it is now stipulated in the law, you can't do that. Because, unfortunately, unheard of are very constructive, very meaningful amendments made by the national MPs who offered to direct this money. Yes, to target security and defense needs, but nevertheless, to direct them in a different way. You know, I'm going to continue this list now. Once again, with one very simple goal: to make people understand that this is a personal responsibility. They'll hear about it. And the people on the scene, the Ukrainians on the scene, will know that these deputies were warned about the results of their vote. But is this the first time that, in terms of channeling money into security and defense, they are directed toward completely different goals? Let's put it this way, in this room in 2022 there was a bill that was directly written: take the money out of the security and defence sector and put it on the road. That's right. Those who were present remember that I went to the rostrum and read the text of the bill so that people could see. Unfortunately, the "Serve of the People" and the remains of the OPCW backed this bill and it passed. In addition, I think the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance, the deputy minister present in this room today, remembers when in 2022 too, in the form of a transfer of money to the security and defence sector, more than 100, if I am not mistaken, billions of dollars wanted to be transferred from the general to the special state budget fund under manual administration. And it was only because of the pressure of European Solidarity that it was done with such a small but very important observation that this money could be spent exclusively on security and defence needs. But during our constructive work with the majority representatives, we added: and also to support internally displaced persons. Because we knew it was important. Let's move on. Chernigiv district. How are we going to get this bill to take money to the local communities and flip every second bracelet, the black hole of the central budget, will be voted by Oleg Seminski, elected in Chernigów, 205th District, Maxim Zujev, Koryukowka, 207th, Valery Zub, town of Nazia, 209th? It's important. Nigga, you watch how these deputies vote for this. Because this is a position that, in the form of good intentions, will make theft on the central budget, unfortunately, bigger. Lugansk Region, Alexei Alexanderovich Kuznitsov, Sevierodonetsk, 106th. How will he vote? And that's important. I agree with Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. Odessa District, Oleg Viktorovich Kolev, 134th District, Odessa. Alexei Leonov, 135th District, Odessa. Alexander Gorenjuk, 136th District, Odessa. Stepan Cherniavsky, Death of Shirayev, 138th District. Sergey Koleboshin, 140th District, Belyayevka. And Alexander Tkachenko is no longer a deputy, but nevertheless. What's so interesting? He's driving, I hope he's going to his county. He won't vote, but I'd like to talk to my colleagues in his place and assure you that this bill cannot be voted on. And we're talking about this now with one goal: we want to bring every national MP who's going to vote in favour of this bill, that in the way that this is done right now, we can't definitely do this because, unfortunately, this system is now going to lead to theft, loss, we can already pick the language here, about 30 billion dollars. So there's a simple understanding: 96 billion dollars will be taken from the local government, about 30 dollars from our estimate, unfortunately, could be corruptly stolen. And this, for the understanding of the Ukrainians, is what the Greens team is going to vote today in this room. Not today, but the day we get to the vote. And the next. I hope that those national MPs who are here today, who are listening to our arguments, who are listening to our figures, who are proving what the losses are going to be local budgets; who are talking about front communities; who are talking about the mechanisms that can be applied; we are talking about how to correct this, what unit, how to save, how to prevent corruption, they will, by listening to all this, pass it on to those national MPs who are not in the room today, but can listen and make their decisions. And I am grateful that today we have the first deputy head of the People's Servant, Andri Viktorovich Motovilovac. I sincerely hope that he has heard all of this and at a meeting of the nearest "Serial of the People" faction, he will convince the faction not to support this bill in the second rereading and send it back to the committee to work together systematically and not allow more than 30 billion dollars to be stolen. They'll steal, let's be honest. Who says it won't, eggs of 17, so on the neck, and eggs of 9, after the scandal. You see, even the scandal hasn't changed anything, even the exit to ProZorro in the way it is now has not changed anything, because the other goal, the different goals. And once again, we're criticizing this bill right now, we're just criticizing it, us opposition colleagues and others. He is criticized by those present in this room, those who are not present in part today. But nevertheless, what we're proposing, and we're talking about this clearly, not less than 20 percent directly for the brigade accounts, or maybe 10 percent to leave in the communities. But clearly, this is spent on bomb shelters, fortifications, and the restoration of critical infrastructure that has suffered from rocket and drone attacks by Russians. Another 70 percent we're talking about buying weapons. And if 35 percent can be directed towards PRSPs, and I tell you again, we believe that we can discust, we can criticize this mechanism that was invented by Deputy Prime Minister Fedorov along with the leadership of PRSPs, but we sincerely hope that it will work. But instead of 35 percent of the Ministry of Strategic Industry that doesn't understand what they're doing, where they might be releasing weapons, but at higher prices, but we'll never know because, believe me, it'll be classified as a state of war, in the form of an arms issue, and it'll be directed to the Ministry of Defense and again as a minimum with a 50 percent localization to be released in Ukraine, because we see what's going on in the world and how it is doing in the world. And so from these mistakes, we want to protect our country today, because how we adopt this bill depends on people's lives on the front, on how fast they get money. And I remind you, the rate of getting money from local communities is weeks, the rate of getting money from central authority is at best one month. We want to keep this rate, we want to keep financing the needs that are targeting the local authorities today, I mean 2023, our military units, but we really agreed to that, for example, at the Hmelnicki meeting yesterday, all local authorities, we need to make sure that they don't spend the VAT on the buggy. But attention, first of all, when the central authority urges the local authorities to do so, it should show the example of its own example of proving that it is not necessary to spend money on a pebble. And here, unfortunately, she does the opposite. She's doing it the other way around, spending it just on dirt. And by continuing this, you know, I can count all the areas. I can count the Kharkiv area because Mayor Kharkiv has already said that the following year more than three billion 600 million Harks will lose. And today there was an amendment in this room that, as a minimum, in Kharkiv and the front of the community, Mr. Alexander Bakum, raised this amendment, could return the money. Unfortunately, the hall did not support it. But I'd like to now list some of the deputies that were elected in Kiev. And in Kiev. I'll explain: Kiev is very helpful to the military at this point, but let's be honest about getting ready for the attack (he's on Kiev now, again), we need to build fortification buildings, we don't have anything wrong with the bomb shelters. The representatives of the European Solidarity faction in Kyivrad personally visited almost every bomb shelter in our capital. And it's not all right. And this is the area of responsibility of the heads of the military and civilian administrations assigned to Kiev by Mr. Zelenski. I'll remind you again, Mr. Greensky's signature is in these people's credentials. Just as this bill will be voted in the 213rd district of Artem Vasilovich Dubnov, a figure in the 214th district of Sergei Schwetz; elected in the 216th district, elected, Lesia Valentinovna Zabranna; elected in the 217th district (this is the Obolonian region) Mariana Volodymyrna Bezugla; in 218th District elected Dmitri Gurin; elected in 220th District of Hanna Bondar; in 221st District elected Anna Purtova; and elected in 222nd District of Roman Pavlovich Gritchuk? Will they send this bill for re-reading and we will be able, together (I emphasize) all factions and groups, to correct it so that the money will come really quickly and satisfy the needs of the fighter in the trench? Will they vote to take away 96 billion dollars from local communities, turn into a black hole in the central budget, and regrettably make more than 30 billion dollars potentially stolen? And once they're stolen, you know, we've already clearly seen this in the example of the central authorities that we're talking about stealing today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u345	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Arthur Volodymyrovich, we've already said that this is the initiation of this first parliamentary podcast, which can even be put on some kind of network. Thank you. This is indeed, in my memory, the first such performance, well - founded. Thank you. Moving on, Arthur Volodymyrovich. The next amendment is 554, Mommy. Don't insist. 555, Purtova. Don't insist. 556th, Krulko. Don't insist. 557th, Timoshenko. I'm on it. 558th, Petrunjak. He'll be smart. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u346	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 558, 560, 561. And give me three more rights: 619 to 21 -- so there's 6 total rights. And give me four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u347	Please, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u348	First, I wanted to draw attention to the halls on the right hand side, more faithfully, to those national deputies of the few who have a conscience who have stayed here and continue to work, no matter what. This is to provide for a grant from the state budget to local budgets to repay debt on medium-term loans and interest-free loans granted to the local budget at the expense of the single treasury account in 2009-2014. That's actually what the Council of Regions promised, and the representatives of Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and even the President, if I'm not mistaken, promised that this would be done. Sadly, though, there is no such thing today. I very much hope that you will be able to explain why you do not want to fulfill the obligations that officials have undertaken in their own time. But I'd like to go back, Yuri Mikhailovich, to what you said before, it's a matter of parties. You know, it's very strange to hear from a representative of the President's faction, from a majority representative, from a member of the profile committee, with all due respect to you, when you talk about taking money from political parties, it's somehow going to have a negative impact on the Ministry of Strategic Affairs, the Ministry of Strategic Affairs. How's that? No, you just said it was somehow related. I'd like you to explain what you meant? Because I didn't understand why the party funding was there. So now you're going into another law where you're taking funding from the local government. You're taking money from the community. And it's nothing to worry about that other laws determine that these funds should be there, so voted on, so accepted -- they're fixed behind them. That's okay. And when I tell you, and let me tell you something, like the whole state, you're going to stretch your belts, and you're not going to spend your money on your own parties, you're going to stop playing politics, you're going to stop preparing for elections, you're going to stop doing anything, you're going to stop doing anything, you're going to be doing it on government issues. You're telling me, no, no, it's another law, so we can't vote "Smart Politics" here because we can't take money to the party because we're "Serve of the People." How much for the next year will the People's Servant receive government funding? About a million 900, if I'm not mistaken. Maybe I'm wrong, you can fix me. I really want to hear this answer, if you know it, and I think that just like Ukrainian society wants to hear how much money you're spending on yourself. I realize this is an awkward question, Ruslan Alexiyovich, but I would like to hear the answer to a past that you haven't answered either. Why don't you take the money to the party and send it to the army? What's stopping you? In the local government, you can take it and give it to the party, and in the party you have to have millions. Why? And in parallel, I'm going to ask you to put the adjustments I've made to the vote. I hope that your comprehensive answer, the professional answer, will always apply to both them and how, if you take the money to the party, will you harm national security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u349	Yes, would you please have the position of the committee on these amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u350	By 558, I understand correctly, dear colleagues, do you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u351	558th, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u352	Dear colleagues, this is not supported by the committee because the explanation that in the state of war, the financial resources of the state budget are still extremely limited by the considerable burden of providing security at the expense of the country’s defence and protection of the population. And for what I told you about the 17-1 party funding article, here's the question. Once again, this needs to be decided by a separate law, not by amendments to the Budget Code. I think if there's such a desire, we can take the initiative to see if it's going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u353	Dear colleagues, we're putting in 558, aren't we? All three: 558, 560, 561, right? 558 Amendments to Reasonable and Colleague. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[21:06:11]] For-9 The decision is not taken. 560 amendments to the authorship of Razumkov. The committee's not accepted. The committee's dismissed, I'm sorry. And please vote 560. [[21:06:33]] For-9 The decision is not taken. And Amendment 561 of Reasonable and Colleague. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[21:06:55]] For-9 The decision is not taken. 559th, Alekseiv. Don't insist. 562nd, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 563 Aliksiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 564th, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 565th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 566th, Bondar. Don't insist. 567th, Mazurashu. We're through. We're moving on. 568th, Pasic. Don't insist. 569th, Laba. Don't insist. 570th, Laba. Don't insist. 571th, Pasic. Don't insist. 572, Mama. Don't insist. 574th, Krulko. Don't insist. 575th, Timoshenko and his colleagues have already spoken. 576th, Lozinski. Don't insist. 578, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. Sorry, we missed 577 Bezgin. Overruled. Don't insist. 579th, Mikisha. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u354	Thank you. What's this paper about? We are working hard to allow local self - government to use funds to help the Armed Forces of Ukraine. It's a technical possibility. At present, it is not possible to use a special local budget fund for anything other than the special fund. Just in a nutshell, so you know what I mean. For example, environmental taxes, if paid to the local budget, can be used exclusively for environmental purposes, but there is a lot of money that can no longer be used. And our paper says, let's allow local self-government to be used to help the Armed Forces. But for some reason, the committee refused to do so and refused to do so. That's what I'm explaining in simple words to ordinary people who are now protesting against local self-government that they don't have the capacity. And now we're trying to give them this opportunity. Unfortunately, it is not supported by the committee. And I would very much like the Supreme Council to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u355	Dear colleagues, Micah’s 579th Amendment and colleagues were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[21:09:23]] For -8 The decision is not taken. 580th, Kisilevski. Declined. Don't insist. 581th, Alekseyev. Don't insist. 582nd, Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u356	Ruslan Alexiyovich, please give me 582, 601, 603 and 718 to 720, four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u357	Please, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u358	Dear colleagues, with regard to the remedy itself. This is suggested to establish that, under the conditions of martial law, as an exception to article 99 and article 100 of this Code, recalculate the reverse subsidies to the state budget from local self - government budgets so that they do not do so. According to a large account, you said in your previous speech that MPs don't support taking away. No, you said. Okay, I agree. You said we'd look at the reaction in the room, see if they'd be willing to vote for it. I would very much like to look at the reaction in the room if Parliament's leadership were to ensure the presence of the people's deputies, because we are now looking at a bill, an important bill for you, unfortunately, an important bill, if it's not adopted, for the local authorities, for the ordinary citizens, because this bill just wants to take money into the least protected territories and those who need real help today, help the local authorities. And going back to. I'm surprised at all, because you're the Mayors themselves, and it's strange that you support such initiatives, but nevertheless I'd very much like to have national MPs in the hall to demonstrate their position as they support or support the transfer of money from parties to the U.S.S.A. When you tell me that you have to change the law, I would like to remind you that in the past part of the party funds were removed and shipped during COVID to provide our medics. Do you remember that? You were on the budget committee. Nothing bothered you then, because there was the position of the President's Office, there was a position that you were given, you implemented it, and you conducted it, including on the committee. In this case, we just see a banal reluctance to take money into the party, you're preparing for an election, everyone's talking about it, even Ruslan Alexiyovich has five positions that are necessary to ensure that the elections are held, it's not clear why in the occupied territories. How you're gonna do it, I don't know. But I have another question. How have we missed such an important aspect as the safety of citizens? Sadly, this was not the case in those statements made by the authorities. This shows that the important thing is not the result you want to get in the election, it's important that you just want to conduct it and secure it, probably behind you, because you still don't want to take the money and direct it without the need of our defenders. It's about what's contrary to the law, it's contrary to 80 percent of the position of our fellow citizens, it's contrary to common sense, it's contrary to democracy, it's contravening the international position of our partners. But all of this doesn't stop you, and the desire to continue playing politics, to prepare for elections, it takes leadership positions. Just because you don't want to take the money from the party and send it to the army, that's what I'm saying. I very much hope that you will be able to take a position on the amendments that I have raised, because they are definitely not about something ephemeral, but about a specific question. They were not supported on the committee. I understand that it is unlikely that there will be a chance of supporting them, since 15 national deputies in the hall are difficult to vote on. But, nevertheless, I will put them to the vote. Please then, Ruslan Alexiyovich, put all three votes to the vote. And, Your Honor Yuri Mikhailovich, please give us a position on why this was not supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u359	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u360	So, your honorary colleague, 582 revisions, it's not supported by the committee because the non-recalculation rule is already included in the draft budget for the 24th year, and plus it's in this law in 729 right. So we leave the reverse grant in place. That's right. 583, as far as I can remember, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u361	601th and 603rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u362	I'm sorry, I need a second. I'll bet. Now, a technical question.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u363	601th and 603rd, yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. I'll just let you know that these adjustments are also rejected. Dear colleagues, so you're proposing these three amendments, right? 582nd. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not according to the Rules, Dmitri Alexanderovich. 582 Amendment Reasonable and Colleague. It's rejected. Please vote. [[21:15:42]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. 580. Excuse me, 601 Amendment Reasonable and Colleague. Also rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[21:16:05]] For-9 The decision is not taken. And 603 amendments to Reasonable and Colleague. Please vote. [[21:16:24]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, colleagues. 583, Aliksiyczuk and his colleagues. Don't insist. 584th, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 585th, Bondar. Don't insist. 586th, Mikisha. Are you insisting? Please, Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u364	Thank you. The regulation that we should allow local self-government to help materially the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the entire security and defence sector. How long can we talk about this? Let us help local self - government unhindered in a legitimate way to do the right things they have been doing since 24.02.2022. There are a lot of communities that have been helping, helping, and almost all of their military PFCs are giving help to the Armed Forces. As an example, the Opišnjan Council, Mikola Raznik's head. By the way, it is his initiative to allow local self-government to provide material support to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. A head who's given away almost all of his military PFCs so far, but he can be punished for it. Let's help local self-government not go to play for wanting to help their army that defends them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u365	Committee position. You can also report to Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u366	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleague, under previous regulations, I apologize for actually being a technical failure. I looked at these changes, 601st and next -- it's already about reverse subsidies, and the answer is the same thing. There's a question settled on a 729-way reverse grant, and it stays in place. Now for 586. Colleagues, we have already said that the issue of supporting the security and defence sector is regulated in the Ukrainian Budget Code, particularly in paragraph 22-2, where inter-budgetary transfers can be made by local communities and transfer money to the central budget, where the Cabinet of Ministers then decides on the defence complex, how to distribute it. That's why there won't be any money here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u367	Thank you. 587 repairs, Mama. Don't insist. 588th, Prostuk. Don't insist. 589th, Mama. Don't insist. 590th Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 591s, Savichuk. Don't insist. 592nd, Krulko. Don't insist. 593, Aliksiyczuk and his colleagues. Don't insist. 594th, Aliksiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 595th, Timoshenko with colleagues. They've already said it. 596, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 597th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 598th, Shapovalov. Don't insist. 599th, Bondar. Don't insist. 600th, Alekseyev. Don't insist. 602th, Aleksiev. Don't insist. 604th, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 605, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 606th, Timoshenko with colleagues. They've already said it. 607th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 608th, Bondar. Don't insist. 609, Alekseyev. Don't insist. 610th, Iron. Don't insist. 611, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u368	Three singles: 611, 612, 713. And please add another 721, 722, 723 rights for 4 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u369	Please, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u370	The amendment proposes to allow local communities to approve programmes to strengthen the security and security of the state and to promote the material and technical security of the USSR, socio-economic development, targeted programmes, other issues of local self-government on the transfer of funds in the form of inter-budget transfers to the relevant local budget and relevant units of the combined forces, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to strengthen defence. In fact, what's this about? That's what I said, my colleagues from the "Smart Politics" team said a few minutes ago. These are amendments aimed at allowing local authorities to transfer their resources to the Ukrainian Armed Forces in parallel with specific ones. Not some budget, not some Shurma, not some minister who buys three-way food for our defenders, but directly the army units, mostly, yes, we have to understand, they're the ones that will be based there. They're helping them repair the PDA. They help them to buy the equipment they need. They help them buy technology. They help them buy uniforms if necessary. They help with food, they help with drones, unlike the state that's just piranha, so you just drive these drones around, you exhibit them, you shoot them all the time, and then you tell them that you passed them on to someone, because on the front of those drones, no one has heard or seen them, unfortunately. Unfortunately, that is why this amendment would just allow the local authorities to provide and assist our defenders. At the same time as preparing the communities for the heating season, before the authorities did not do so, she was unable to prepare critical infrastructure. And if, for God's sake, there's something coming after him, you're going to spread your hands, you're going to say, "So we told you to buy generators." And generators buy the three-way because you don't want to make two bills of "Smart Politics" are bills of 10024, 10025, identical to those that were last year, but which were completed in order to cost generators to the population. You don't do that because you play politics. You don't want me to take the money back to the party, you want to spend it just the way you want it, or, more faithfully, not you, but the way it's going to be from the President's Office, where it's going to be sent. And many of these examples. We understand that the budget that was being considered by the Supreme Council, which sent it to the Cabinet of Ministers and Minfin, you have completely rewrote it by actually rewriting it in the Bank's walls and in the cabinets of the Ministers of Ukraine. And now a completely different bill is coming to the Council, not what was voted in the Hall. I just want everyone to understand that sooner or later we have to answer for it. That's not how it works. This is the area of responsibility of the Supreme Council. You're painting what you want on your lap. And now you just want to take away more resources so that you have more resources to meet your demands. Wealthy, very often not in the interests of the State, but in the pursuit of its own authority. So I don't even know how to comment, and I really hope that there will still be more deputies in the next session, and we will, when we go through other conceptual papers, and we will follow them, I think we can put them to a vote and still get the required number of votes to at least improve this bill. Thank you. Amendments to the vote please be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u371	612-y, 613-y, right? 612 revision of the authorship. 611 Amendments to Reasonable and Colleague. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[21:24:29]] For -8 The decision is not taken. 612th Authorship of Reasonable and Colleague. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[21:24:48]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. The 613th authorship of Reasonable and Colleague. Please vote. [[21:25:07]] For -8 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 614 by Saucuk. Don't insist. 615th Rubleov authorship. Don't insist. The 616th authorship of Goncharenko. Please, Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u372	Three orders 616, 744, 750. Please give me two minutes, I'll put one of them to the vote, 744.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u373	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u374	Thank you. Dear friends, you know, what do all people ask? Where are the deputies? Where are the MPs from?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u375	We're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u376	We have 15 deputies in our room. By the way, I think these 15 deputies deserve to be named after their names. Well, here's Spiker Stefanchuk, First Deputy Kornienko, Head of the Podlas Budget Committee, Head of the Herasimov "ES" faction, National Deputy of Razumkov, Cimbaluk, Nekludov, Babi, Mikisha, I, Puskarenko, Mazurashu, Bakumov. Didn't I forget anyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u377	You forget, you just don't know the others.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u378	Cossack. And, of course, the people's deputy of Cusbitt behind the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u379	There's a catcher. And a national MP, Litchman. That's it. Friends, I've just listed all the national deputies present. Who'd you forget?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u380	But they all forgot.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u381	I'm sorry, Travel, I've forgotten more, everyone. Where are 400 people's deputies, what are they all doing now? That's really fantastic: the working day, the head of the Supreme Council, made us a meeting today. It's a holiday! By the way, first in November. It's not like they've already reworked. We started at 2:30, it's not even seven hours yet as we work. Where are the Ukrainian national deputies? Why aren't they at work? Why the doctor doesn't come to work, he'll be expelled, the doctor won't come to work, he'll be expelled. Why? Our guys watching all this from the front, they're shocked by it. We're looking at the most important bill -- there are no people. The amendment that I'm going to put to the vote so that this law will at least work, if it works, since January 1st. You want to take the money back in unconstitutional terms, since October 1st. We've got November! Are you out of your mind? How can you take back money? Well, wake up!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u382	Listen, guys. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, see, the Rules are reprimanded if someone has been offended. I don't think your last name offends you. Dear colleagues, on the contrary, it is the most important name and surname that makes you individual. Dear colleagues, please. 744, right, Alexei Alexiovich? 744th, Goncharenko. Declined by the committee. Please vote. [[21:28:17]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Next. 617, Grissom. Don't insist. 622nd Raducci. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 623rd, Yatzenka. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 624th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 625th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 626th. Arthur Volodymyrovich, we remember how you used these adjustments. Thank you again. It was very interesting. 626th, Gerasimov. 627th, Gerasimov. 628th, Gerasimov and his colleagues. 629th, Gerasimov. 630, Gerasimov. 631, Gerasimov. 632th, Gerasimov. 633rd, Gerasimov. 634th, Gerasimov. 635th, Gerasimov. 636th, Gerasimov. 637th, Gerasimov. 638th, Gerasimov. 639th, Gerasimov. 640s, Gerasimov. 641s, Gerasimov. 643, Gerasimov. 644, 645, same author. 646, 647, the same author. 648, 649, 650. Wait a minute, I'm counting all your revisions. I'm sorry. Arthur Gerasimov. 650th, Arthur Gerasimov, and all the other amendments that I'm going to call the authorship of the same subject of the legislative initiative. This is 651, 652, 653, 654, 655, 656, 657. I said that all the other authors of the same legislative initiative, Arthur Gerasimov. 658, 659, 660, 661, 662, 663, 664, 665, and even 666 Arthur Volodymyrovich. 667, 668, 669, 670, 671, 672, 673, 674, 675, 676, 677, 678, 679, 680, 681, all by Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. And the following are 682, 683, 684, 685, 686, 687, 688, 689 and even 690 by Arthur Vladimirovich Gerasimov. The same amendments to the same authorship were 691, 692, 693, 694, 695, 696, 697, 698, 699, 699, 700 and 701 and 702, 703, 704, 705, 706, 707, 708, 709, 710, 711 and 712 by Arthur Vladimirovich Gerasimov. And the following are 713, 714, 715, 716, 717. This is 717th, this was until Arthur Volodymyrovich's last amendment. And 724th is already the authorship of Dmitry Alexandrovich Razumkov. And the 718's already passed, we've passed here, they're used. I know that Dmitri Alexanderovich has already spoken for them. He stopped at 724th. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please. Mikisha will, won't she? Please, Dmitri Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u383	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 724, 25, 26, 27, 736, and 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u384	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u385	What's all this about? They specify, as in principle, all the amendments that we've made before, they make the bill more clear, more precise, and they clarify what should be used to make the funds, how they should go, where they should go, who they should agree with, what the principal of the funds and everything else. This is exactly who the Ministry of Finance is supposed to agree with. This is where all of this is made clear. We always talk about it in our papers. About what? The main thing is that the funds that will be taken and taken into the central budget and then used, they have to be used correctly, transparently, clearly, so that people don't have any questions. That's all that matters. Because, look, when they're used locally, people see how they're used, they can control it. They can come and ask the question accordingly: where was it spent, what was the amount of money purchased, whether one or the other was purchased, or whether it was purchased as an example of a car (a pickup, a van), or a purchased tractor and a transferred, purchased drone, anti-drone rifles, or purchased anything else, and handed over to the citizens, the citizens of the respective communities, who are now on the front? They can come in, ask and get an answer, get a report on where they're using the money that comes from their taxes, where they're going. They go to the local budget and they can ask for them. Now they're going to the central budget. And when manipulated, they say that something local self - control is wrong, it's bad use. Yeah, a few dozen mischievous mayors are using, aren't they? And look, it's a question. They say they're misusing it, and the central level, where all this money, where it was used? The main question is, where are these drones? I know exactly how I communicate with the military when they get a direct drone, a wave, or whatever, when they get directly from local self-government. And what the centralized Ministry of Defense is supposed to buy, they say we haven't seen these "maviks," any of them, any drones, and it's very hard to get. And they say, give us the opportunity to get, keep getting help from local self-government. I repeat, by August 2023, assistance to the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other security and defence sectors, military units, for more than 60 billion dollars. Everything you need to know.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u386	Thank you. Let's move on to the next amendment. One second, 731st, Cusbit. Cubbitt, don't you insist? 732th, Roadside. Don't insist. 733rd, Gevko. You don't insist, do you? 734th, Frolov. Don't you insist? 735th, Pasic. Don't you insist? 737. Mocan. Don't insist. 738, Gerasimov. I'm sorry, you're here too. Please, 737th, right, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u387	Yes, Ruslan Alexiyovich, 737th Tyre. 739, 742, 743, 759, 763, 964. Here's seven bars, give me five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u388	Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u389	Dear colleagues, we're going through a lot today, and unfortunately, they're not getting the required number of votes, but let's talk in parallel about preparations for the heating season. We talked today about what the central government needs, according to the majority, according to the committee staff, according to the Office of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, additional resources and they say it's going to go to the security and defence sector. Well, as it spends on the security and defence sectors, it's shown by the House of Auditors, where billions of dollars have been spent on nothing, and so far no one has been held responsible. I took the opportunity to speak, Ruslan Alexiyovich, and I wanted to address you. Ruslan Alexiyovich! As head of the Supreme Council, raise the Conciliation Question about hearing the report of the Court of Auditors on corruption in the Ministry of Defence, how state funds have been lost, because today we want to take resources from the local government, and we want to understand where they have gone. It's a accountable structure for us, I think they'll find the time and the honorable responsibility of coming and reporting on how it happened. And we'd be interested in listening, and perhaps it would be interesting to listen to the anti-corruption authorities, the D.B.I. As Head of the Supreme Council, you have exactly that authority, and I think a report like this could be heard in the walls of the Supreme Council. That would be interesting to our defenders in the first place. But back in preparation for the heating season as a whole, before critical infrastructures are prepared. I started to look at the statements of our famous ministers, the heads of structures, as they prepare for the heating season. They say that the critical infrastructure -- 22 substations in Ukraine -- will be protected until the end of the war. Tell me, please, and people really need their substations to protect them until the end of the war, maybe it did have to be done before? But that's not happening. There's no profile committee today, I'd like to hear it. Unfortunately, he's not here. There is no Prime Minister today, his place is taken by Mr. Motovilovac. I think it's a future step for him, he's already resting in his chair. I think he would actually be no less effective in this position, but he doesn't want anything. Coming back. Andrew Viktorovich, don't go, there's a good place, look, the Prime Minister hasn't wanted to leave him in a while. And seriously, let's go back to preparing for the heating season. You put money in the budget to protect critical infrastructure. They weren't used because there are no normal professionals who can do that. Najam is speaking, he says, we're one of the first in this respect, we're going after everyone, but we're going to finish it by the end of the war. People look and think: Is it power or what is it? The end of the war. By the end of winter, you will have protected critical infrastructure. Maybe this was supposed to be done in the summer? We have a minister of energy, the only logical offer from him is, you know, buy the generators again, because we didn't do anything. And you want to take more money, take it out of the road fund, not as the Smart Politics team suggests, give it directly to the military and to buy and repair equipment, but take it into the general budget base and then use it ineffectively again. And by the word "inefficient," I'm actually saying that they're going to be broken at best, and in the worst case, they're going to be stolen. As practice has shown, this is a perfect fact, and I am ashamed of what international journalists have already begun to talk about, and recognized journalists who have been awarded state awards in the past year, which are recognized not only in Ukraine, but also outside our country, and they are already directly saying that even in the middle of the government, there is a notion that they are stealing, as in the last day, as in the last day, as in the last day, or that tomorrow will not come. These are very scary statements from international society, and they're not just headlines in Time, but this is the position that started in Europe and the United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u390	738, Gerasimov. Arthur Volodymyrovich has already spoken. 740th authorship, the same author, Arthur Volodymyrovich. He's already on the stand. The 741st authorship of Gerasimov Arthur. He's on. 745th, Hero. Don't insist. Oh, she's already been there. 746th, Rubble. Don't insist. 751, Krulko. Don't insist. 752, Mama. Don't insist. 753, Prostuk. Don't insist. 754th, Prostruk. Don't insist. 755th, Grissom. Don't insist. 756th, Grissom. Don't insist. 757th, Fris. Don't insist. 758th, Tistik. Don't insist. 761s, Savichuk. Don't insist. 762, Purtova. Don't insist. 765th Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 766, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 767, Tymoshenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 768, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 769, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 770, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 771st, Shapovalov. Don't insist. 772, Bondar. Don't insist. 773, Aide with a colleague. Don't insist. 774, Gerasimov. I'm on it. 775th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. Is he insisting? 775th, Petrunjak. And there's no Mikishi, there's Petrunjak, Zagorajko and Razumkov. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u391	Then 775, 785, 786, 787 and 788. This is five rights, please give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u392	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u393	Dear colleagues, back to the right and to the questions raised by our society, you know, mistrust in the vertical authorities today is too high. To be honest, it is very hurtful to see how in one and a half years of war, we lost three times the support of society in one and nine months of war. And, unfortunately, your merit is the merit of the representatives of power, which is not in the walls of Parliament today, even you don't listen, you're funny. But you weren't laughing at the 24th number, the Ministry was better off. Departments, they just weren't here most of the time. And most of the time, the MPs were, you have to give due respect to your colleagues, who went any further, that's another question, and where they stayed on the 24th night, but on the 24th morning, the Council was sitting. So to be honest, I'm sad to see when the level of trust has dropped three times, and why we're being overtaken even by the Cabinet of Ministers, which is strange. And when I look at the statements of individual officials and the proposals that are being made to the authorities, I think we're not working that long. The military is very excited about what's going on in Kiev, what's going on in parliament, even now the guys have written, they say, they've looked at how cool your session is, we think it's wrong. And I think it's wrong, because either the whole state is working for the result, or the whole state, or the national MPs, who were there at the beginning, telling very much that they came to listen to Mrs. Ursula, and then I don't see them in the hall. I repeat, Ruslan Alexiyovich, to you that there is no 226 in the hall on the board the same way. We're going to put one of the rights, and I want to see how many national MPs are in the hall. We can't look at any bill, I just want to say it under the transcript that it's a violation of the Constitutional Court's decision. I'm not talking to you for the first time, unfortunately, the answer to this proposal, I didn't hear it, you know, I remember you even looking at it. And I wanted to know whether we would continue to work in such a regime by nullifying the Constitution of Ukraine by nullifying the decision of the Constitutional Court by nullifying the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're just starting to turn our work into a farce, and it's weird, and I think it's wrong. We would very much like to be more sensitive to our obligations for which we receive a salary, all of us get a salary, and those who are in the hall today, and those who are not.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u394	The next amendment is 776, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 777th, Alekseiv. Don't insist. 778th, Iron. Don't insist. 779th, Brainy. Please. Mikisha, please, you're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u395	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 779th, 780th, 783rd and 84th. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u396	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u397	Thank you. What's all this about? These amendments say that if the relevant bill is finally adopted, we insist that it doesn't act as a hindrance, so that it takes effect at least on January 1st, 24th. We understand that local self-government, they have budgets, they are projected, they are planned, they have to be implemented by the end of this year. In the middle of the financial year, it is not possible to collect the funds that local self - government relies on. And that's exactly what we're saying, you can't do that. If you're taking it, at least not since 1st, not during this year, but since 1st January 2024, but some say that since 1st January 2025. Because in general, you realize that little is going to be done, and some articles are not going to be implemented, which are essential for local budgets, including accidents and other essentials. And when we talk about helping the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and when Mr. Yuri is constantly representing, he says that the legislation regulates the relevant rules, only financial assistance is regulated. That is, the local government can grant subsidies to a military unit that, by the way, cannot always be used through internal orders and other normative acts of the Ministry of Defence. But, nevertheless, maybe, financially, but material aid, it is the acquisition of the same machines, the same pickets, the vans, the drones, the anti-drone guns and all the material purchases to the local council balance, and then the transfer to the Armed Forces of Ukraine -- this legislation does not allow, does not allow yet. And we've just applied the law and a separate bill of 9559-d. You can't do that, so please don't manipulate. Financially, it is not possible for local self - government to do so in the form of grants. Moreover, it will not be able to do so, for we are taking the money away. And what we're saying by these regulations is that let's not touch 2023 when it's all written down, all the programs, all the use plans, all the things it should have worked. Moreover, they will report to the voters, to the inhabitants of the respective communities, and to the central authorities, including, before the treasury, to the auditorium, to the account office, and to everyone else. If they can't do it, where will they get the money? All of this needs to be closed, and this directly -- citizens, I'm talking to you -- is going to have a direct impact on your services that you're going to get if you don't have any money.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u398	Let's move on, dear fellows. 781 revisions, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 782, Pavlouk. Don't insist. 789th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 790s, Mokan. Don't insist. 791st, Brainy. Please. 791st, Brainy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u399	789.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u400	I asked. I didn't insist on Petrunjak. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u401	Ruslan Alexiyovich. 789, 790 and 791, and 792, and 793. Then, you know, we can count all the authors who insist, who doesn't insist if we do. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u402	I'm announcing the first author. You're always reacting, I'm looking at you, you're not responding.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u403	So I said, you just said you didn't remember, I told you we could go like this. Let's start with time, please, and give me 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u404	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u405	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I never heard an answer from you. One of these rights, an answer from a committee representative, how the law has the right to be the law of retroactive force. How do you, by setting these standards, for example, by adopting 729, stand here very close, Mr. Arahamaia, by imposing a law of retroactive force? How can that be? This is contrary to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which is contrary to the Constitution. The more you make things worse for our fellow citizens, the more you make things worse. Yuri Mikhailovich, you can turn away, but that doesn't affect the outcome. I'm here, you'll see me and you'll remember me. But you're making things worse for our fellow citizens. You won't be able to guarantee them the services they pay for, including the military, including the police, which we talked about today, including the eminents who pay for PDF where they live, or where they are, if we're talking about military. And when you're back at the central level tomorrow, you're going to start growing again, saying it's not us, it's the local authority, you're already setting it up, you're putting it into the 24-year budget, actually manipulating and changing what the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted for. We didn't vote, the "Smart Politics" team, because we know your approach, as it happens at the Kabmin level: they're turning everything upside down. So our vote, our revisions that we've been putting together, everything is completely ruined. So all those positions are good that were put into the budget for 2024, and you know what I'm saying is true, they're completely playing themselves as they want. The same will happen here. When people don't have light, when there's no water, when there's no sewage, no sewage will work, who do they have to go to? I suggest that I repeat and appeal to representatives of the local government, to those national MPs who do not vote in favour of this disgraceful bill, to make a website, to register with contacts, to telephones, and to the place where the distinguished national MPs vote in order for people to come directly to you. For example, in the Kirovograd region, and to say that, Mr. Cusbitt, we have come to you, please repair the water. Dear colleagues from other regions, please provide us with electricity so that my children don't freeze in my city, so that we do, in my city it's warm. But I don't think you'd want your information to be so public.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u406	Let's move on, dear fellows. Next, 794th. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u407	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 794th, 798th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u408	Tyre, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u409	Yes, there are five rights. Give me three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u410	Please, three minutes. 794, 795, 796, 797, 798, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u411	I'll keep going. Let's wait until Mr. Cousbit gets back, then I'll talk, or we'll have a reporter gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u412	He listens to you carefully. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u413	I don't think I'm back. Let's wait for a colleague and then move on. Give it time from the beginning, please, thank you. Thank you, Yuri Mikhailovich. All right, let's go back. Give me time from the beginning, please. Thank you. Yuri Mikhailovich, returning to the task of headmaster. If you told the people when they chose you, under any strings, including "The Servants of the People," that you would vote in favour of not having the resources to provide schools, gardens, hospitals with heat, electricity, water supply, because you would take the PFO out of the local government, they would hardly vote for you. So you've actually misled your constituents. Yes, we talk a lot about political responsibility, about legal responsibility, in this case political responsibility. And please tell me, are you ready personally, because today you're a reporter, you'll be willing to personally provide everything that the local authorities won't be able to provide when you take away the PDF from them if you take away this PDF? Who will do this in person? Are national MPs ready to do this, or are they not? If so, okay, then we understand, let's write it down at the level of the law, and we'll add it to the mandate of the national deputies. I don't know, the truth is how you do it, but it's your responsibility, both legal and political, and it's all gonna be honest. Because when you take a different amount of power from the local government, as far as I know, you communicate with the local authority that's in the Kirovgrad region, in most cases you take that resource away, for example, in the same military areas that are there, we're not going to count the units now, including the Special Operations Force, whose commander was so disgracefully released literally yesterday, who's going to be responsible for this? Who will provide all the needed population in the Kirovograd region, as well as other areas where national deputies vote for it? I realize that this does not really apply to the right-hand side. I just want people to hear and understand who will be responsible and responsible if the energy and life-sustainment systems don't work. Because it's very easy to press the green one for a bill, and it's much more important to understand that then it's going to come for the people who live in those areas. And in this respect, the Kirovograd area was a little bit happier, and she's not a stranger to me, and I worked there for a long time. And for those areas that are directly closer to the frontline and get serious returns from this PDF, it's just going to be a disaster. And we've heard these examples today, for example, about the same Kharkiv area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u414	Is there a committee position? Would you like to respond? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u415	Dear colleague, see for the entry into force of the law. This law has no reverse action in time. It comes into force from the moment it is signed by the President and published. The only thing in this law is that Minfin will be able to do the math. That's it. This is the position that we wanted to report. And he doesn't have reverse power in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u416	Thank you. 799. Mocan or Brainy. Who? Well, I'm already in the fix. I'm sorry. Mikisha, please. 799.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u417	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 799th, 800th, 802th, 3rd and 5th. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u418	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u419	What's this paper about? The amendment is that if the bill is adopted, its rules will be postponed in time. Delayed not even next year, but further down. You're talking about the revaluation that Minfin will do. And I'll tell you what number they're going to make a list of the corresponding allocations that the military PDF gives to the respective communities: from October 1, 2023. And we know that we have information that the treasury already has these funds for the corresponding amount for each local budget already reserved. So they're not going to be able to use the right amount of money. So they're waiting for the bill to be passed. We say by these regulations, no, it can't be, it can't be. That's actually what we're talking about, what Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov says. That this is actually a reverse action in time. I recall that article 58 of the Constitution, laws and other legal acts have no reverse effect at a time other than when they soften or invalidate a person's responsibility. I highly doubt that the collection of funds in the middle of the fiscal year will help, mitigate, or reduce the position and responsibility of the community’s respective head, according to local deputies who voted in favour of the adoption of the appropriate funds, which will soften and make it easier for the community that now exists, which is planning and counting on these funds. And more than that, I'll tell you what. I'll talk to the commander of the appropriate brigade, who is now holding a 30km section near Bachmut. It receives several hundred million from its community, where they have a permanent location. He tells me that if you, or I'm a representative of the Supreme Council, if you take this money -- the military PDF that comes from his brigade goes to the appropriate community -- and then they give it back as a subsidy, if you take it from them, you take it from me, and I'm counting on it. What's more, I've already made some purchases and I've also planned purchases, and above all, drones, which he says I can't, I can't get from the Ministry of Defense. He says next year it's going to be a disaster. If I've got something else to do this year, something to buy, what's next, I don't know. And it certainly is not a relief or a relief to his work. So it's the right thing for us to do right now that these rules that take both the military FFO and the road fund and other funds are going to go into effect not this year and not the following year, but later. And we've just had a discussion and we've chosen the best algorithm for using it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u420	Thank you. 801s, Rumplestiltskin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u421	801, 803, 804, 806, 807, Ruslan Alexiyovich, give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u422	One second, 803 has already been reported. 804, 806, 807, 808. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u423	My dear colleagues, Yuri Mikhailovich, I respect you, but I am very ashamed and embarrassed that a professional lawyer, a professional financier, a representative of a profile committee is forced to say such things. Now you say, the law has no reverse power, but it has no. And in parallel, the next sentence, you say, "But Minfin will have the authority to take the money out of October 1st." What about October 1, 2023? Let's break them in from October 1, 1992. What difference will that make? Well, let's take it from October 1992, which is also logical, given your logic. Well, he'll have the right Minfin, he'll take it all, and he'll take everything that's been built during this time. Why not? Why since October 1st of this year, not the past? Why 1 October and not 10 years ago? Why? Explain to me if it's not a law of retroactive force. The Constitution expressly prohibits the deterioration of the living conditions of our fellow citizens, you are in violation of the Constitution. You're a national MP who, unfortunately, I'm sure you'll vote for this, you're just violating the Constitution. Because I'm again setting the example of Kharkiv, who I'm often in, who I'm close to, who I'm in pain for. This city is suffering, it's constantly under attack by the enemy, you're taking 3.4 billion in the next year, making their conditions, living conditions, conditions of restoration, conditions of bringing this city to not even life, but survival. This year, a colleague talked about 600 million, you just take them and you take them away. How can I prepare for the hot season? You're centrally preparing to provide security for 21 substations in the state by the end of winter, and they have to prepare their energy system for this winter already, yesterday. They have contracts, they have tenders, and you take the money. Who will provide the heating of the inhabited area? Who will help to rebuild those buildings that have suffered and suffered daily fire? Who? Now, I'm telling you, if we've reached the point where we're at the point where we're at the point where we're at the point where we're at the point where we're at the point where we're at the point where we're at the point where we're at the point where we're at the point where we're at the point where we're at the point where we're at. This is going to be absolutely ridiculous, but it's going to be 100 percent that fits this, absolutely idiotic law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u424	809th, Razumkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u425	Ruslan Alexiyovich, please put the vote to 808. I'd like to see how many colleagues are in the hall, if I may.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u426	Please, 808 amendments to Reasonable. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:05:30]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Please, Honcharenko, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u427	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head, what is our plan of work? It's 10:05, I'll remind you that we have a curfew at midnight starting in town. When are we going to conclude today's session? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u428	Thank you. Let's do this while we're at it, but all rights of national deputies will be respected. Thank you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u429	What about the machine?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u430	Of course, and the apparatus too, the apparatus first, and they know it. Please, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Of course, I mean, if we go to the C.O., we'll work here, Your Honor, and then it'll be over by the time it's done. Yeah. So while we're working. You see, it's important for us to work, dear colleagues. 809th, Umumkov. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich. 22:06,28
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u431	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. 809, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, give me four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u432	By 814, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u433	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u434	Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u435	Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I think people don't care about the rights of national MPs, so to speak, to spit, but to the rights of the Apparatus probably not. There's an offer to let people go home, and we'll work on it, we'll figure it out. Because they don't have protection, they don't have drivers, they don't have drivers, they don't have drivers, they don't have a car, they don't have a car, they don't have a car, they don't have a car, they don't have a car, they drive public transport, so let's think about people sometimes. I understand that there is an unusual trend in the walls of the Supreme Council, but at least in our apparatus. I thank you, colleagues, from those who remain in the hall, and those who are here today, in the workplace, to all the others who work, providing. Look, I'm sure that our television set and, for the most part, the voters think that it's not human. I'm sorry. And what they see in the hall today is what they think. I'm sorry. Personally, I'm sure, you and many others, it's just a shame that we got to the point where people don't consider MPs human. But we have what we have. And we're going to keep doing this, and there's going to be even worse grades. And the apparatus, indeed, is people who have to live by the laws that the Supreme Council adopts, including within the curfew that people have to go home to, given that today is actually the day of the weekend. It's the MPs we don't live by the Labour Code, and everyone else lives, and I'd like to remind you. These deputies live by the Constitution and regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and they live by the Labour Code that is currently in force in our country. So let us respect them for what they do, and they do not for money, but for the result and for the work they do for themselves. Thank you. Back to the right. Dear colleagues, in fact, we can talk for a long time about the law of retroactive force and the approaches that we are seeing today. I didn't hear, unfortunately, the answers about whether or not you're planning on adding an application to return all the money to the local community from the beginning of our independence can also be made. I understand you're short, you're not gonna get that budget out yet, but still. Turning to the question of borrowing, we discussed with you today, Yuri Mikhailovich, on this point, about this, and let's not raise the percentage of possible loans to the local authorities because they will not be able to provide this, maybe they won't be able to secure and repay the loans they will take. Please tell me, does the state have a reserve to guarantee the repayment of the loans that you have just acquired? And we're even just taking 2024, the budget that is, for example, not going to be voted this bill, how are you going to fill the budget in 2024? I am already silent that you have adopted Law 10038 under a very good title: providing for primary security and defence spending. And in fact, you've provided the Kabmina Secretariat, you've provided the BEB, you've provided $1.4 billion, you've secured the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which we do whatever we want, you've already done honey, but you're not doing your direct functions. And that's the result of how money is inefficiently used today in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u436	The next amendment is 815, Gerasimov. I'm on it. 816th, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. I'm on it. 817, the same author. I'm on it. 818th, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. I'm on it. 819th, Fris. Don't insist. 820th, Gerasimov Arthur. I'm on it. 821, Arthur Gerasimov. I'm on it. 822nd, also Arthur Volodymyrovich. I'm on it. Gerasimov. 823rd, the same. 824th, same author. I'm on it. 825th, same author. I'm on it. 826th, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. I'm on it. 827th, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. I'm on it. 828th, Arthur Gerasimov. I'm on it. 829th, Arthur Gerasimov. I'm on it. 830, Arthur Gerasimov. I'm on it. And 831, I didn't. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u437	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, as far as the next line is concerned, I'll raise everyone, I'll put them all to the vote. I will be grateful to my colleagues for their support. And now, attention to specific rights, now we're going to talk about this law again. What do they want the money to do? The money wants to be directed at drones -- okay. We've already talked about this pattern, let's say, we can discuss it, but nevertheless, well, there are some flashes. And for, excuse me, manufacturing ammunition. But there's a very simple question, I think everyone remembers how in the fall of the 22nd year a very defensive Ukrainian industry, Ucroborinprom and the authorities presented as opening a new line of projectiles. They just forgot to say that this line was set up in 2018, and it was opened in 2018, it started working. And the question was, why didn't she work?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u438	Thank you. Next. And here's 831, Gerasimov and his colleagues. Declined by the committee. Please vote. [[22:13:01]] For -6 The decision is not taken. 832th, Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u439	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. And you know, when Ucroborprom was led by the Green Spring Team in the fall of 2022, after a full-scale invasion, he presented this project line as a new one. Well, you know, I was surprised even less than they took credit for other people. It's not news, as they say, we've seen a lot of Greens. But this line did not release missiles from 2019 to 2022. If they couldn't then, do you think Minstrategprom is going to do it now? That's why we've given a lot of rights to this money -- and this is at least 48 billion dollars -- not to the Ministry of Strategic Industries, which we don't believe in right now, but to the Ministry of Defense under clear control for the purchase of ammunition and the purchase of new weapons both abroad and in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u440	832 revisions, Gerasimov. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:14:26]] For-7. The decision is not taken. 833 Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u441	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. And we're still talking about the production of ammunition. You know, we're hearing right now: the Ministry of Strategic Industry, we're about to set up. I don't believe this, because in recent years, one of the companies called "The Fish Bowl," which, among other things, releases ammunition, I won't go into detail like: it's bankrupt, it's not allowed to work, it's got money and its nightmares, starting with the D.B.I. and ending with other law enforcement agencies, and they won't let these munitions go. The reason was that they were inadequacies. Arrested. But, you know, as soon as a full-scale invasion came in, all of these ammunitions got pretty good and sent to the army, they were used, and the fighters were asking for more. And here's the thing. They're going to waste this kind of business. That's why I don't believe they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u442	Yes, 833 amendments to Gerasimov. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:15:57]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 834. Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u443	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. And, you know, there are enterprises, there's a well-established process of manufacturing ammunition, there are professionals -- so no, we have to destroy this enterprise. And to be honest, this is just one of the elements of the chain, as from 2019 to 2022, Ukrainian defence industry was destroyed. And we are not talking about the decision of the Derjaudit Service, which, you remember, has virtually started to bankrupt businesses that are now releasing essential ammunition for the Ukrainian army. Is this story resolved? Oh, no. Is anyone punished for this story when these enterprises, frankly, are supported by the Cabinet of Ministers and supported by Zelenski? Because if he hadn't supported them, he would have canceled them. Enterprises stop, so I don't believe Minstrategprom is taking this money to release ammunition. And I'm going to ask you to do the paperwork for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u444	That's what I'm talking about. 834 Gerasimov repairs. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[22:17:25]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 835. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u445	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Bankruptcy, the government's bankrupting "Kozna na Rybalski". A real enterprise that produces real ammunition, and which, attention, produces catheters. As far as boats are concerned, it's the same story. They are innocuous, battle generals begin to plant in prison, and they begin to attack the enterprise. A full-scale invasion is coming, and in one day, all the boats are getting high and going to the front. And if you know, during the snake operation, a lot of people were rescued because of the Kuzni in Fishing. And where am I going with this? Now you and I have been voting in this room on bills that guarantee the allocation of money for the purchase of boats abroad, while there is a national enterprise that produces it. And now you're talking about Minstrategprom supporting this? I don't believe it. And the paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u446	835 Gerasimov's amendment, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[22:18:56]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. 836th, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Just please, on the right, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u447	Easy, Ruslan Alexiyovich. 836 amendments, it applies, I'm looking at, just moments that don't take PDF out of local authority, pass it into the black hole of the central budget. But see, as far as the local government is concerned and the use of money in general by local authorities, even the situation is more interesting, and today colleagues have talked about it. It turns out that when local authorities, local councils, counted money to support the Ukrainian Armed Forces, are now being attacked by law enforcement for purposeless use of funds. You can imagine, in 2023, local councils counted over 60 billion dollars for these needs, and many of them are now beginning to catch up, pay attention, for the purposeless use of funds. That's what I need.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u448	836 Herasimov’s amendment, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[22:20:23]] For the four of us. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. Arthur Volodymyrovich, look, The Servant of the People is three times more supportive than your fraction of your amendment. Dear colleagues, let's move on. 837. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u449	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. It also applies to leaving this money on local councils, but it does refer to the security and defence sectors. And, you know, you don't have to go too far to get evidence that this machine is working, to adjust -- yes, to change -- you don't have to. So just so you know, according to the Ministry of Economics, on September 1, 2023, the authorities of local self-government bought drones, and this, just because of ProZorro, was more than 1 billion dollars. And I would like to point out that these are quick purchases when it took two, three, four weeks, not a few months, as you suggest in this bill, to switch money to the central level. Please place a check-in.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u450	837 amendments, it's rejected by the committee. I'll take her into account. Please vote. [[22:22:00]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 838.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u451	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. As far as this amendment is concerned, like many others, it refers to the issue of control. And, you know, actually, when you talk to people when you talk to local authorities, they say, listen, but we want everything to be spent on the Armed Forces and on the needs of infrastructure that applies to our defenses. But no one believes the central budget. People really don't believe it. And we see a lot of signs of that. And "European Solidarity" suggested the approach: not to give money directly into this gap, but to give, excuse me, credits to state banks, where, very little will be controlled by government, ministries, the Supreme Council, it will still be controlled by the bank, because the people who issued this loan will respond if it is corruptly stolen and unreturned. This is a real mechanism, and this is what we need to use. That's why this bill has to be sent back to read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u452	838 revisions, Gerasimov. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:23:28]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. 839th, Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u453	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. And, you know, the key point is that when money is taken from the front communities, as I said, for example, Mikolai -- 2 billion 700 million, Kramatorsky -- 600 million dollars will be taken away, that's what the central government is proposing, at least. What does Zelenski’s team offer? Mr. Schmigal's literal phrase: "No community will have a smaller budget than it was in 2021, it will not suffer." And now I'm saying this again because I really want to be heard by representatives of the local communities, recorded this information, and then by the conclusions of the first quarter, the second, the third and the whole year of 2024, we saw whether the Prime Minister lied or not. And I'm asking you to put it on the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u454	839 Gerasimov's repair. The committee's dismissed. I'll bet on it. Please vote. [[22:24:53]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 840. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u455	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. You know, when we talked about Zelensky's promises to the team, about Schmigal's promises, Mr. Prime Minister, he didn't just promise that he wouldn't get hurt, he literally said that the budget resources on the spot (this literal text of his) in 2024 would be 75 billion dollars more than it was in 2021, until a full-scale invasion. So he didn't just say he wasn't going to get hurt, he said 75 billion dollars would be extra. Here, too, I offer to remember this information and to carefully control the neighborhoods and whether this promise will be fulfilled. Something tells me that these 75 billion dollars are promised to be the same as billions of trees, with smartphones for each grandmother. And I'm asking you to put it on the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u456	840 Amendments by Gerasimov and colleagues The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:26:17]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. Arthur Volodymyrovich, everything is twice as much as your faction supports. I don't know why, Arthur Volodymyrovich, you have to do yours with the faction. The "Serial of the People" faction gives twice as much for you as it does for yours. What difference does it make, the fact itself now, the score on the board, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please, 841. Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u457	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Except that you and I said that in principle and, let's say, in terms of common sense, you can't accept this bill as it's now written, and it doesn't really fit the Constitution. It's not the first time Greens team has broken the Constitution in a harsh way. But, nevertheless, before me is the observation of the Chief Legal Authority. So, it's clearly written here that it's suggested that we secure these spending directions, attention, from October 1st, 23rd. Listen, if you're saying that there's no reverse, they say, learn the material part. Here's the text where it's written. And I can find the article where it's written. That's why we can't vote for it either. And I'm asking you to put it on the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u458	841 Gerasimov repairs. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:28:03]] For -6 The decision is not taken. 842nd, Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u459	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Yes, the key and the base. If you vote for it, the money will get to the fighter much later, the money will get much less, the underlying estimates will be more than 30 billion, you'll be able to steal potentially. It's unconstitutional, and it's just you showing everyone in this country that what investments, if at this level you're breaking the law, you're going to be breaking all levels. But there is also a very serious antisocial norm in this bill, and it refers to the fact that this bill does not meet the requirements of the Tax Code, which protects our citizens in the event of loss or injury. I carefully quote this norm during my next speech. Now, I'm asking you to take this amendment into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u460	842 Amendments by Gerasimov and colleagues She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[22:29:24]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. 843 revisions, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u461	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. So this bill now includes a rule that you cancel that the money from the income tax of the individuals who are currently being taken, roughly, from the salaries of the police, the State Fire Department, the civil protection unit. And you know, these guys are now heroically helping people and serving on the front, including, I mean, those areas that are on the front? So it's written in the law that this PDF for these people should be aimed exclusively at paying equivalent and full compensation for the loss of income by this category of citizens in the event of death or injury. By this bill, you're canceling it, and you haven't even looked at it. Well, frankly, you don't have a lot of arguments, why can't you vote for that?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u462	The next amendment is 843, by Gerasimov. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:30:49]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 844. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u463	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. And this, by the way, is about what UBD is, because a lot of that was actually involved. And you know what's interesting? Now we're talking about the social protection of DDSN employees, the police, and here we can talk about the Department of Veterans, because. And the amendment to that applies, by the way. Listen, "European Solidarity" has passed a specific bill on automatic assignment of UBB. Well, listen, why isn't this being considered in Parliament right now? You're looking at whatever: 10 billion in changes to the budget in 2023, you're handing over salaries and bonuses to officials, and UBB's automatic, which offers European Solidarity, you don't want to look at. That's why, at least in this law, what's relevant to U.B.I. is a request for support. Edit to support and place on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u464	844 Gerasim repairs. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:32:16]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 845. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u465	Thank you. I'd like to continue with the Department of Veterans. You know, that number of complaints, and the number of complaints that we hear from the military today, from the veterans, from those who have been seriously injured in the war, with regard to the Department of Veterans, it's going to go bad. And I'm very sorry that the opposition has long been demanding that the Supreme Council be recognized as a minister in veteran affairs and asked straight questions about what's going on. Why is it not constantly present in the Supreme Council and does not require that MPs constantly adopt laws to support veterans and our military? Why is this, in principle, a failure to provide for veterans? Yes, round tables are held, but they prove once again that there are no politicians. That's why, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support this. As for the Department of Veterans, the head of this ministry was asked to attend the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u466	845 revision of Gerasimov's authorship. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:33:42]] For -6 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 846. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u467	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Look, you told me that during my performance, I was there counting some of the National Majority Deputies from the People's Servants, but I'm just saying that I'm just saying that, in principle, it wasn't necessary there, and I really wanted to call each of them. These changes are again related to what is unnecessary and wrong to take money from the local level to the central level. And the proof of that is, we've mentioned it many times today, a report from the Court of Auditors on the purchases of the Ministry of Defense. So I just want to quote the Ukrainians right now, it's open, you can find it on the Court of Auditors' website, about how the Ministry of Defense purchased certain products compared to other services or types of troops. Thus, the Ministry of Defense purchased eggs, such as 9 bracelets, 546 BPOs, 5,27 border guards, and 5.23 National Guards.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u468	846 Gerasim’s amendment rejected by the committee Please vote. [[22:35:10]] For -6 The decision is not taken. By factions, please show me. Arthur Volodymyrovich has supported you four times as much as your faction. Dear colleagues, 847 amendments. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u469	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. All right, I'm done. And the head of intelligence buys the eggs at 5:30. So this line shows that only on the eggs did the Ministry of Defense boil twice. Let's go to another: sugar. And here's the interesting thing is, while the sugar was buying intelligence, the Chief Intelligence Directorate was buying 31 bracelets, the National Guard was 34, the border guards were 30 bracelets, the Ministry of Defense, the young guys were 46 bracelets, you don't think that's a little bit of an overpriced. Let's move on: bread and flour. Here, we've talked about this before, the excess on one billet was 8 bracelets. That's why it's just a few examples, I'm going to move on, you can't buy it from a local level where there's a much higher level of control, and a real, and a moral, black hole in the central budget. That's why I'm asking you to make an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u470	847 Amendments by Gerasimov and colleagues The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:36:53]] For-7. Let's see the factions. Arthur Volodymyrovich, five times. You need to change the faction, the second faction supports you more than your own, listen! Please, come on. 848. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u471	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Let's move on. And I'm not just saying it under the transcript, because, you know, maybe the Ukrainians don't all read this Talmud -- the Accountant report, but "European Solidarity," you know, it's carefully prepared for every session. We're going to go to the last line and we're going to read all the bills to find your corruption schemes. So let's go over and let's get you Ukrainians to hear: the onion is a little bit of a turn-off -- and here's the interesting thing -- while the border guards are buying 39 bracelets here, the Ministry of Defense is 42. Here we have, let's say, a score of 27. It's not too much, but it's still too much. Let's move on. Here are some interesting figures: the beet (important) boils, so the Ministry of Defense bought 20 bracelets, while everyone else bought 10, 12 bracelets, and no one surpassed that plank.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u472	848 revision of Gerasimov's authorship. Please vote. [[22:38:30]] For -6 The decision is not taken. 849th. Arthur Volodymyrovich, just please correct, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u473	Let's move on. No, let's move on, and this is an important moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u474	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u475	As amended by 849, I'll explain. It refers to becoming a participant in combat. But if you want a participant in combat to be fed, you have to do as the Head of the Supreme Council does so as not to steal money on this diet. Now, attention: on the cabbage that all border guards buy 19 bracelets, the Ministry of Defense is 25. It's a serious story. Potatoes -- that's what all Ukrainians will understand -- means, while BSS buys 7.76, Intelligence Administration 8.16, Defence Ministry -- 17 $ 70, twice for potatoes. Don't you see anything in your eyes? While the volume is much higher. That's what these amendments are about right now and what I'm going to read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u476	Corrections about other things, fixes a little bit more. So I'd like to ask you, if you don't mind, before the amendments. 849 revisions, Gerasimov. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:40:00]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. 850, Gerasimov. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u477	Ruslan Alexiyovich, these amendments really apply, because you don't make a UBD bill, they apply to the specificity of becoming a wartime participant during a state of war. That's what they're about. But I can't go beyond what the Central Council is now doing with these participants in combat. And to be honest, we talked about ordinary potatoes, and there's still early potatoes, which is such an interesting moment. But while the border guards are buying it for the 18th anniversary of 39 copies (and this is an official document, sorry, I'm quoting it here), the Ministry of Defense for participants in combat, including buying this potato early 28.50. So you know, what do I have to say to these numbers to every Ukrainian who sends the last bracelets now to help the Armed Forces, so what do they want me to say? And we're talking about that right now so people can hear about it. And I'm going to keep saying this right now because this is about the participants in the fighting, which is what this amendment is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u478	Arthur Volodymyrovich, you know, we'd be happy to listen to other laws if we didn't sit in this number of amendments that are repeated, that no one would report on. It's just a waste of time on the Supreme Council, but it's your right, and so we're listening to the account report that we can jump and read, and we've all done it. So 850 amendments to Gerasimov. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[22:41:45]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Please, 851st. Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u479	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I can tell you that if you think we're wasting time when the opposition requires you to solve the U.B.D. status issue, with its automatic receipt, well, this is an interesting report from the Chief of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u480	Well, that's not true, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u481	But I was interested in another, Ruslan Alexiyovich. You said that you all, the Presidium, downloaded this report. I know him almost completely. If you did, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'll ask you a question. What was the price of buying a Greek crop, for example, from the Directorate General of Intelligence compared to the Ministry of Defense? Well, you jumped, tell me, please. I will be very grateful for that answer now. If you can't find it, I'll let you know in my next speech. But you said you jumped. So I would appreciate it if you had this report under your hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u482	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. I've got a bill table on my hands. And now we have it under consideration, not the report of the Court of Auditors. You must have made a little mistake. And I would very much ask that we walk on the table, not on what kind of paper you have under your hands. Because that's how you're going to have fairy tales or fairy tales -- and we're going to have to listen to them. And I'd like to have a substantive conversation, a serious discussion on this issue. But I'm putting 851 amendments, which unfortunately we haven't been able to hear what it's about, but the next thing we know the value of Greek porridge. Please, I'm putting to the vote 851 of Gerasimov's amendment. Please vote. [[22:43:40]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Arthur Volodymyrovich, looking forward to a Greek 853 amendment, how much will it cost?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u483	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. So, you know what's interesting, in answer to your question, the Chief Intelligence Authority, the guys, they buy a Greek crop of 50 bucks 57 copies. The Ministry of Defense -- attention, as they say, drumming, is 87 bracelets 60 copies. Well, they don't steal at all on the central level. And the amendment, Ruslan Alexiyovich, refers to exactly how UBB is allocated. And we want those who, in connection with injury, injury, injury, disability related to the carrying out of combat tasks directly in areas of war action and being hospitalized in health care facilities, well, and so on, and so on, yes, this story is automatically attributed to what this is about. And if you think it's fairy tales or fairy tales -- a U.B.I. assignment, it's just for conversation here in the Supreme Council. And we're going to raise this in every bill until it's voted by the Supreme Council. And the amendment, please, please put it on the table, and I suggest that we all support it, because it's about the UBD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u484	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. I'd love to make 853 amendments, it's not what you said at all. But a careful reader could read it, a considerate national MP. So I'm putting 853 of Gerasimov's amendment to the vote. Please vote. [[22:45:16]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Arthur Volodymyrovich, 854 repairs. We want to know what you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u485	853rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u486	No, we just voted 53rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u487	No, we voted 52nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u488	No, Arthur Volodymyrovich, you see, you're confused. And I, you see, again, I'm very careful with your regulations, as opposed to you, but you keep an eye on the price of Greek procurement, it's also very important. Please, 854.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u489	Set time from the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u490	Please, from the beginning. 854th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u491	Look, we're going to continue and I want the transcript of this meeting of the Supreme Council, and it stays forever, and we know it with you, it really kept these prices, even if this report is destroyed, I don't know how this authority released it into open access. So here are the pasta products, and now a lot of Ukrainians are buying them, and you know, interestingly, the GUR buys 27 bracelets, the National Guard buys 30, which is interesting, and we have border guards buying 46 copies of 20 bracelets, and this is the Ministry of Defense, 41 bracelets, 70 copies. Twice the price, here you go. And this is, excuse me, not a fairy tale, this is the official document of the House of Accounts, Ruslan Alexiyovich, which is (pay attention!), if anyone does not know, the body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I really support those colleagues who made proposals today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u492	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. It's a shame we couldn't hear your 854 and complete the bill with part four of the corresponding contents. But I have to put her to a vote. 854 revisions. People's deputies, please vote. Of course, I would like to hear its contents. [[22:47:18]] For the The decision is not taken. Arthur Volodymyrovich, 855 amendment, where you also propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u493	Ruslan Alexiyovich, and now it's time to start, because a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u494	Please give me three more seconds first.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u495	Thank you. Now, just so you don't say that these amendments aren't about the U.B.I., I'm literally going to read you this amendment. The draft after paragraph 1 is supplemented by a new paragraph of the following content: “The basis for the status of a participant in hostilities by persons listed in the first part of this article during the war is the military order of the commander of the respective military formation to send such a person to the area of conduct of military (military) actions for the direct execution of the military tasks related to the national security and defence measures, the interception and deterrence of the armed aggression of the Russian Federation”. Ruslan Alexiyovich, all the amendments before that clearly apply. And I'll tell you, we're actually going to be filing U.B.D.s for all the bills until this is voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We think it's UBD, the automatic status is one of the things that we have to decide as soon as possible. As for the amendment, please put it on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u496	Yes, of course. 855 amendments that apply to the UBB status, but of course they'd better be in a separate law, a special one that we can't possibly get to, which we can't get to, because we're sitting in these amendments to the second law. But the holy right of democracy, Arthur Volodymyrovich, 855 your amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:49:08]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Arthur Volodymyrovich, again, you see. 856 repairs. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please. Where are you? Oh, you're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u497	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. 856 amendments to the same subject matter will be made, and I will be sure to ask it to be taken into account. But I'm going to keep going from this table, I'm just going to finish, but here are some very bright things. The sunflower oil. So, at a time when the border guards are buying this sunflower oil for 58 bucks 71 pcs, Mr. Reznikov's noble Ministry of Defense bought it by 89. And, notice, I'm paying attention to what happened after the Ministry of Defense lowered the purchase price after the 17-year egg scandal. So the border guards don't need anything, they buy honestly, they buy honestly, as it is. The Ministry of Defense is almost twice as high, attention, after the scandal. That's what I'm saying, if the really Supreme Council wants to protect the participants in the fighting, our warriors on the fore, don't let them steal at the central level.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u498	856 Gerasim repairs. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:50:42]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. 857 on the addition of paragraph 1 to a new paragraph. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u499	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. And here I'd like to move on to another point. So, you know, I just gave you these prices of Mr. Resnick's Ministry of Defense, I said, a representative of the Greens team to let the Ukrainians see that even after the 17th anniversary scandal, they "cut" prices, and now they're making noise, discussing these prices after the fall. But what are they telling us? We're taking away the local PDF because there's no money. Ruslan Alexiyovich, then why did they leave the money to finance the oligarchic channels? And as far as I can remember, "1+1" still belongs to Mr. Medvedchuk. And they left the money on the show, and they didn't change it, even for 2024. Please tell me, if it's all about security and defense, what happened to the series, and what happened to the marathon that goes on, if I'm not mistaken, 2 billion dollars? That's why the money is, you just have to spend it properly. And I'm going to ask you to do the paperwork for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u500	Thank you. 857 revisions, I'll put in for confirmation. But, Arthur Volodymyrovich, with regard to cooperation with Medvedchuk, it's definitely not for me. I think you'll be more enlightened by colleagues who are somewhere. They're not here right now, but they're definitely sitting in your corner somewhere. 857 Gerasim repairs. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[22:52:26]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. 858th. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u501	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. You know, there's been a lot of talk today about the presence in the Chamber of Deputies, but there's one aspect that I want to pay attention to. If there were journalists present at the sitting -- and I still don't understand why you wouldn't let them in, you're probably afraid -- I think a lot more people's deputies were present right now because you don't want control. And that's how I'm going to act now, when we're sitting in the Supreme Council, there's no one, there's no journalists allowed, you're saying, but it's okay, pass on to the central level, they won't steal. So if the Supreme Council, sorry, is afraid of controlling and afraid to launch journalists, then what we're talking about is the Cabinet of Ministers, where you don't dig, you can just, frankly, read the accounts. So where am I leading? So, Ruslan Alexiyovich, let's still make a decision about the return of journalists to the Supreme Council, not to be afraid of them, and Israel has shown us this example. And I'd like you to set up the paperwork.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u502	The 858 amendment concerning the addition of the bill by a new paragraph of the new substance was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[22:53:59]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 859th. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u503	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. And, you know, here we go to another interesting page that concerns the provision of our military personnel, those who sit in the trench, are volunteers. You don't have to expect, but I've always had a question, tens, hundreds of billions of dollars going to the Ministry of Defense, but, nevertheless, there's still a huge amount of security that volunteers carry. And how do people explain that? Well, come on, this is, of course, the right story, we all support volunteers. But still, maybe let's all do it together so that the Ministry of Defense and the central authorities will spend their money and not steal them. And now we're going back to the Ministry of Strategic Industry. At the very least, before the money was allocated, we had to invite Ucroborprom leaders, invite the minister and get a report on the use of money in previous periods: 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u504	859 Gerasim repairs. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:55:29]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. 860s, Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u505	Thank you. So, you know, when you're talking about volunteering, I can't help but say that, for example, just the Dusty Foundation, Roshenka and the Community Affairs, since February 24, it's only been spent helping the Armed Forces over 3 billion 600 million dollars, where most of the money is the money of the Dusty family. Now I'm talking about why, because in many places you won't read about it, the marathon won't show it. And what's very interesting is the price of purchases and unit purchases. Because the price of purchases, you remember all of these scandals, it's often much smaller than what's purchased by the central executive authorities, and what, for example, we want to offer Minstrategprom right now. So before you give them money, maybe you can put out some criteria, Ruslan Alexiyovich, before you adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u506	I don't know how I can set the criteria for your fund. Ah, Ministrateg. You started out this way, with a commercial like this, and you're talking about putting criteria on them. Please 860 amendments to Gerasimov's authorship. Please vote. [[22:57:07]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. 861. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u507	Ruslan Alexiyovich, these amendments also apply to the design of the UBB and the elements of this design. As I said before, we will put these amendments everywhere until they are voted by the Supreme Council. It's important, and I honestly don't understand why the budget committee turned it down. And as you go back to volunteering, listen, I'm saying why I'm talking about this right now, so you can understand the scales. Come on, more than 100 picks have been handed over to the U.S.S.A. with the powder fund, "Sildy," "Sportanas," "Poseidons." I can count a lot here, but the other question is the purchase price. And, you know, I'm very curious, now Poseidon is going to buy the Ministry of Defense, and they're going to buy other state organizations. I'll keep a close eye on the purchase prices and then carefully compare them to how they're being purchased for their own money by Peter Poroshenko. That's what I'm talking about. And this law cannot be voted on. Add a new one to the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-04-m0.u508	861 Gerasimov's repair. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:58:32]] For the The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, thank you all for working in the plenary. I'm going to call it a break. You will be informed of the date and place of the plenary meeting in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We continue to work to win. And the glory of Ukraine!
