ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u1	Dear colleagues! Glory to Ukraine! In accordance with the decree we accept, "On certain matters of organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in terms of the state of war" today, we continue our plenary session. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its passage, the beginning and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to abide by the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. In the event of air anxiety, there will be a pause in the plenary session, and we all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of us. Ladies and gentlemen, according to parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] It's the 21st month of full-scale Russian aggression against Ukraine. Our soldiers hold fast their defenses, carry out constant attacks on enemy positions, and destroy military equipment, especially ships, and the personal composition of the racists. Thanks. [[Applause]] Let us welcome the success of our warriors today. Thanks to our supporters and defenders, we continue to make a targeted movement towards integration into the European Union and NATO. Let us pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of all those who gave their lives for Ukraine and its future, as well as to all innocent citizens who died at the hands of Russian invaders. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, you've been given a list of the order of the day. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. We have a decision to call it off. I remind you that, in accordance with part nine of article 48 of the Rules, their discussion is always conducted under a reduced procedure, so we do not need to make these procedural decisions. So let's talk about 10037-P. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 8.11.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the draft Ukrainian Law amending Chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the promotion of the defence of the State and the development of the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex (registration number 10037 from 12.09.2023). The author of the decree, Goncharenko Aleksyyyovich, is invited to report. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u2	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we're with you this week instead of accepting the questions that society expects of us, considering the demobilization and substitution of our heroes, considering the question and finally getting the "thirty" back to all our military, considering increasing child payments instead of doing one thing with you, well, you did: you robbed local communities, and you took the last. And this is certainly a testimony to what are the real priorities. The real priorities are that everything that could be broken down on the mountain is already done, let's take down the bottom, and then we'll take down the ladder from there. Friends, we suggested, you say, this is for the military, we offered a lot of lines that predict that all the costs, all the costs of local self-government should not go to the streets, not to the parks, the stadiums, but to the military. But all of these adjustments were rejected because it was just an excuse, and because I want to remind you that it was the central authority that gave an example when it started spending money on drums, on TV shows, and it kept doing that. In yesterday's budget, there's a show again, there's a movie again, there's a force again, there's anything there, there's anything there, instead of what's really needed. So, of course, you know, I'm used to fighting to the end. Obviously, we're in the hall, so I take it, we don't even have 226, and it's going to be interesting to look very much at the vote. The MPs are tired again, and a large portion of them are no longer present today. But we always have to fight to the end. That's why we block the infamous 10037 decision. I call on you all, maybe you'll come to your senses right now, want to believe in wonder, and we'll cancel this determination. Oh, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u3	Thank you. Please write two in a row, two in a row, from factions and groups. Please, Servant of the People, Kozir. Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u4	Honorable Presidium, respected colleagues, which moved me to this rostrum today and to say a few words. Let me explain. In my parliamentary life, I was a professor at the faculty of constitutional law and was teaching students a lecture on parliamentaryism. And I've read to them what parliamentaryism is: it's a level of democracy primarily in the state, it's a level of freedom, and it's an opportunity for different political forces to express their views. But I've been focusing on what I want to say to you right now. Parliamentarianism is primarily a responsibility, a responsibility for what you say, a responsibility for content and how and to whom you address it. Why am I talking about this? I listened intently to the denial of Law 10037 for a number of reasons. Many plenary sessions. Opponents of this law appealed that the Supreme Council, by adopting this law, was in violation of the Constitution. Yeah, well, I want to say that it's the opponents of this law who are grossly violating the Constitution and calling for a violation of the Constitution. What is it, Your Honor? Article 7 of the Ukrainian Constitution states that local self - government is recognized and guaranteed in Ukraine. Article 142 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that local self - government is based on the income of local budgets. But article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine says that the laws of Ukraine alone determine the budgetary system, the tax system. If we call for laws to force local self-government authorities to spend the VAT they received today on the needs of the military, this is a direct intervention in guaranteeing local self-government, and these are calls for gross violation of the Constitution. Therefore, there is no way to block a decision, a decision aimed at maintaining our security and defense. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u5	Heroim Slava! European Solidarity, please. Princess? Who's it gonna be, Blue? Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u6	Friends I've heard the fantastic words: responsibility. They say you have to take responsibility for what you say. Well, first of all, my dear colleague, about responsibility. And where is the responsibility for saying that when the President said that the '30s' would be until the end of the war? The war is not over, the '30s' is over. Where is the responsibility? Where's a billion trees? Where is much else that was promised and said, where is all this? Where is corruption compared to treason, and much has been said? Because we've got this story, it's saying something like the water is flowing, and then it's all forgotten. Where is the responsibility for this? And I just heard a fantastic thesis. It turns out to force and limit local self-government costs to the army, and it's a violation of the law and the Constitution, and it doesn't take all the money away from them. I mean, you see, that's how logic is. I mean, you can't tell them that you can't go to the stadium, no, you can't go to the stadium, but you have to go to the army, it's a violation. And taking everything upstairs to Kiev and from here to the stadiums and the sidewalks, and on the show, that's normal. Guys, it's totally just hypocritical, look, this is what every person sees, understands. So I urge you, now there will be a vote, to show yourself. When this winter comes, and God forbid, as they now fear, they say, the most terrible winter will be, and God forbid, so it will be, who will warm people today, who will deal with people's issues, it will all be in communities. And if you take that away from the community today, you have to take responsibility for it tomorrow, that's the word "responsibility," then it will be. So I urge you to come to your senses and listen to what you have to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u7	Thank you. Fatherland, please, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u8	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, we hear today from the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the authorities of local self-government should not fund the Armed Forces of Ukraine. That local self - government authorities should not perform certain tasks in the HKG system or elsewhere. That local governments should not receive a basic tax on the income of individuals, which in principle creates the very philosophy of decentralization. If you'll excuse me, please explain to me where the military units have been assisted by the local authorities since the first day of the full-scale invasion? I'll remind you, it's 30 billion direct aid to military units and 50 billion direct aid to buy drones, cars, technicians and quadricopters, etc. Where do you get all this stuff? You'll say it's in the state budget. And you're sure that tomorrow, given the level of corruption at the central level, they're going to be able to get all these things? The removal of military PFCs, first of all, will result in local budgets not getting enough and will not be able to finance education, medicine in low-level management chains, nor will they be able to, essentially, help those military units that are at a permanent location in those communities where they are located. That means the military, the soldier, will have to go for his money to buy that shock absorber if he's got an exit in his car tomorrow, and he needs to do it. This has to change the thermostat, the different fluid, the oil and everything else at its expense, the cost of that soldier's salary, because it's impossible to take it in the central budget. Therefore, fellow believers, our decision is not good.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u9	Please, "Resurrection of Ukraine", Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, the "Deliverance of Ukraine" group supported Law 10037 for reasons that we know very well what the abuses are in place with these funds. If they weren't there, we've spoken about it more than once, and I think it's still today that our colleagues who are actually from Donetsk are seeing in places where these costs are happening. We accepted the budget yesterday. You know very well what holes there are in this budget, and you know very well, and we want all of us, and you want these holes to be filled with money, and we can do it to our government whether we can do it or not -- God forbid it works. Yesterday, colleagues who today put out these blocking orders said, and not once did they say that at this time of war, the budget should be, first, the army, security, and secondly, social. Today, they say quite different. I understand that if they were to talk about what state-owned enterprises that have these supervisory boards today and where they write their budgets and salaries for a million dollars a month, if they said, let's take either the army or the socialist or the reconstruction, we'd understand. And the fact that today, during the war, there's going to be big money theft, of course we can't go along with it, and we're not going to support these blocking positions. And my colleagues today, I think, will come forward and tell you more about the abuses in places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u11	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill under registration number 10037-P as a whole, a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 8.11.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law amending Chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the protection of the State and the development of the defence and industrial complex (registration No. 10037 of 12.09.2023). Please vote. [[10:23:10]] For-42 The decision is not taken. The next item on the agenda is the 10037-P1 Registration Order. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 08.11.2023 on the adoption of a second reading and the draft Ukrainian Law amending Chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the promotion of the defence of the State and the development of the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex (registration No. 10037 of 12.09.2023). The authors are the authors of the report by Mokan Vasil Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u12	Dear National Deputies! During several weeks of active discussions on this legislative initiative, there were dozens, if not hundreds of arguments, why this law could not be adopted. Instead of re-second reading to seek compromise, looking for a reasonable balanced approach to the reallocation of available funds, they went through the complete relaxation of local communities' funds, full centralization, and the way that there is no guarantee today that these costs can be spent effectively. In fact, the argument is that we are creating a very bad precedent when the law has reverse action at the time of the violation of article 58 of the Constitution. We are setting a precedent when the principle of fiscal decentralization is violated, by the way, a reform that our Western partners highly appreciated, which was a step towards the integration of Ukraine, especially that our Ukrainian army, our Ukrainian defence, should have won from these discussions, and again, there is no guarantee of this after this legislative initiative has been adopted. I realize that given the quorum in the hall, the chances of a blockage decision are not enough. So what I'm saying is that once the funds are so poorly centralized, our shared task is not just to keep track of the maximum target use of these funds, but also to monitor what will be the result, what specific military personnel will be given specific weapons, and to control this process by 100 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u13	Please write two in a row, two in a row, from factions and groups. From the procedure? Dmitri Alexandrovich Razumkov is from the procedure while the recording is going.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u14	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Tell me, please, and now we'll always have it, so I understand that we will, by precedent, discuss each decision as a separate one? So if we have 100 solutions, we're going to discuss them separately? It's just me, for me. I've already spoken to Mr. Motovilovac, and he supports this initiative. Thank you for such a constructive approach. I think the colleagues in the Council are thanking you for that, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u15	Dmitri Alexanderovich, until the Conciliation Council or Hall takes another procedure, well, we'll be in this procedure. Six decrees, I don't think that's much. Everyone wants to speak, speak up. Well, let's talk. Schwaczka, "Slut of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u16	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sergio Stépi.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u17	Sergey Stepa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u18	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. This bill gives both us and society a choice. It's a choice between mud and asphalt and the defense of our state. It's a choice between the ability to continue to make money on the well-being, on the hearth, on the roads, on the repairs of the facades and on the lives of our defenders, which we're going to keep thanks to the extra BPLA, the extra shells, the missiles, and so on. I hope, frankly, that we will no longer see such a cynical attitude towards the army, to the budget, when officials during the full-scale invasion of the Russian Federation repair gravel statues for 470,000 dollars. Surrender and do your best to win this war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u19	"Paternality" would be anyone? Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u20	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Mr. Chairman, the presidency, the honourable colleagues, it is unfortunate that there is no "hour of questions to the government" happening today, and yesterday the Prime Minister was not at the approval of the main document that the state will be living by next year, but let it be on his conscience. Why was it so important today to hold this "hour of questions to the government"? We had to consider the important issue of veteran politics and whether there was a veteran policy that was to be presented by the government primarily by the Committee of Social Policy, the protection of the rights of veterans and here. And in fact, veteran organizations now demand that there be a person in the government at the level of the vice - prime minister who will coordinate the activities of all ministries and authorities of the local executive branch with regard to the implementation of veteran politics. Because of this, it is another reprimand for a government that ignores the legislative body, respected colleagues. The Minister for Veterans was supposed to report -- they didn't come. I would like to thank all the deputies who have joined the interfractional unification of volunteering, respected colleagues. Veterans are already a social class that protects our state and is at the aid of our military. And I wanted to ask the government how the decree was born, which, as of December 1, blocks volunteerism. But we've approved a bill with you that, I'm sure, will become a law that repeals this decree and will really create conditions for volunteering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the aggressor country is not allowing us to divert money to the army, so the air alarm is going to have to go to the right place. Shall we vote? Okay, okay. This is a constructive decision. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 8.11.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law amending Chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the protection of the State and the development of the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex (registration No. 10037 of 12.09). This Regulation Order number 10037-P1. Please vote. [[10:31:21]] For-49 The decision is not taken. It's a non-adopted decision. Are we voting on everyone else? There are authors, they're against it. Smart-ass procedure, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u22	Alexander Sergiyovich, there's a proposal, it's all just as long as they fly, the authors to speak out, and vote on the verdict.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u23	Let's take it from the authors then and we'll vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's wrong? And after your full discussion? Please, 10037-P2 Smarts.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I realize it's very scary, but listen, these are important things. You know, I'm not going to talk a lot about the decision here, you're not going to vote for it, but please tell me you're not sick of the fact that the authorities don't refer to the generals as garbage, but to you? Why I say power because there is no authority in this room. The prime minister and the government did not come to vote on your budget yesterday. No minister has appeared to you today for an hour of questions to the government. None. And you're going to tell me that there's power here? There's a majority, but there's no power in this room. It's a disgrace! Shame on all those who support it, all those who tolerate it. Are they tired, or are Friday no longer a working day for the government? Where are they all? And you're going to keep pushing green and voting for everything they say for? Yeah? Yeah, I see what you'll be, yeah, yeah. Yes, you smile, people come to you in the winter and ask where their heat is, where their water is, where their sewage is, and then you'll walk and smile. I see you don't use anything, sometimes even your brains. Dear colleagues, I have a big request for you. Please let us work so that you don't feel ashamed for this government, for these ministers, for what you accept, for what you vote for. Please work as the Council should, and respect those who sent you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u25	Thank you. Can we get to the 10037-P2 vote? Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 08.11.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law amending Chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the protection of the State and the development of the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex (registration No. 10037 of 12.09). 2023) Please vote 10037-P2. [[10:34:51]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. 10037-P3. Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich, please. This is the same principle: we continue to vote from the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u26	Thank you, colleagues. You know, money really saves health. Because as soon as we started talking about 26 billion in the 23rd year and over 100 billion in the 24th year, everyone immediately became clear, everyone saw the pavement, the asphalt. Why didn't we see it, it's almost two years before? I'll explain to you why you didn't see it. Because 590 Order of the Cabinet of Ministers says that there is a clear list of exactly how the treasury service costs are to be used. And the first is the army, the second is the socialist, and the third is everything else. So why was that used beautifully in the 22nd year, in the determination of no change, and in the 23rd year, it doesn't work? Because maybe there was a team back then to do that, so that about two dozen thieves would take advantage of it, then light it up, show it, and then take the money out of the 1469 communities that exist all over Ukraine. Very good, isn't it? Colleagues, what are you worried about? You voted in the budget yesterday that next year all of this would be taken away from the military. So maybe at least let's leave it at 23rd, and the communities will finally transfer the funds that they promised the military units, because there are a lot of agreements with many, and hundreds, not tens, and hundreds of millions should be returned. And finally. We have made this decision in violation of the Constitution and the Rules. It is stated that when laws are broken, the decision should be annulled. Then let's cancel this decision, go back to re-reading and properly listen to all the revisions, and make the right decision. I've got everything. Thank you. Colleagues, back up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u27	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose a motion for a vote to be adopted as a whole with registration number 10037-P3 on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 08.11.2023 on the adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the draft Ukrainian Law amending Chapter VI of the Ukrainian budget code on ensuring the protection of the State and the development of the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex (registration number 10037 of 12.09). This Regulation Please vote. [[10:37:49]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. And 10037-P4, and 10037-P5, we have the following procedure: authors and then one person from Eurosolidarity, and we vote. I ask the authors of Arthur Volodymyrovich Herasimov. 10037-P4: draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 08.11.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on the amendment to Chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the protection of the State and the development of the defence and industrial complex of Ukraine (10037 of 12.09.2023). Please, Gerasimov, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Ukrainians, this law could not be voted for, so I ask everyone to support this decision for two key reasons. First. The money really won't go to the army -- it's real, and it's going to reduce the speed of getting help from the army, which now exists through local communities. And the second. There is no solution to the issues of frontal and frontal communities that are on the front line. You took the PDF from them, and frankly, now people are there, I don't know how they're going to survive the winter. But in addition, what I'd like to say is that you know, eight numbers went to the first decision to open up Ukraine's European Union victories. And the European Commission's report was part of an evaluation of Parliament's work. And you know that the European Commission has acknowledged that, despite the extraordinary conditions of Russian aggression, the Supreme Council of Ukraine continues to systematically carry out legislative functions, particularly in the area of security, defence and integration into the EU. This is, frankly, a positive assessment for all of us with you. But at the same time, the report contains a series of identified problems and suggestions for further action that the Ukrainian side and the authorities should pay attention to. In particular, limited transparency in Parliament's work, including the lack of direct broadcasts on the Council channel, the lack of journalists' access to plenary meetings, the lack of information on parliamentary and parliamentary questions on Parliament's website. The other one. This is a need to strengthen legislative oversight of the work of executive power, including monitoring and law enforcement. We already have Europe directly telling us where your government is, why you don't control it. In addition, attention is drawn to the continuation of the preparation of the updated Ukrainian Law on Political Parties, taking into account the joint findings of the BDIPL and the recommendations of the Venice Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u29	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. And which one of you, the second man of this decree? Pauline. Please, Rostislav Pavlovenko. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I will continue what Arthur Gerasimov said. You know, we have a month, even less, to meet very clear, very specific and very clear requirements so that in December we don't look for a reason why the European Council suddenly doesn't support, God forbid, the European Commission's decision to start negotiations with Ukraine. Arthur was talking about parliamentary issues, but there are other very important things that we all need to consider. And isn't the first thing about local communities, and it's about what the state of decentralization is now considered to be one of the strongest positions in Ukraine. If this law, which was voted yesterday, becomes effective, it will cease to be our advantage, we will arm our opponents and we will hear and read very much that in an unconstitutional illegal way, money is taken from the community. And the last thing I'd like to point out, too. We must not forget that the question of freedom of speech is absolutely essential for our European integration. The report, there are 152 pages, but everyone in this room has to read this report, and it's clear that shutting down independent channels is a violation of European integration. There are things that have to be done, channels have to be turned on, the Parliament has to be restored, and local communities have to be respected, whether you want to or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u31	Let's go to the vote. Thank you. I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt, as a whole, the draft Decree of 10037-P4 on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 08.11.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on the Amendment to Chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the Protection of the State and the Development of the Defence and Industrial Complex of Ukraine (No.10037 of 12.09.2023). Please vote. [[10:43:01]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. And the Final Order 10037-P5. From the authors of Sinyuk, I understand. Yes, Oleg Mikhailovich? Princey. Please, Mikola Leonidovich Knyazicki, draft Decision calling off the decision of the Supreme Council. Now, if you'll excuse me, please, from the authors. The annulment of the Supreme Council decision of 08.11.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Law. on the Act on Amendments to Chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code on State Defence Support and Development of the Ukrainian Defence and Industrial Complex (No. 10037 of 12.09.2023). Please, Oleg Mikhailovich, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, why do we need to review the decision of the Supreme Council and put an end to it? It's very simple. I would like to ask those who voted in favour of the decision of the Supreme Council during the second reading. What happened two weeks later, and who put what pressure on you, what two weeks later did you change your mind? So why do we have to cancel this decision of the Supreme Council? Because we're actually taking money from local budgets from the Ukrainian military and what the military calls waste materials, drones, cars won't come to them. Why is it an illusion and a lie that the military are getting the money for their bills? Because first of all, if this happens, it's going to happen quickly, and second of all, the military is going to cut into bureaucratic obstacles and they're not going to be able to buy the funds. It seems to me that if anyone thinks that the corruption of stadiums and drones will be overcome, it is an illusion. In order to do so, it would be sufficient to take a decision by the Treasury to stop the corresponding payments. But perhaps the education that has been received at the Raccoon universities is too small to make such simple decisions. But corruption will be gained in the higher echelons of power. So, dear colleagues, I propose to vote in favour of this decision, to stop the decision, and then we get drones, not stadiums. And then our military will be able to get the funds from the territorial communities, quickly, cheaply, and what they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u33	And from. in the discussion of Nikola Leonidovich Knieżicki, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! I don't know if you've been to Lviv and if you've visited the center of Unbroken, it's a very fantastic rehabilitation center for military personnel. I was in Kharkiv, in Kharkushchi, with humanitarian aid, and I saw the searchlights that light up the drones to knock them down, and they're bought at the local budget. And in Ravenska, with the Lithuanian deputies, we visited the beautiful and beautiful shelters and positions of the Territorial Defence Force, which defend the Ukrainian-Belarus border, which are built by the local budget. Now all this money is going to be taken away. Not only are the funds that the newly created TROs started to pay, but also the funds that other force agencies have paid — the police, the BSS, even in small towns, where there was a huge deficit in the local budget. And where does this money go for defense? No, it's not. If they went to the Ministry of Defense, there would be at least some logic in that. They go to the State Department. Yesterday, a colleague of Pip’s spoke and explained how the State Department wanted to take the Metropolitan Gardens of Andrey Sheptick in Lviv, and the Levite press said that they wanted to build a building house there. Are you sure we have to take the money out of the searchlights, fortifications, and from the rehabilitation of the military to build in the gardens of the Metropolitan Tax House? I'm sure that shouldn't be the case. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-10-m0.u35	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 08.11.2023 on the adoption in the second reading and in the entire draft Law of Ukraine amending Chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code to ensure the protection of the State and the development of the defence and industrial complex of Ukraine (registration No. 10037 of 12.09.2023). Order number 10037-P5. Please vote. [[10:48:04]] For-34 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the day-to-day agenda has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We continue to work for the victory of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
