ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in conditions of martial law" today we continue our plenary session. I note that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the opening of the plenary session. I ask all my colleagues to abide by the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our country. In the event of air anxiety, there will be a pause in the plenary session and we all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of us. Ladies and gentlemen, according to parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear colleagues, for more than 20 months, the Ukrainian people are heroically opposed to the full - scale criminal attack of the Russian Federation. We believe in our power of defense and express our deep gratitude to all defenders and advocates for their courage, courage, self-loyal action that they display on the battlefield every day with a treacherous enemy. Thank you all for working tirelessly to win Ukraine. I offer a moment of silence to honor the memory of all our heroes who have given their lives for the independence and sovereignty of the Ukrainian State and of all the innocent victims of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies: Sergei Vasilovich Mageri, welcome, and Paul Vitaliovich Jakmenka. [[Applause]] Welcome! We welcome the nominees and wish them good health, fruitful work, and Ukraine’s fastest victory. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes' time before the daytime agenda begins for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Members of the MPs and groups, please sign up for the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the performance. So we invite Valery Gnatenka, the MP's "Delivery of Ukraine." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u3	It's freezing. I'd like to give the floor to Deputy Frost Volodymyr. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u4	Please, Mr. Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u6	Please, we've got a show coming from the rostrum right now. Please be able to perform from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, we will now vote on Law 10037 on the redistribution of the military PDF, which will allow the funds to be diverted from the local budgets to the army. Ukraine’s cities have been plagued by a wave of corruption. Not a wave, it's probably a tsunami. And every day of the war, this tsunami is covering the country more and more. Because now a lot of questions are not in time, and local authorities are actively using them. We hear a lot of calls from local self-government authorities that these funds can't be taken from local budgets into the state budget. Instead, they forget to give real figures that increased eightfold in connection with the total mobilization at the locations of the respective tax congregations. And instead of spending money on general needs, the cities are mass - laid. It's not much right now, it's a new rumble. The boys are asking for a contest, and we're talking to them in the middle of town. They need drones on the front, and we need asphalt. On the drums in one of the shelters, we offer to play. It's not cynicism. The best sons and daughters in the field of battle choose us every day, and local officials think only of their pockets. And the more to the front line, the worse. There is no connection to reality at all. In frontal communities there are millions on the roads, in cities near the front line: 37 million in Limanska, 63 in Svetgorska, 41 million in Dobropilla, and 33 million in Kurakhiv. And it's only summer of the 23rd. Flowers are planted in squares, stadiums are repaired. You can go to ProZorro in the evening instead of watching movies, and when it's supposed to be no worse and it can't, you can't watch the purchase of utility technology by the Sevrerodonet Trolleybus Authority for 40 million. The city has been occupied for over a year. It seems that this is all some kind of film absurd and cynical. In the churches of Ukraine, our heroes are sung, and a new asphalt is placed next to them, not forgetting to put part of it in their pocket. It just crossed the line. Western partners increasingly openly claim to be concerned about corruption. And we are now dependent on the help of other countries, on the supply of arms, on financial aid. We call for the preservation of the lives of soldiers. Drones and heat - visioners save lives and bring us closer to an oatmeal victory.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u8	Thank you. Valentin Nastvaichenko. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and do not stand back against the speakers. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I think you all realize that what you can do is sit in this room, work, pass lobby laws, drain some money and live here, all of which you owe not to weapons, not to money, but to those who have gone out to defend Ukraine with inspiration, from there to the front. And the fact that you are alive today is that they get hurt, fight, and die. Because of our work and the work of our team, we have traveled around a large number of hospitals, hospitals, to see how our injured people are treated, what conditions they are made, how they are fed, what medicines they are provided with, and whether they are provided to all for recovery. I'm not talking about rehab anymore. And I can tell you that this is a humiliation for Ukraine. There are several hospitals and hospitals that provide care at the highest level, but a host of hospitals, hospitals that do not have the necessary funding today. Packages funded by NHRIs are financed for a small part of the expenses needed to put the injured person on his feet. I want you to look at the conditions in which they are sometimes treated. In these circumstances, it is not even possible to be treated. There's not a lot of equipment, there's no drug on the national list, there's not a lot of it that gives these people a chance to survive, there's a part of the rot, there's no way to protect the limbs of our wounded at the front of our heroes and heroes. And today, when a temporary investigation commission is working, which is all now pulling out and pointing specifically at the documents. The budget for the following year again does not have the costs needed to buy all the drugs, equipment, repair these treatment facilities, and make a normal rehabilitation. I want to ask you, the state, does it even appreciate the life that is given there? Does the state report that it's being kept because they're heroes? And if you do not view today as the priority of their treatment, the rehabilitation of their return to life, then what is it worth. And so I ask you to pay particular attention when you consider the budget, so that 100 percent of it is funded for treatment and rehabilitation of wounded heroes and heroes. This is our responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u10	Thank you. Vladimir Aresonkov, please, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u11	Madam Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, honourable Ukrainians! From the "Trust" MP group, I begin my presentation on a single occasion with words of deep respect and gratitude to our famous Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Territorial Defence Force, our medics, volunteers, volunteers -- everyone who today, risking every hour of their lives, defends the freedom, sovereignty and independence of our country. Next, I would like to say that last week, those events that took place in the country that caused an extremely wide resonance both in Ukraine and outside our country, which caused a very mixed reaction and perception by Ukrainian society, by our international partners, I am referring to the speeches by the President-in-Chief of the country of Vladimir Greene and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Mr. Zalezhny. Now I'm not going to talk about the content, the deep content of their statements, the references, they've been talking about this all week, everybody, including our voters, talked about it. And they're very upset, they're very excited, they don't understand what's going on. And most of all, they're worried about how they feel about some internal conflict, some contradictions. This means that there are problems today in addressing the important issues facing the country. And the voters are asking me a question: what role does the Supreme Council of Ukraine play in this and how the Supreme Council is active in the conditions of the parliamentary-presidential republic today affect the adoption of strategic global decisions for our country? Give your own answer. Which is suggested by our "Trust" MP. First. Resume active dialogue among leaders of political groups, factions to discuss the situation in the country. We have to actively influence and propose to the President today and to the government in making decisions that are important to the country. We need to come together to adopt a plan, a plan of action, a plan for transition to future elections. The Supreme Council should be an active subject of politics and an active participant in all processes. A trust MP for that position. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u12	Heroic glory! Thank you. Feder Venislavsky, "Serve of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u13	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Mr. Leon Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u14	Please, the People's Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, today we will review Bill 10037, which foresees the temporary mobilization of military PFCs into the state budget. The aim of such mobilization is to increase the production of drones and ammunition, to ensure the development, development and implementation of new technologies capable of providing technological advantage over the enemy. In particular, we should stress that increasing the production of drones and ammunition is a direct requirement of our defence forces. Colleagues, we see, the Kremlin is not going to give up its captivating goals. War has become a protracted one. Russia is actively transferring its economy to military rails. Our allies are ready to continue closing the need to finance the social costs of the state budget. But we have our own taxes to provide for military spending. Under these conditions, Ukraine’s ability to increase its budget revenues to defend itself is a critical component of our victory. In order to dispel the last doubts, I would like to stress three fundamental points. First of all, no one in the territorial communities or in the local budgets takes anything, everything they make in their own efforts stays with them. Secondly, the government guarantees that each community will have financial resources at the level of 2021. Where this is needed, particularly in frontal communities, the lack of resources will be compensated by the cost of subsidies. Thirdly, the redistribution of military PFCs for the benefit of the military is the response of the Supreme Council to a huge public request: drones instead of repairs. My colleagues, I want to remind you of our President's words: every time I see our soldiers, I see a willingness not only to defend Ukraine, but to win for Ukraine. I am confident that the justice of these words will be confirmed by any who are in constant contact with our soldiers who help to cover up urgent needs. Today you and I have a real opportunity to help our defence and security forces. The decision to be taken by the Supreme Council is critical. In times of extraordinary trials, we must prove to everyone that the Ukrainian Parliament is the only one in its desire to work for victory. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u16	Thank you. Vladimir Tsabal, please, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the first question today is to vote on Bill 10037. I want to draw your attention to a few important things that concern both opposition and coalitions, things that concern our security and defence sector. I'll remind you that according to the next year's budget we have only 1.7 trillion dollars per security and defence sector. That's 300 billion less than this year. And given the inflation, we're really short about 500 billion so far. All those who don't want to vote in favour of the 10037 bill say that: let's not miss 300 billion, but 500 billion -- that is, for more than a month, we won't have money in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Yes, I understand that this is an unpopular decision. Yes, I understand that there are a lot of good communities that have spent a lot of this money, the military PDF, helping parts. This is Smila, this is Zvegel, these are other communities. On the average, however, the communities spent 30 billion of 160, or 18 percent, in 19 months. This money will be sufficient for just four days of war, for four days of financing the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So, fellows, I propose that we reject all political motives and think first of how we finance the army. Yes, it's an unpopular decision. Yeah, it's hard for me to vote for that decision. But let me tell you more, this is not the first unpopular decision we're going to vote on to increase military funding. Looking at the figures that are in the budget, looking at the dynamics of international aid, I think we're closer to the beginning of the next year, and in the middle of the next year we're going to have to make other decisions: redistribute other expenses, maybe increase taxes, because the Armed Forces of Ukraine have to be first, not stadiums, not clumps, not repairs of courts, not construction of office centres and other things that are currently being spent on military PFCs. Colleagues, please support 10037. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u18	Thank you. Vladimir Vjatrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u19	Please pass the powder to Peter Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u20	Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear friends, today is a very important day, a day we've been waiting for for at least 10 years. The day since the 14th, when thousands of people, millions of people have gone to Midan, demanding the integration of Ukraine into the European Union, when I signed the Association Agreement, the visa-free regime agreement, the Agreement on a Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Area. And now, a few hours after the Collegiate, the European Commission has to take a conclusion that opens the way to the negotiating process of Ukraine's accession to the European Union. Yes, there will be conditions, but we have to unite in Parliament to jointly implement by December 15 all the proposals of the European Union that will open the door to the Council of the European Union. We need to unite and unite around the Armed Forces, for this has been made possible primarily by the efforts of the Ukrainian soldiers. To unite is a verb, to unite means to act, to act to defend the state. And our team read the article of General Borrower and accepted it as a guide to action. Some did not like it, but they need to learn to speak the truth to the adult Ukrainian nation instead of the sweet - voiced lie of a single marathon. The people have the right to the truth. The epoch of applause is over. We've adjusted, our team, our entire program, and our charity fund are spending 150 million on the development of radio fights, tens of millions on the purchase of FPV drones and on the development of tactical drones and exchange techniques. But I'm sure that's how the government should react. Unity is a question of survival, of unity around the Armed Forces. And we don't have the right to political games, Hipes, and we don't have the right to vote under such a deadly threat. It is unacceptable when officials, ministers, or individual deputies pour water on the mill of Russian propaganda. It's time to calm down. And I demand that we draw conclusions and adopt legislation to give the Commander-in-Chief the right to make proposals for change of commanders in order to avoid similar bad situations. I demand that we finally settle the UCD situation. And I demand that a draft Venezuelan ruling be put out of the Committee for the National Security of Angola. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u22	Thank you. Mikola Skorik, please, "Platform for Life and Peace."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u23	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Mikola Skorik, MP for Life and Peace. This week the Supreme Council of Ukraine has a very busy, very meaningful and very responsible agenda. First of all, this approval of the continuation of the military state and the general mobilization, this approval of the budget for the following year, this was very nice to see in the order of the day this week, a series of laws that are aimed at supporting our economy and laws that are aimed at the social protection of our citizens, primarily veterans, and, unfortunately, at the socially vulnerable levels of our population. On behalf of the MP's Life and Peace Group, I want to say that we will support all initiatives aimed at maintaining the security of our state, maintaining the economy of our state, and protecting our citizens socially. In the context of this week’s approval of the budget, I would also like to say about Law 10037, which has been under consideration for several days by the Supreme Council. First of all, I think it's completely wrong that the Supreme Council has been doing one bill for such a long time. I think the bill is really very problematic, very important, but actually blocking a huge amount of right-hand work by the Supreme Council, I don't think it's in time. I understand that by approving the budget, we will have to vote in favour of this bill, and in this context I would like to say about the responsibility, the serious responsibility that rests on the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. And there's a finance minister here who's actually quite professionally managing this difficult situation. But in fact, the Ministry of Finance is handing over a large number of communities in our country. Because both the level of the area and the level of the area today have been deprived of those weights to give any budget transfers to level the situation, and it's really going to be difficult in a lot of communities. Because military PFCs are actually a budgetary tax for a huge number of our communities, small communities, so large agglomerations. This will motivate them to look for new sources of income, but small communities will not be able to replace them, and this is a threat in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We have our last speech from Taras Batenka, the faction. More loyally, the Group For the Future. Mr. Taras, please. Please take your seats and, please, do not hold back from speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the following year will unfortunately be the tenth year of war and will soon begin the third year of full-scale invasion. This is the greatest war in Europe since the end of World War II, which has changed the world, has changed all of us. I want to say that, with the results of our recent visit to the United States of America by our temporary special commission of representatives of all factions and groups, we continue to feel the two-party support of America and believe that we will be able to find a way of compromise in the House of Representatives and in the Senate and vote on the financial document that is critically needed by Ukraine. Not much, not much -- it's more than $11 billion in direct budget support already in the 24th year budget project, which we'll be voting with you tomorrow. But we need to understand that if we don't have this money all of a sudden, we want to hear the answer and the discussion from the Ministry of Finance, what do we do and how do we get out of this situation. We cannot allow social collapse in the country next year. We welcome the two-party bill of congressmen of the United States, which provides for the transfer to Ukraine of the frozen assets of the Russian Federation. And I think this process needs to be pushed more quickly around the civilized world. We can't help but agree with the President of Ukraine that today we can't allow society to be distracted by topics that our enemy is particularly attentive to, for example, the issues of election rejections, the issues of misunderstandings between the leadership of the state and the higher military command, the issues of society. language theme, etc. These are the subjects that our enemy is watching too closely, trying to make sure that internal contradictions outweigh external aggression. If that happens, we lose. Therefore, the internal consolidation of all political elites should be the main pillar of our political activity. Another issue that concerns us is the preservation and expansion of good-neighbourly relations with our strategic partner, the Republic of Poland, who first founded Ukraine's shoulders after a full-scale invasion. We are concerned about blocking the crossings across the Ukrainian-Polish border, which could inevitably lead to a deterioration and so complex socio-economic situation in Ukraine. We also welcome the newly elected Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland, and we hope that this problem with the newly elected parliamentarians will be resolved. We hope that the Ukrainian Parliament will soon accept in its session an appropriate appeal to our Polish brothers and sisters with faith in a future collective victory, a joint work based on mutual trust, respect, for the benefit of the Polish and Ukrainian peoples. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u26	Heroic glory! Thank you. It's all the speeches for today. They all did, I think. Alexander Sergiyovich, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, we continue our work in the field of parliamentaryism. I propose a signal vote in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Before the daytime agenda is discussed, a signal vote will be held. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" button and hold all the two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. Everybody ready? Please take part in the signal vote. [[12:11:31]] For 265 Five against, five against, holding. The green button isn't always green, I understand. Once again, I urge you to abide by the security rules, not to spread information about the course of the plenary session, which has been decided in Parliament more than an hour after we have finished our work. You have a list of agenda issues. We're looking at 10037. And yesterday, we looked at all the accounting checks. Now let's move on to the confirmation line. I know there's a couple of birthrights I offered to put in. So now, if I'm ready for Fatherland, then I give the word of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, four minutes as we agreed. From the rostrum, huh? Let's get out of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u28	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland. Dear friends, you don't have to talk about this law here, I think it's one of the few laws that every MP knows about. It's about what's going on. This year, 25 billion dollars are planned to be removed from local budgets and 97 billion dollars from local budgets next year. Dear friends, not only do they take away the military’s VAT, but they take away the VAT from all the people who carry the drives. There has never been such an unprecedented event. I don't want to remind you that today the budgets of the communities have taken over everything that is not financed by the state. They treat the wounded, help the refugees, repair the enemy’s homes, repair the enemy’s roads, and hold the community by all means. And today, taking this money to local communities means leaving the military without immediate assistance, which the local communities provide to both the military and the military and the DFTG. We don't know that the first ones the military goes to to get help are the local budgets, and they get it. And what you're taking to the corruption boiler of central power right now is you're practically desecrating the lives of the entire country. Another question is that the country needs drones. Obviously, it's necessary. And not now, after two years of war, but from the first day of war. Let's look at the budget and just see if we can get this money somewhere without touching the territorial communities. We can take it. And I want to tell you where that money is right now. First. The next 24 years are going to be a pay reform for all bureaucrats across the country. Forty billion dollars are paid to bureaucrats because they have been changed in their system and form of pay. Can't we wait until the end of the war? This is the first resource. The other one. Look, you have the Energy Improvement Act in your agenda. In fact, 97 billion are given the opportunity to either write off direct taxes on large energy corporations or pay taxes that will not allow the budget to be received. So tell me, energy-intensive corporations now need debt write-offs, and communities that barely survive take their last penny. And one more thing. Remember, there are major internal debt manipulations. So the National Bank is making an issue of money, and this issue gives the budget to Ukraine under 20 to 25 percent of the year-olds. And next year, we're going to be returning 450 billion direct internal debt and 350 billion services from our budget. Do we have common sense? This is to be put to war now, not to be brought to the National Bank and then through corruption through commercial banks. Do not vote for this law. Thousands of communities have taken decisions from the councils and have asked you not to vote. Don't commit a crime right now, there's other money on the drones, and we need to get them on the drones, but we can't destroy the communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u29	Thank you. Yeah, we've got "European Solidarity." Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko, perhaps, we will begin. 60, 140 and 282, and 282 will vote. Colleagues, invite the deputies to the hall. We'll have a vote in three minutes. Three minutes, Dusty, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u30	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Thanks to every national MP who didn't vote for this disgraceful law last time. Thanks to someone who's not going to vote for him right now. And the position that we need to unite because we're talking about unity is the interests of the Armed Forces. The interests of the Armed Forces are the money of the local self-governance on the brigade's accounts. And if they pay for the PDF and this money directly returns at least 20 to 25 percent to their accounts, that's the right approach. If we shorten bureaucracy and allow this money to be used immediately by battalion commanders and brigade commanders to buy drones, FPVs, spare parts, the rest of the fighting positions, it's much more effective than handing over eggs to 17-year-olds, winter jackets and tens of billions of receivables and distributions of money. I want to emphasize, do you know what this law is called in the people in Odessa? Welcome to Hotcharyenka. They call it the takeaway law. You know this is a funeral, a funeral of self-government, a reform of decentralization. And I'm proud that for our team, this world admitted, this was the most successful reform. And today, at least give up that money to the Mini-Defense and leave 30 percent on the brigade's accounts. You turned it down, too. I stress separately, let's not go through the law again today, and at the preparatory stage, let them hear the voice of the national MPs who are able to protect the soldiers of the brigades who are able to give money to the military fairly. It's not about the nuisance, it's our law that prohibits the spending on the buzzards, the drums, and all the fact that the heads of the district administrations that have been appointed instead of the chosen ones have been disbursed by the military. I emphasize: money - brigades, bureaucracy - away, decentralization - save. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u31	Heroic glory! Yeah, 282 revisions. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the People's Deputies of Dusty to confirm the amendment number 282 by Podlasy. It's counted by the committee. Let's put it on confirmation. Please vote. [[12:21:14]] For 256 Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. Show the factions, please. Okay. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, 729 straight. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u32	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! Why should we not vote in favour of this bill? First. The interests of communities on the front line or in frontal areas are completely disregarded. You take money from them, and instead you don't really offer anything. They are to go to Kiev for a gift. The other one. At the moment, local self - government makes it possible to get help from the brigades for days, up to a week. If you vote on this law, it'll be months, at least five to six months. And the third. Today, a large portion of these funds must be directed towards the creation of fortifications and abandoned, and local authorities must be obliged to do so. I therefore urge you not to vote in favour of this bill. And I'm asking you not to make the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u33	Thank you. And Alexy Alexiyovich Honcharenko has four revisions: 355, 730, 1394 and 1536, if I'm not mistaken. Give me the potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u34	One minute at a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u35	One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u36	Yes, 355 is extremely important right now. She's saying that you want to take the money away, not a lot of what's in the back number, and you don't know how much. Because this readjustment says that by the year in which the state of war will be lifted. Well, so if, for example, the state of war were to be lifted on January 2, this would still be going to work for a year? So you're just robbing and destroying local self-government. Your coalition, we see it, colleagues, don't join the coalition: "Serve of the people", "Serve of the people," and "Serve of the Voice." Well, it's a shame to be in such a coalition and vote together for such a shameful law. So, my friends, please don't vote now. Show that there is some common sense. How can we be taken before the war is over? An absurd amendment, like all this law, is absurd. Please don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u37	We're putting it on, aren't we, Alexei Alexiyovich? Let's bet, okay. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the People's Deputy of Honcharenko to confirm the license number 355 of the People's Deputies of the Road. It's counted by the committee. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Please vote. [[12:24:23]] For 257 Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. Next 730, Alexeiyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u38	Thank you. Well, the coalition: "Serviary of the People", OPCW, "The Voice" -- it's still working, it's too bad. Another chance, now, is a revision that will allow it to be at least the last number, not the 1st of October. How can you take back the cost, how can you do that? Friends, if all of this were to go back to the '30s' to pay off the money out of the state, the wounded, but no, it's all going to be taken to tear down Kiev, because it's not enough anymore, what's already been torn apart has to be shredded the rest of what's in the local self-government. But it's especially dangerous about October 1st, it's winter. Maybe you don't know it yet: winter begins. Who will burn our cities? Who? Those who are now voting to take that money? Who Will Take Responsibility? We're told it's the worst winter ever. So what are you doing? You take away the opportunity to provide local self - government with warmth and everything you need.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u39	I'll bet the vote on the proposal of the national MP Hotcharenko to confirm the 730. 730 is the law of the People's Deputy of Podlaso. It's counted by the committee. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Please vote. [[12:26:13]] For 251 Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. Show the factions, please. The next one is 1394. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u40	Thank you. Well, friends, well, here I can see that a few colleagues have come to their senses. Now it's also important to correct what direction this money is going to spend. So what I'm saying is, if we're adopting this law, we're not giving money to build fortifications -- what we need today. Well, look, we see what fortifications are today during this war. Instead of preparing right now, preparing our possible protection in the dangerous direction itself, we are taking these costs away. And for what? As Peter Poroshenko said from the rostrum, the law of the court will be taken away. That's what I'm going to add: the law to take and steal. Take it and steal it. Well, I'm sorry, it can't be that way! At a time like this, that's how much money is worth! And I'm drawing your attention, this amendment that we're going to be looking at right now, it doesn't include the very important directions that we need: fortification building, support for the wounded, payment of money to the military. Please don't support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u41	Alexiyyovich Honcharenko proposes to confirm the amendment number 1394 of the authorship of Korneyenka, Horbenko, Arahamiya, Frolov. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Please vote. [[12:28:01]] For 265 Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. Show the factions, please. And the final 1536. And then there's three more papers that Dmitri Alexanderovich is going to make. Four. So, colleagues, let's not break up. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u42	Friends, this is my final statement under this law. We see that there are voices. We see there were 18 deputies here on Saturday, and there was a disgrace. Well, why go to work? We see there were 30 to 40 deputies here yesterday, and today we are gathered together, gathered together, gathered together from the most important missions and from the Carpathians, and from the Maldives, everyone has been concentrated everywhere, because we have to take the money. It's very important. Guys, I want to tell you. Even Gunko came out of S.I.A. because he didn't have his voice. Gunk's voice was missing. So friends have gathered both the dead and the living and the unborn. ZIZO was taken from where everyone could get the money. Guys, this is a disgrace. I want to say right away that in all the communities, they're going to know the name list, who and how they're going to vote to keep you responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u43	The national deputy of Honcharenko proposes to confirm the amendment number 1536 by Kornienka, Gorbenko, Arahamiya, Frolov. It's counted by the committee. Please vote. [[12:29:51]] For 255 Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, please. 731st, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u44	Alexander Sergiyovich, I ask you, here are the four revisions, I ask you to give three minutes, and then put everyone to the vote at the same time, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u45	Dmitri Aleksandrovitch, and these are rejected corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u46	731?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u47	Yeah, and 32th, and 33rd, they're rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u48	And seven hundred.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u49	Everybody, they're all down here.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u50	Then give me a minute out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u51	Out of procedure, Brainy. And prepare for the vote, we will now vote on the law. Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u52	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, Olena Kostvena, for finally having a sufficient number of national deputies to make the decision. I see it's entirely your joint merit, I'd like to mark it for the hall. It's true, you have to admit it. Unfortunately, before this consideration of these rights was completely unconstitutional, unfortunately, this bill is also unconstitutional. Colleagues, please don't vote for him because he's violating the Constitution. You're implementing this bill, which will probably become the law, since October 1st, which is the law of reverse force. You're going to take money from the communities they're counting on, preparing for the hot season, preparing to live through this difficult winter, which unfortunately very often the central authorities just weren't prepared and are not prepared for today. Come to the vote with a mind, be wise, I address you very much and please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u53	Thank you. Colleagues, we are going to vote in favour of the law as a whole and in the second reading. I would like to propose to the vote a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Law on Registration 10037 amending Chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code to ensure the protection of the State and the development of the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex. Please vote. [[12:32:19]] For 253 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. The law was passed in general. Thank you, Yuri Mikhailovich Kusbit. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, don't break up, we'll have it now. We have a procedural vote. The next item is the approval of President of Ukraine's decrees on the continuation of the state of war in Ukraine and on the continuation of the general mobilization period. At the Conciliation Council, we agreed to discuss one question and to vote on the next without discussion. So I'm voting on the proposal to consider a short-term bill for registration number 10211 of the bill approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree "On Continuation of Military Status in Ukraine". Please vote. [[12:33:28]] For-300 Decision taken. Please sign two in, two in, and no. Shvačko, "Slut of the People". It's a seamstress.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u54	Please give the word to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u55	Venislavski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, today we are discussing with you one more time the approval of President of Ukraine's decrees on the continuation of the legal regime of martial law and the continuation of the general mobilization. Unfortunately, the aggressor country of the Russian Federation does not abandon its intentions to destroy Ukrainian statehood, destroy the Ukrainian people, destroy our freedom. And we have no choice but to provide an adequate, professional, coordinated response to the Russian aggressor, and that is our support for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And today, to my profound conviction, we have done a very important thing, and we have foreseen additional funds for security and defence. Similarly, an important thing today will be the support of those Presidential initiatives that are fully consistent with his constitutional mandate, namely the continuation of the legal regime of martial law and the continuation of the general mobilization. Unlike the terrorist country, the aggressor countries of the Russian Federation have never denied that Ukraine is in a state of full-scale defensive war, and it realizes its right under the Charter of the United Nations to self-defence. And this self-defense provides for the consolidation of effort and power, and of the Ukrainian people in upholding our territorial integrity, state sovereignty and the restoration of Ukraine's borders according to internationally recognized treaties, and this is the whole territory of Ukraine that was in Ukraine's 91st year when Ukraine declared its independence. That's why the People's Servant political party will support this law. And I am convinced that this law must be brought together one more time. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u57	Voice. Sharaskin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u58	Glory to Ukraine! First. At the request of my colleague, Samantha Bobrowski, I want to say that the second change in the commander of the Force of Special Operations during this time is considered a personal intervention, a rude intervention in military leadership. This is the messaging first. Bedroom number two. Of course, we will support the continuation of the state of war. And the third one from me personally, I insist that this is my personal opinion that we need to categorically and fundamentally change our approaches to general mobilization. From the very beginning of the full - scale invasion, all that was done was, in part, contracted by all those who came into the territorial defenses, sent to the front of the permanent location, introduced changes and prescriptions. And these people stay there. And it is not that we are somehow ashamed of them or that the authorities have deceived them, no, they are willing to defend their land, but let us do it according to the law and the law. We're going to continue the general mobilization period again. Instead, the main issues are unresolved? Who, in what terms, in what terms and why they should arrive. So far, we have not had a discussion, an honest discussion with our fellow citizens. What Can Volunteers Do? Are they in the service or not yet? What to do for those who really want to serve but for some other reason cannot.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u59	Alexiyovich, please. European Solidarity, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u60	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Of course, we will now vote for the continuation of the state of war, for the continuation of the general mobilization, because unfortunately, the war is going on. But I want to go to our Hall, to the President, to the Council of National Security and Defence. I don't see the Secretary of the RNB. Well, he'd at least come to us earlier when we were looking at this. Well, now it's no time for us or Schmigal, now the Secretary of the PNB is not coming. Soon no one will come to us. We're not going to come to you either. It doesn't make sense what you're doing here. Yeah, well, I want to say to Mr. Daniel, who was there yesterday, that we have to believe in victory. Yes, we must believe in victory, and we believe in victory. But we still have to work to win! Work every day! No show, no drums, work to win. The weapons, the army, once again, the weapons, the army, the fortifications -- it's called working to win. Now we're going to continue the period of total mobilization. Where is the honest answer to those who have been mobilized for 20 months? How many will they serve? How can it be that there is a way in and there is no way out? Why is there no time limit on how much they have served and can be replaced by others? You can't pull a war on the shoulders of the same people! Impossible! Yes, our heroes are getting tired of steel, but even metal. Give people a chance. There's my demobilization bill in the Supreme Council after 18 months of service, maybe we should discuss it more. But let's give people this chance, and let's be honest with you, who owes their debt to their Fatherland, they replace it, and this person can rest. We believe in victory, but we need not only to believe in it but also to work on it daily.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u61	"Paternity." Please, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u62	Your Honor, your colleagues, I think there's a very frank conversation going on, and if we don't have it now, it's going to be harder and harder for us. Undoubtedly, the Fatherland faction will support these two most important questions. But there is no doubt that the "Paternity" faction divides those concerns that occur with total mobilization. And it's not the question that we have to throw untapped young people on the front, it's not the question that we have to throw students on the front. The question is completely different. If this is a general mobilization, we have had enough time to prepare the fighting people who can do these tasks. If we start dividing the nation into those who may or may not, it will be the scariest. The second most important question. Who's getting the armor? Is an administrative position sufficient to enable a person not to go to defend the Fatherland? The third and most important question. How will the key and most important things continue to be accomplished? Those with the best training who have retired at 47, 48, 49, 50 years of age, but somehow they are not mobilized but are mobilized by those who do not have training. That's the key answer that the President, the government and we need to find. Without it, it's going to be harder and harder. That is why we support this decision, but we warn of decisions to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u63	A kiss, "Trust." Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u64	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Paul the Bacon. The "Trust" MP clearly supports, we continue the state of war in our country again for three months. Of course, this means that everyone needs to regain a great inner state of energy to keep working. At this time, we thank those who risk the most -- our Armed Forces of Ukraine -- for what you're protecting. Thanks to this remaining business, he has not left the country that has officially registered and works, paying taxes to pay our courageous military personnel. Thank you to the international partners you are helping us to maintain the social sphere. We believe that with God’s help, with the courage of a Ukrainian soldier, we will win at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u65	Thank you. Are there other factions and groups? No, then let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft law of registration number 10211 on the approval of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the period of military status in Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:45:17]] For 329 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Show the factions, please. I'm betting on the vote to accept the proposal, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, to adopt the bill of registration number 10212 on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decree on the continuation of the general mobilization period. Please vote. [[12:45:58]] For 322 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, the next question we have is ratification, one with discussion and still a few without discussion. That's why I'm voting now. Let's move on to question 0217. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the Construction of Road Crossing Crossing the Dniester River on the Ukrainian-Moldov State Border in the Yampil-Koseuc District. I'm betting on the vote to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[12:46:50]] For 269 Decision taken. Deputy Minister for the Development of Communities, Territories and Infrastructure of Ukraine Alexander Alexander Butenko is invited to report, please. The important question is, we need to listen to the reporters.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor! The draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the Construction of Road Crossing Crossing the Dniester River at the Ukrainian-Moldaw State Border in the Yampil-Koseuts District (Registration No. 0217 of 9 August 23), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is being submitted to your consideration. I would like to remind you that on June 12 the agreement was signed in Kiev between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the construction of a road border crossing. The subject of the agreement is the construction of a road bridge crossing on the Ukrainian-Moldaw border, which will become property of Ukraine. The total length of the crossing is 1,000 feet [1,400 m], and the artificial structure will have two lanes of traffic with sidewalks on both sides. Access to Ukraine is 890 meters, the design road category is the second category, the width of the section is 7 meters [7 m] 50 cm. The transition project takes into account the standards of colourlessness, such as the fitting of sidewalks with lower deckstone levels within pedestrian crossings. The original construction period is 2025. What are the advantages of this covenant? Increasing transit potential, disengageing border links and stimulating cross-section of Ukrainian cargo, Ukrainian exporters are getting a new path from the center of Ukraine to Central and South-Eastern Europe. The financing of this agreement is for three years, and the total amount is 5 billion 43 million 863 thousand dollars. Divided into three years. Expenses will be made in the direction of use of the funds in the construction provided for in the passport of the above-mentioned budget programme. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u67	Thank you. From the committee, deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Yes, indeed, the draft Law 0217 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the construction of a road border bridge crossing across the Dniester River on the Ukrainian-Moldaw border and in the Yampil-Koseuc district. Dear colleagues, our Foreign Policy Committee, the Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation Committee has reviewed this agreement and has recommended that you vote and support, just like our colleagues from the Infrastructure Committee and the Committee for European Integration. It's a very simple point. In 2021 our presidents agreed to implement the project, but in connection with the war, it ended, and in June of this year our ministers of infrastructure of Ukraine and Moldova signed a document. What should we note? Which, first of all, this is going to be the shortest way, this is building between Kiev and Chisinau. The project will be implemented at the expense of the Ukrainian and Moldovan governments. It is worth noting that our exporters will get the shortest way from the center of Ukraine to the countries of Central and South-Eastern Europe around the occupied Transnistria. And, of course, today it's going to be a big alternative to the porous transport that is now at the Jumpil Koseut crossing, and it's not doing it properly. This will be a completely new modern bridge crossing of 1,000 feet [1,000 m], taking into account the indifference and all that is needed today according to the new established building standards, the esteemed colleagues that we have voted with you. That is why I urge you, dear colleagues, to support the ratification and we have a new modern relationship that will develop the economy, our interstate relationship between Ukraine and Moldova. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u69	Heroic glory! Please sign two in, two in, and no. Please, Nicorak, "European Solidarity." Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, today we are discussing a very weak issue. Unfortunately, once again, Ukrainian voters have no opportunity to know what Parliament lives for, which Parliament is voting for, which position in Parliament. Because you put 200 million dollars on the Council channel, but it shows the Office of the President, his advisors, his advisors, not the main legislative body, Parliament. And I want to thank my colleagues -- and Alexia Hotcharenko, and others -- who are doing the work now, in fact, on the "Council" channel, and the office here, the Parliamentary Press Service, saving 200 million dollars in principle to go on drones for whatever it is, but not for such a waste. We're discussing very important ratifications. And today, on a historic day when the European Commission will publish a report on Ukraine's commitments to start formal negotiations on accession to the EU. And the European Union is common rules and norms. And if we're talking about integration into the European Union, we need to look for economic integration now. If we're talking about the Ukrainian economy today being so dependent on the support of our partners, of course it's the right thing to build new bridges. But when it comes to these border bridges, why isn't our government here, none of them from the government -- well, it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs -- not looking for funds in the European Commission, in the European Union to finance these border crossings, to finance these border bridges? We're convinced that a professional conversation with the European Commission would help us find external funding here, and these billions of dollars that you're now sending from the Ukrainian budget to these needs, we could redirect to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, where there's really no drones where we really need them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u71	Thank you, Fatherland, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, our dear protectors! Today, by ratifying several important international agreements, we, as the Fatherland faction and the entire Ukrainian Parliament, urge that the best experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs be really involved in the register of damage caused by Russian aggression against Ukraine. The other one. We suggest that in each embassy, the General Consulate, legal advisers will work to protect our interests in matters of foreign property, in matters of damage to Ukrainian citizens, particularly to settlers, in the protection of damage to our Ukrainian producers and companies. We are today directly addressing the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the time to act and defend the interests of Ukraine in international courts, and to support Ukrainian producers who defend Ukrainian property in international courts, and most importantly to have a single plan, a single action and a major result to ensure that such protection of Ukraine's interests is: (a) effective, (b) effective. One more. In Ukraine's international efforts now, without exaggeration, this is the beginning of negotiations on membership in the European Union. The Fatherland faction supports, as soon as possible this year, to enter into such negotiations, to complete, for example and above all, a recommendation to fight corruption: here, in this room, here, in our country, and thus become a full member of the European Union. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u73	Voice, please. Klimenko? Julia Klimenko, please. And then the "Slut" Pusher and all, right? And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u74	Klimenko, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, the idea, of course, and we're ratifying the agreement already signed by our government, the idea is certainly beautiful. I think it's going to cost, this bridge is not going to cost 5 billion, it's going to cost much more, because this bridge is almost a mile and a half. But let's say directly, this bridge isn't going to help us at the moment, because the construction of this bridge is foreseen, and the end, for the 25th year at best, and in the worse, it's going to be around 26-27. So let's not lie to ourselves, this city will in no way change our export-import power. So we need to think about how we are going to solve the problem of the Polish truckers, the blocking of the pass, the points of the pass, not sitting and putting our heads in the sand, as the government is doing right now, and all the officials are going to do it, because we are hoping for a bridge in Moldova, which will be five years from now, at least naive. And also, this bridge is going to be built exclusively for Ukrainian money, so that's also going to have to be taken into account in how we count the economy of this bridge in the rest. But please, I would like to point out to my colleagues that if the government doesn't take the lead and start to resolve the issue of unlocking the points of the pass, we're going to have to create some group in Parliament and start to decide at our own level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u75	Thank you. A rifle is one minute and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, we are now discussing with you the ratification between our state and another state -- Moldova -- of building an infrastructure facility. These are our interstate commitments. Yes, a large-scale invasion prevented us from starting this in the 22nd year. But today, when we speak and expect the European Commission's decision today to implement our recommendations and further negotiations on the introduction, it is important to build up. And these five-and-a-half-year wars have shown that our exporters are waiting for the border infrastructure. Moldova and I are going to join the EU in tandem. So I'm asking you very much to support this decision today, because in fact, we have a border infrastructure with the Youth who suffers a lot. Our exporters, our economy, are waiting for this object. Therefore, I ask you, my fellow Members, to support us, including our path to the EU. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u77	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote, ask to take a seat. I would like to propose to vote a proposal to adopt, on the basis and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law of Registration No. 0217 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the construction of a road-crossing bridge crossing through the Dniester River on the Ukrainian-Moldov State Border in the area of the Yampil-Koseuc settlement. Please vote. [[13:00:24]] For-286 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Show me the factions, please. And without discussion, we're voting three more ratifications, so don't split up. I am betting on the vote to adopt the proposal on the basis and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the bill for registration number 0225 of the draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Extended Partial Agreement on the Register of Damages by the Aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:01:12]] For 295 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Let us turn to the next question. Bill No. 0229, Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Exchange and Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. I am betting on the vote to adopt the proposal on the basis and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the exchange and mutual protection of information with limited access (registration No. 0229). Please vote. [[13:02:03]] For 295 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. And here we go to registration number 0226: draft law on ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, on the other hand, on the participation of Ukraine in the Civil Protection Mechanism of the Union. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law of Registration No. 0226, on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, on the other hand, on Ukraine's participation in the Civil Protection Mechanism of the Union. Please vote. [[13:02:52]] For 302 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Next question of the order of the day, with registration number 9605. From the procedure? She's a court-martial.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've just returned from the front line. Both the military and the civilian population want to know what Parliament lives for. And when they hear the news that 200 million dollars are being allocated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Council Channel, they have one question: We see that in cable channels, on other media, there's all this information about today's vote. And you can't just understand why the media, those. The parliamentary bulletin is official, which is the Council Channel, it does not report on the activities of all parliamentary factions. The opposition is full of political censorship and blockwork. But he doesn't talk about meetings as a whole. We want to go to the chairman at today's meeting and call on your colleagues to vote for the Council channel to start working properly as a parliamentary newsletter, informing and sharing the proposals of all factions and parliaments as a whole, for which we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u79	Thank you. I call on the Rada Channel to work as a parliamentary newsletter. So let's move on to the next question on the agenda. Order with registration number 9605 on the amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the provision of adequate medical care for military personnel and members of the military and superior forces who have suffered injuries, injuries or other health injuries during events in eastern Ukraine. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:05:05]] For 287 Decision taken. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[13:05:25]] For 246 No discussion? Then let's go to the vote, colleagues. An important decision, we cannot take it for a long time. I would like to vote on the draft Resolution 9605 on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the provision of adequate medical care for military personnel and members of the military and primary staff who have suffered injuries, injuries or other health injuries during events in eastern Ukraine. Please vote. The proposal to accept in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[13:06:14]] For 294 Decision taken. The decree was passed in general. Show the factions, please. The next question of the agenda, too, should be included in the agenda of the day session, so the request should not be broken. Out of procedure, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, this is the National Military Cemetery. I want to say that the leadership of the Supreme Council and the leadership of the Servant of the People faction promised to meet the families of the dead to talk to them about this sensitive issue, because the Supreme Council voted in April to draft a bill on the authorship of the "ministers of the people" for the creation of the National Cemetery in Bykown. The funds were set aside for this. The bill has not yet been signed. And today at the Conciliation Council, we discussed the following. Which has the power to meet the families of the dead. It's important, it's not a simple dialogue, but it's a very sensitive question. We propose that Parliament's leadership and the "Serial of the People" faction meet the families of the dead, and then the bill is put into the agenda. We ask that we move it from today's plenary meeting because this is a sensitive issue and families of the dead take it with an insult from Parliament's vote when they're not with them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u81	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you want to put this proposal to a vote? We turn to question 9676: the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the placement of the National Military Memorial Cemetery. Of course, we start by putting the day session in order. It's also a consideration, isn't it? Okay. Will we have linguistic battles? I think it's more like other colleagues who aren't in Parliament. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. 9676. [[13:08:44]] For 231 Questions are included in the agenda of the day session. Show the factions, please. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:09:08]] For 222 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. Two for, two for, please sign in. Two in, two in. Please, Dear Mikolayovich. Dubnov, I get it, right? Dubnov, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u82	Turn it on from there. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Your opinion is proposed a bill (registration number 9676) amending some Ukrainian legislation on the location of the National Military Memorial Cemetery. The war in Ukraine did not begin on February 24, 2022, and it began in 2014, more than nine years ago. During this time, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians and Ukrainians have stood up for our nation, for the protection of national sovereignty and for the territorial integrity of Ukraine, for the protection of our European rights and freedoms and for the protection of the peaceful and happy heavens for our children. During this time, tens of thousands of our protectors and protectors have been awarded State rewards, and hundreds of them have been awarded the highest national prize – the name Hero of Ukraine. Sadly, many of them are postmortem. We should honor the memory of Ukrainian heroes who gave their most precious life and health for Ukraine's independence. Soldiers, protectors, and protectors who, by exercising personal courage and heroism in the defense of national sovereignty, remained loyal to the military oath, were killed by a clash with a Russian invader. We owe them forever. Many public debates were held at the Department of Veterans, a society, including many families of fallen heroes, many public organizations that unite hero families, have been heard, and the National Military Memorial Cemetery is now offering to create one that is expected. In addition, a large legislative work was carried out by a group of national deputies, for which I thank them very much. The draft law removes all bureaucratic obstacles and allows the construction of the National Cemetery to begin this year, and the burial is about to begin. I very much ask my colleagues to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u83	Please, Vitarovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, please explain, and what do we consider when Parliament has come to such humiliation? In May, we passed the Military Memorial Cemetery Act, 322 votes, all factions, all ministries, all supported. Almost the same test that we're looking at today, apart from the location, we voted specifically for the Bull, and now Kyivrad has put a field into it. The President did not exercise the veto for 15 days and did not return the law. Therefore, he is quoted as referring to article 94 of the Constitution, which is considered to be approved by the President of Ukraine and should be signed and officially made public. What should a parliament that is truly subjective do? To urge the head of state to abide by the Constitution. Instead, you and I live in some kind of anti-utopia. Bankova did not want a cemetery in Kiev; they wanted the Fastov region. Let's forget that you even approved this law. Listen to the indignant relatives of the fallen heroes who have already convened a press conference that initiated a petition to the President demanding that the Cemetery Act be signed. Colleagues, Parliament has no right to be broad for this seduction. The law has been passed, we must do everything we can to make sure that the heroes are buried and given their National Military Cemetery. Stop bullying the families of the dead. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u85	Heroic glory! "To the future," Anna speedster, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, every minute of silence, we mention our dead defenders. Yeah, well, if you really respect them, if you're grateful to them for putting their lives away for us to live on, so that all Ukraine lives on, this law cannot be voted on. Because the families of the dead repeatedly insisted that they do not carry the memorial cemetery from Bykovni. This is a convenient location for families to visit, to which our children, future generations, will be able to come. And taking it somewhere the hell knows where, on the Odessa route, it's disrespect for our dead, it's disrespect for the families of our dead, who lost their loved ones and loved ones for Ukraine's independence. Dear colleagues, I understand it's a masculine piece, it's a masculine piece under the walls, under the business and so on, but we have the honor. The Supreme Council should be honored. We cannot humiliate the memory of our fallen warriors and vote on this law. Colleagues, I urge you to support the families of the dead, to support the entire "Azow," to support other brigades that cannot bury their fighters because we're still hanging out with the memorial cemetery. Do not vote on this law, preserve the honor of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u87	Yes, Voice, Bobrovska Solomia, please. Samantha Anatoly, please. Will any of the other factions and groups be any more? Pavel Andryovich? Soboled? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, you know, I understand that this is a very narrow moment and this is a low-level topic that only seems to be facing some of you. For all of you to meet, you must have the courage to look periodically into the eyes of the boys and their families in the face of the loss of these loved ones. So, when you six months ago, some of you were asking your parents to wait and bury your boys, the girls in Biking, to make there a memorial cemetery with all of our heroes in Ukraine, burials and so on, when this whole long process went through and there was agreement, everyone was okay with it, and we really voted 322 people for this bill. And then all of a sudden, no explanation, four months later, there's a new story coming out, there's new MPs that register, and there's a conflict. You either have no respect for all these families who lose, cry, suffer, or do not include their heads and their brains. Look, please, once again, it's not about creating another cemetery, it's about transferring, it's definitely not about voting. If you're supposed to sleep with a urn or live in a house where there's a person's urn that's expensive to you because they don't hide it and they're waiting for it to be buried where it was agreed, well, you know, I just don't have any other words to say to you. I don't think it's a huge request: not to vote for this bill, it's disrespect for all the families of Ukrainian heroes who are to be buried in a large Ukrainian memorial cemetery. Not to trade land where someone is comfortable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u89	Sergey Vladislavovich, please, Fatherland. And we're going to go to the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction voted in principle in favour of including this issue in the agenda so that we can see the government officials who should come out here and explain why they require the right to determine where they will end up after all this time at the National Memorial Cemetery. Where's the government, please? We also met the families of the dead, and their questions were: How long can we wait for this situation? So here's the proposition of our faction. We believe that it is urgent to create a working group with the participation of the government, families of the dead, and to identify this issue when Parliament will determine it, not as it is written in the law: to transfer this right to the government. It's a painful, delicate question, and you don't have to hide your head in the sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u91	Let's go to the vote. Invite the deputies to the hall. Take your seats, please. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law on Registration 9676: amending some Ukrainian legislation on the placement of the National Military Memorial Cemetery. Please vote. [[13:19:27]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Now, a minute. Yeah, we'll be right there. We have a lot of options here. I'm betting on voting to send a proposal to the Main Committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Please vote. Registration number 9676: Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the location of the National Military Memorial Cemetery. Rereading the first reading. Please vote. [[13:20:26]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Registration number 9676. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[13:20:53]] For 232 Decision taken. The bill has been returned to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. The next issue is the agenda item without discussion, so let's not split up, we'll vote long enough without discussion. The following issue is the day-to-day registration number 9600: the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to support scientific work in higher education institutions. It is suggested to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. [[13:21:42]] For 266 Decision taken. Questions are included in the agenda of the day session. I propose to adopt a bill under registration number 9600, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to support scientific work in higher education institutions. Please vote. [[13:22:13]] For 269 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. The following bill, registered number 10092, is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on State summary and introductory campaigns in 2024. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. 10092. [[13:22:47]] For 281 Decision taken. The bill is included in the agenda of the day session. I propose to adopt a bill under registration number 10092 amending some of Ukraine's laws on State summary and introductory campaigns in 2024. Please vote. [[13:23:17]] For 285 Decision taken. There's a whole proposal to approve. Then let's move on to the vote. I would like to propose to the vote a proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill under registration number 10092, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on State summary certification and introductory campaign in 2024. Please vote. [[13:24:02]] For 285 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The next bill is registered. Out of procedure, please, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, very important information from Brussels. Just now, the European Commission recommended that the official report be adopted, recommending the launch of negotiations on Ukraine and Moldova’s accession to the European Union. This information was provided by President Ursula von der Layenne of the European Commission. And I want to say that this journey started 10 years ago when Yanukovic refused to sign.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u93	This is no longer a procedure, Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u94	And then Maidan's heroes actually started this way. I thank both today's Parliament and the previous Parliament for voting with you all the bills and for carrying out the tasks necessary for the historic mission of our accession to the EU. Let us welcome this important decision of Brussels and wish for the wisdom and cooperation of Ukraine to become a member of the EU and NATO. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u95	Thank you. Vlasenko is out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we all know how to read the news, and we've all read it. And so exactly, when, you know, you let, Mr. Chairman, out of the procedure of speaking, please stop the political speculation on the news we have going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u97	I started to stop as soon as I heard speculation. Thank you. Let's go to Bill 9046, second reading, revision, no one insists on what I understand. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Total General Secondary Education on Compulsory Learning Results. No one insists on editing. We can go to the vote. Then we go to the vote as a whole, in the second reading and in general. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law of Registration No. 9046 amending the Law on complete general secondary education on compulsory learning outcomes. Please vote. [[13:26:37]] For-286 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The next question is also not discussed. About the European Union? Please, Hotcharenko, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u98	Thank you very much. Colleagues, we are now looking at a block of issues related to education. And to the reporter, if we were to go to the fullest extent, there would be a national deputy, Babak. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u99	It's not a procedure, Alexei Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u100	No, I want my colleague to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u101	No, it's not a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u102	So I'm nothing, I want my colleague to say it's not him that took off the manipulation. Comrade Babak, take off your manipulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u103	Turn off the potter's microphone, please. What does this have to do with the procedure now? That's not gonna happen. Well, Alexyyyovich, let's not abuse it, please. Next question is registration number 7715: draft Decision establishing the boundaries of the city of Smil Cherkaskie district of Cherkas region. It's a long-awaited decision by braves and bolds, so we suggest that it be accepted as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. Let's give Smilli the limits are valid. [[13:28:02]] For 289 Decision taken. The decree was passed in general. Then we have a second reading, 9274. The draft Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on clarifying the powers of civil protection providers, improving legislation on the protection of the population and territories against the consequences of emergencies, organizing and evacuating populations, protecting the lives and health of citizens. We've got three minutes, Tsymbaluk, and we're going to vote. Please, Cymbaluk, three minutes. From the rostrums, yes, go ahead. Stay close.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u104	Thank you. Your Honor, the chairman, the presidency, the colleagues! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I'll be less than three minutes, please don't break up. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the head of the committee and the members of the committee for their professional work for the second reading of this bill. Together, taking into account proposals and national MPs, representatives of central executive authorities and local self - government, we were able to find consensus. We're really, with respect to the Civil Protection Officer, we're fully providing for the diet of the licensors at the expense of the state budget. It's important. It is also important that we have introduced standards that provide security on the water of citizens with the renter's bills and authorizations. This is also important. All the other issues related to improving forms and methods of control over security and civil protection during mass action in relation to the Water Code and others, we have failed. Because of this, there is an offer not to waste precious time, to go to the vote. And I ask everyone to support this bill in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u105	We'll use your offer not to waste precious time, let's go to the vote. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill under registration number 9274, a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to clarify the powers of civil protection subjects, improve legislation on the protection of the population and territories against the consequences of emergencies, organization and evacuation of the population, life and public health. Registration number 9274. Please vote. [[13:31:13]] For 269 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The next bill, as well as the second reading, 4634 is the draft Act amending article 367 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase responsibility for service negligence if it has caused the death of a person. No one's going to insist on editing. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill under registration number 4634: draft Act amending article 367 of the Criminal Code on the increase of responsibility for service negligence if it has caused the death of a person. Please vote. [[13:32:04]] For 265 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a whole. Next, 9141. We're not going to insist, are we? We'll insist. Okay. Okay, okay. Then let's move on to question 9141 of the registration number. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, to simplify the procedure for granting veteran status. We have Tsimbaluk - 3 minutes and Honcharenko - 1 minute. Okay. Please, Zimbaluk Mikhailovich - 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u106	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honourable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, People's Deputies! We thank you for finally getting this bill 9141 into the session hall. He was repeatedly reviewed by the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights. I thank the head of the task force and all the colleagues who have joined. But what does it matter? This bill, and by the way, thank you to the author of Mr. Czernjev, has managed to simplify the status of the participant in the fighting. It is very important that this bill is accompanied by others who are working in a working group that includes representatives of all factions and groups of the Supreme Council on the electronic way in which they can become members of the fighting. It's very important, my fellow officers, that we finally create the conditions that only a military officer is making a statement, a statement, everything else is done by a commander, a leader, a military commander -- part of it. Our job is to simplify the work of those leaders who are now in the zone of combat. But it doesn't. By this law we create conditions that do not run military, sorry to be recognized as a participant in combat. This is also important for the families of our combat participants, who have certain benefits regarding the teaching of children in higher education institutions, and for families about the benefits for the payout. This bill, to conclude with this bill, the Supreme Council is finally going to put a stop to the thousands of military complaints that we have been unable to make over the years, I stress that they have not been able to obtain the necessary status as part of the fighting. And we finally have to go through these bills to the next level: and what benefits the state gives, which benefits it guarantees, and what can the local budget carry out. We finally have to come forward and tell our defenders frankly: this state may, here the state guarantees, and here the state opens the way for the participants to engage in hostilities, return and demobilize, be able to associate and, indeed, work in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u107	Thank you. Hot plate, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear friends, this is a really important and necessary bill and I urge everyone to support it. But at the same time, I'm asking you to support my amendment to it, number seven, which provides for the automatic granting of the status of a participant in combat. It's right that we're making it easier to get this status. Well, it's a shame that we have people per year, after a year and a year and a half, they can't get a simple document from the state, the simplest. But not only does it need to be relieved, it needs to be said that there is only one statement to be written by the military. Why does the military have to write any statements? Is it hard to write it automatically? The man is in the war log, the man has been, God forbid, injured, hurt -- automatically give the status of a participant in combat, send everything, you're a participant in combat, the state thanks you, you've got the right benefits. Colleagues, support the 7rd edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u109	You're going to put it on, is that what you're going to do? Wait. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u110	Good afternoon, fellow workers, the working groups had all the regulations and suggestions that had come from the Ukrainian national deputies. The working group was co-chaired by a representative of Eurosolidarity. And it was decided that the application was not supported. Because we have the 13 and 17 licenses, and they're offering. more effective is the simplified procedure for granting the status of war veterans and which are more precisely in line with the principles of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Public (Electronic Public) Services. Thus, such a decision was made.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u111	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the national MP Hotcharenko to take into account the number 7 of his authorship. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:38:12]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And one minute is Draft, and we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u112	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's really even a mature bill that has to be voted on or voted on, I think, a year ago, or maybe earlier. Because we're actually changing the process of becoming a fighter now, we're simplifying it considerably so that the trench fighter doesn't collect his papers or papers and submit them to a state that has all these documents about him, and the state itself has created, collected all the documents and made almost automatically the status of a participant in the fighting. We're also working on automation, and there's work in the Department of Veterans, and even in this law, there's "Final Positions" that say exactly what needs to be semi-automatic after all, because there has to be an agreement to get personal data from a person, and an agreement to get it in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u113	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I'm betting on a vote to accept in general with the necessary technical law. In the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, bill under registration number 9141, draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, simplifying the procedure for granting veteran status. Please vote. [[13:40:06]] For 278 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Dear colleagues, the following two questions are also united, but we will have presentations by the two authors as well as by the committee. I propose authors first, and then the committee, and then the discussion. So let's move on to the agenda item with the registration numbers: 10062 and 9681, 9681-1. I propose to include a bill with registration number 10062 in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:40:55]] For 273 Decision taken. The bill is included in the agenda of the day session. I also propose to include in the agenda of the day a bill with registration number 9681 and an alternative to it 9681-1. Please vote. [[13:41:24]] For 275 Decision taken. The bill is included in the agenda of the day session. I would like to consider these questions in a simplified manner. [[13:41:45]] For 232 Decision taken. The text is given to the author of the bill with registration number 10062 of the Arahamaiah of David Georgiyovich. Please, behind the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u114	Colleagues, this bill is about how to repay our fighters who are now defending our state. We have a really critical situation, out of over a million people, think about it, over a million people who are now defending our nation have only got a 15 percent witness. Why? Because the procedure is bureaucratic, because you have to go through seven cycles of hell to get it all. We worked on our working group to decide among all the factions that allow first to issue, and vice versa, to change the order completely and electronically in fact, if a person was at least one day on the front, so now the order itself is written, and defended the state, was given these 100,000 battles, that is, a financial element of control, that means that they automatically have the right to get UBB. And we turned the order completely upside down there, and we drafted a bill. There is another bill, followed by Petra Alexiyovich, author, 9681. They're partially duplicated. We've decided that now Law 10062 is going to be our basis as a mother, we're going to vote both laws in the first reading, and we're going to work together with our working group to actually combine two initiatives. There's a warning one, there's a reference in our law to the voter register in order to avoid any manipulation, that it's some kind of electoral preparation and all that, we're going to work together between the first and the second and we're going to solve this issue jointly between all the factions. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u115	Thank you. Yes, now the authors of the following bill, Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko. And there, Galina Mikolayevna, you'll speak your way, too, won't you? Please, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, 3 minutes, please, from the authors, 9681.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u116	Dear friends, there was a conflict this morning when we were going not to vote for the first bill, you were going not to vote for ours. And this is an example of the unity and responsibility of Parliament, when we find arguments, we find mechanisms, and we do everything to accelerate, to resolve the issue of UBB. What kind of order is there now? Circles of hell. We're going to make individual orders, the battalion commander, then the brigade commander, then the completion, the paperwork, then the commission, then everything to testify: the warrior is fighting, taking part in the fighting and protecting Ukraine. In the task force, I have proposed a fundamentally different solution: automatically, without bureaucratic procedure, according to the brigade commander, only those who are committed to fighting, we now include on the list, imagine, 850,000 Ukrainian military personnel who are entitled to it. You don't have to stand in line for paperwork, enough QR code, and the children of a military officer can use the benefits when entering higher education institutions. Questions on municipal tariffs, questions will be solved automatically. And that's why I welcome today's proposal. Please support in the first reading my, our, "European Solidarity", bill. And on the second reading, we share, where there will be no suspicion of participation in elections and other things, we will resolve the issue of the soldiers of Ukraine. Thank you. And I'm counting on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u117	From the authors of the alternate Galina Mikolayevna Trelyyakowa, please. 9681-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u118	Thank you for your word. I am addressing the entire room, and I am very much asking for the question of the appointment of a member of the fighting party not to become part of the political conjuncture. It's actually a bill. In general, the experience of a combat participant, and we have a situation quite unique enough, has to be clearly fixed, primarily by those on reserve, and that's what both the Department of Veterans and the Ministry of Defense are saying. And that means those in reserve. We have those who have acquired status and have the experience of a participant in hostilities, now active military personnel, and therefore the basic register set out in the alternative bill, and this experience must be taken into account in the register of military personnel. That's exactly what the PNB says when it suggested to the committee that the alternative bill should be based on a register of military personnel where this experience should be recorded. Why is there no record of wartime participants in the Department of Veterans today? Because this information has to be classified, this has been repeatedly pointed out to us by the minister of veterans, that this information should not be available. And above all, the one who is now a military man, and the one who has the status as a military officer, his family should not be discriminated against, but rather so. to pay the same benefits that are granted to participants in combat activities that are not military personnel. Today, this situation is not settled. I would like to ask the authors who will be working on the bill to take into account the alternative proposals that were in the alternative bill. In fact, the speed of enacting laws and introducing at least three laws on the status of a participant in hostilities today is in some sense political chaos, and we in this political chaos, in the committees working on these bills, need to make a system. And in the end, I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u119	Now from the committees or not. Yes, Mariana Volodymyrical Bezugla and then Ostapenko. Yes, please. It's from the National Security and Defence Committee, where Bill 10062 is. Please, Toothless.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u120	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to read the committee's decision, and it's all about the bills, and it's about the work that was done by the interfractional working group. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Law of Ukraine be included under registration number 10062 in the agenda of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. In accordance with article 101 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the draft Law 10062 is considered urgent and shortens the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills by half. As a result of the first reading of the draft Law, the registration number 10062 was adopted on the basis of such proposals made by the committee. First. Paragraph 4 of paragraph 5 of section 1 of the bill is deleted. In paragraph 3, paragraph 1, of section I of the bill, the word and the figure "aged 17" should be replaced by the words "aged 18". Instruct the committee to work on the proposed bill, including amendments and proposals by legal entities, by shortening the deadline for the submission of such amendments and proposals by half, and by introducing it for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u121	Please, Ostapenko Anatoly from the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u122	On October 3, 2023, Bills 9681 and 9681-1 were discussed on the committee. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights endorsed the conclusion and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft laws on the status of war veterans, guaranteeing their social protection for the digitization of the status of a wartime participant in conditions of war to be included in the agenda of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call and following a first-reading review to return the authors to work and create a working group from the drafting of the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u123	Please write two in a row, two in a row, from factions and groups. Please, Laba, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u124	Please pass the word to the Venezuelan Fedor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u125	Please, Feder Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, these bills, which have just been presented, they are doing a very important task of taking into account the maximum interest of military personnel and ensuring that they realize their rights without any bureaucratic obstacles. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, by these laws, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is in fact introducing a very important approach to obtaining Ukrainian citizens, in this case military officials, those benefits, guarantees and, above all, the realization of the rights they deserve, not because they should come to fill out documents, stand in line and then get a document confirming their status, but because the State is proactive in the provision of social guarantees and in the realization of constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. The proactiveity of the state position is that the state itself determines when a person is entitled to a special status and it releases this person from the need to knock on the door, knock on the door, stand in line, and so forth. This pro-activities of the state, to my profound conviction, today, which I believe will be established, must become such a mainstream for the further activity of the State in the field of constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. So, back to the substance of these bills, they're aimed at simplifying the process of getting a fighter involved, simplifying the procedure for entering information into the various databases that the state is implementing regarding the calculation of military personnel. And so I urge everyone to support these bills, to work on them for second reading and to pay due respect to our armies and ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u127	Thank you. Please, European Solidarity, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u128	Dear Ukrainians, if a soldier is a man or a woman carrying out war tasks, they are part of the fighting. And that is not fair when it takes months to collect demeaning papers to gain that status. There are excruciating instances where it is impossible today to collect such documents about those soldiers who are in captivity. And the families of the prisoners of war complain to us that they are getting paid, but their relatives, their heroes have no status. This is unacceptable! This is our task with you long ago to enact a law to automatically obtain a participant in this status at the command of a combat commander. And I think that's the main vote today for Parliament. We really have to adopt two bills, and 10062, and 9681, to make a perfect bill on their second reading, because 10062 binds the status to a voter register that does not actually exist. And the leadership of the electoral commission admits today that in order to include the voter register, it will take another six months to improve it. We really don't want the status of a participant in combat to come back months later, as it is now with the failure to implement our actual payout bill. That's why we vote, colleagues, two bills. The second-reading working group is sending them away to make it fair, automatic, no corruption, and only those heroes and heroes who are now on the front line doing battle tasks. We should have done it a long time ago. Let's adopt these bills today, and by the end of November in the second reading, let's vote for the automatic acquisition of a fighter by our heroes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u129	Please, Sobolev, Fatherland, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u130	Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u131	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u132	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, seven rounds of hell needs to go through today's participants in combat to prove that there is a long-standing de facto. Family. Children enter higher educational institutions, their parents serve at an advanced school, and their children are forced to pay, more loyally, their parents for their education. Although legally they have the benefit and it is not formed. These bills have finally come to an end. And it's very important that all the authors find common ground. On the second reading, we're going to take a rational grain of two more and make a bill that, I'm sure, will become the law that will complete this walk on the torture of our military. Next. It's very important to finally get the register of data, because there's a discussion about whether all the data that the authors are offering is needed for a particular military, for this database, and how it's going to be protected. We do not forget that these people and their families are in danger as long as the war continues. Next thing. Dear colleagues, we have to take all the proposals into account so that the bill is balanced so that we don't look again for what we need. The working group was represented, talked here, all the factions and groups and all the defense forces. Because of this, it is a guarantee of what it will work. We vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u133	Is there anything else we can do to get to the vote? Then we ask to take our seats, and we move on to the vote. First, we vote on Bill 10062. I am betting on the vote to adopt a proposal based on the committee's proposals for a bill under registration number 10062, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to improve the processing and use of data in state registers for military accounting and the status of war veterans during the war. Please vote. [[13:59:05]] For 295 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. I propose to cut the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of the bill. It's you. Oh, that's not your committee. [[13:59:32]] For 278 Decision taken. Please, Gerasimov, from the procedure. Listen, please, there's a compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, a great request during the vote of Bill No. 9681, which we will now vote on, because we have just spoken with the leaders of the "Serve of the People" faction, the first vote of the committee's decision regarding the recasting, please do not support it, and the second vote will support this bill as a basis. I will be grateful to anyone who does so. After that, all the agreements that we have reached will be implemented and a very quality unified UCD bill will be produced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u135	Okay. I bet the vote on the proposal to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative to draft a bill under registration number 9681. I have to make this proposal about first. on the amendment to the Ukrainian Act on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, on the digitization of the status of a wartime participant. Please vote. [[14:01:00]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next is my decision to make as a basis. There's no committee proposal, is there? Or were they there? How did your decision come about? It's simple, isn't it? No, with suggestions? Oh, you did. All right, I get it, all right. This is not your committee, Mariana. No, it's not your committee. No, it's 9681, it's not your committee anymore. Yeah, yeah. Well, there are other committees in the Supreme Council besides the Security Committee. I would like to propose a bill on the basis of registration number 9681, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian War Veterans Status Act, guaranteeing their social protection, on the digitisation of the status of a wartime participant. Please vote. [[2:02:22]] For 288 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. The next bill, 9310, is a second reading, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons on certain issues of housing security for internally displaced persons. Will anyone insist on the performances? Let's go. The potter is one minute and we're going to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u136	Thank you. An important bill, my friends, and actually I want to say, we have today a catastrophic situation for internally displaced persons from occupied areas. Today there's a government program, where destroyed housing or severely damaged, but in a controlled area, there's a program, how to go, what to do, maybe not everything is perfect, but there's a way. Unfortunately, when it comes to people from Mariupol, Bahmut, North London, the ones who are, unfortunately, occupied, the situation is much more complicated. There's no normal way, these people can't find where they live, it's very expensive for them to take their place off, it's all turning into, well, crazy and terrible suffering. I realize it's not that simple, I realize it's a very big question, but we have to decide, we have to talk about it in the Supreme Council, we have to at least draw them some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u137	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Get ready, please. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill under registration number 9310 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons on certain issues of the provision of internally displaced persons with housing for temporary residence. Please vote. [[14:04:32]] For 285 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a whole. The bill on registration number 9568, the draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on clarifying the activities of the Ukrainian Institute of Books with the support of publishers and the granting of a certificate for the purchase of books. We agreed not to discuss it, so I suggest we proceed to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of registration number 9568, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to clarify the activities of the Ukrainian Institute of Books to support the distribution of publications and to provide a certificate for the purchase of books. Please vote. [[14:05:25]] For 271 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. The next bill, registered number 9111 (second reading), is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to simplify the import, accounting and distribution of humanitarian aid. We had someone from Homeland. What? The whole book? We're in this one. They didn't come in. Okay. Then let us accept the book as a whole. I would like to propose to the vote a bill with the necessary technical and legal amendments to the second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill on registration number 9568 of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to clarify the activities of the Ukrainian Institute of Law in support of the distribution of publications and the issue of a certificate for the acquisition of books. Please vote. [[14:06:35]] For 272 The bill was adopted as a whole. And now 9111. We had Fatherland. Oh, no? Yeah, Honcharenko, Jujanina, three repairs. Please, two minutes, Hotcharyenko, let's get started.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear friends, the bill is important for simplifying the import, accounting, and distribution of humanitarian aid. We have a very bad decision from the Cabinet of Ministers in September that starts to work in this part of December 1, which is a very, very complicated process of importing humanitarian aid into Ukraine. This applies even to humanitarian and military assistance. Today, the whole country is volunteering, it's holding on to the blood-voluntary, it's holding on to the "minvoluntary." We're all volunteers. I could say, "Honcharenko Center" is Ukraine's largest network of educational non-state cultural centres, and we're volunteering, like everyone else, we're a drop in the Ukrainian volunteer ocean. 76 cars, 24 anti-drone rifles, dozens of drones, hundreds of raids, even a self-propelled artillery plant called the Ironworks, because the gun told us that we were going to meet them with flowers in our hands. That's how we need to help, volunteers, not put sticks in our wheels. What are we doing? What our government thought there when it made such a system impossible to pass. Well, we'll take it from you. Today you've taken the funds from the local government to help the military. Let's take away the opportunity of volunteers to bring in military support. What are we doing? And at the same time, we say, we believe in victory. That's the way to work, and at least not to get in the way. Doctor's first order: non-nighter, no harm. You can't do anything good, so don't hurt yourself. And we've got some kind of damage. So, my friends, an important bill, now my colleague, Eugene, is going to apply, we need to simplify, simplify the system. Part of my revisions are taken into account, but not entirely. So, guys, let's just say goodbye, let's help the volunteers, not bother them, because they're holding on to them today more honestly than we are with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u139	Are you going to put any edits on? Eugene, please. Nina Petrovna Jujanina, three papers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u140	65 revisions. Dear colleagues, with great respect to those colleagues who are engaged in humanitarian work and are actively involved in the development of projects and regulations, but you missed one moment. Following a report by the TSC, which was involved in the study of the abuse of the import of a humanitarian woman, a number of errands were given, the Kabminu ruling, which establishes a new order for the import of a humanitarian woman — Cabinet Regulation 953, of December 1, which not only complicates but makes it impossible to import a humanitarian woman into small or single volunteers. Because the whole customs-related process is fully in line with the clearance procedures on general grounds. The complication is that each batch of goods must be registered by the recipient before importing it into Ukraine and receiving a special identification number in this system in order to further import the humanitarianist in Ukraine. I'm surprised we're on this level.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u141	Committee position, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Nina, I thank you for the principle where you always approach any bill. I want to emphasize once again that at the working group meeting we had almost 200 permanent participants and representatives of volunteer social organizations, the central executive authorities. Our job was real, as colleague Honcharenko said, to really simplify the system, not what the Cabinet of Ministers has done now, and you know it. 65 Mr. Gritchcock's ruling, she says that during a period of military emergency under the decision of Kabmin, there is a simplified procedure for recognition of humanitarian aid on a declaratory basis -- what is now -- without making the appropriate decision of the specially authorized state aid authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u143	I understand that, Nina Petrovna, you're suggesting that we put three warrants for confirmation. Let's go after them every now and then. 65 Amendment of the People's Deputy Grishuk. Partially counted. Nina Petrovna Jujanina proposes that she be put on the stand for confirmation. I'm putting it on the committee's record, just like the committee counted it. I propose a vote. Let's go to the vote. Please vote: 65 revisions to the committee, partially counted. Please vote. [[14:12:35]] For 241 Decision taken. This is left to be counted in the Committee's editor. The next 66 edits. So it's counted. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, I certainly don't want to deny that you've worked. But which one of you has taken away the 953 Kabmin Order? Nobody. And the 200 people who took part didn't even know that because of simplification they accepted the complications because they gave all the opportunities for the Cabinet of Ministers. And in the long run, in order to eliminate the abuse of humanity, which is actually done by the Minospolytics, they have put out procedures that are consistent with the Customs Code. And it's also complicated by the fact that a humanitarian can never write the product clearly before it's imported. So if you left 174 of the Order that works today, I'd agree with you, but there's a new one that goes into effect on December 1st, and it's made on the basis of this law that they've been waiting for, because they don't now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u145	I'm betting on the vote on Nina Petrovna's proposal to confirm the license number 66 of the people's deputies of the Third and other members of the committee, that's the committee's bill. It's fully accounted for. Please vote. Confirm number 66. [[14:14:18]] For 240 Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. And 76th. Show the factions, please. And the 76th edition of Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluka. She's a committee member. Nina Petrovna also suggests that she be put to the test. Please, Eugene, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u146	Mr. Michael, I'm sure if you feel what's going to happen on December 1, you'll remember me. But what about this amendment? Once again, it says "car import," and it's Mr. Mikhailo who adds that when transport is imported, it becomes the recipient status of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defense, the DSNS -- all of whom you're bringing in these means of transport. Thus, the recipients of a car should receive a unique number in the electronic system so that the car can drive. Volunteers, how can you import cars that should already be accepted by the recipient, which will then give you this number for import and customs procedures? I. On cars, it's enough without this amendment of this bill. Mr. Michael, please don't make terrible mistakes right now, because we can't fix them. I'll remind you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u147	The committee’s answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. In fact, with regard to this amendment, it was prepared as a result of the work of our group at the suggestion and volunteers, and of the central executive bodies that are the acquirers of transport assets. Again. With regard to the previous law, once this law has been passed, the government will be obliged to draw up other regulations on the basis of this law. And that determination you're talking about is not going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u149	Let's go to the vote. Nina Petrovna Jujanin suggests that the number 76 of the Zimmerluq National MP be confirmed. It's counted by the committee. Please vote. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. [[14:16:43]] For 243 Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. We're done. So, Mikhail Mikhailovich, are you going to say anything?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u150	Yes, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u151	How much do you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u152	Give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u153	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u155	Two minutes is the zymbaluk and we're going to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u156	Thank you. The honourable chairman and honourable colleagues, in fact, I would like to begin with the fact that this bill of the People's Deputy Gritchcock and others was born not easy. Most of the proposals were made by those who, during the difficult period since 2014, and then from February 2022, the first started to work, filling in those gaps that the State had not, unfortunately, made. Because of this, it was written by the members of civil society who were involved in the work of our working group, and it was due to the birth of some of the remedies that we talked about today. In fact, it is not ideal because time requires both new challenges and changes. But once again, the task of this bill is to put an end to the self-government and insolence that the Cabinet of Ministers is carrying out with the hands of some ministries. The task of this law is to set a framework for them, and the Cabinet's rulings, by the way, mentioned here by colleagues, were written, excuse me, from the ceiling by those bureaucrats who put sticks in those difficult processes, but in which they have to move and spin. As a result, once again, we were ready for discussion and they lasted, so for so long we were on the committee of our working groups. Roman Gritchuk, as far as I know, was talking to everyone. Because if something's wrong, I don't think so, because consensus has been found. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u157	Gerasimov is 1 minute after 82.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u158	Alexander Sergiyovich, you don't have to put her to a vote. But, colleagues, "European Solidarity" is going to support this bill during the vote, because there's really a lot of normal rules about simplifying volunteer activity. But during the discussion, we raised problems that, unfortunately, under the roof of this softening, the authorities and the Cabinet of Ministers want to carry out this relief. That is why you will remember in a month when these real problems begin. And we immediately urge the drafting of this bill together so that when problems arise, this bill will be passed into this room on the issues raised by my colleague, Eugene, and corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u159	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. For reasons of interest, Sergey Vladislavovich, please. There could be motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u160	Sergei Vladislavovich, he was Sobolev, not Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u161	Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, I said so. You're used to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u162	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I think everyone understands that if we continue to act and the decision that comes from December 1st, whatever things we take, then the government will twist the hands of the volunteers. That is why we will have a government day in the near future. I have a request to immediately invite the responsible person here, and perhaps it should be the Prime Minister, who in this sessional room must confirm that this order is being repealed and a new decree will be drawn up on the basis of this law. That would be the answer to civil society, and to us, the national MPs. And the request of Parliament’s leadership to ensure that the Prime Minister comes with this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-11-08-m0.u163	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical legal amendments, a bill with registration number 9111, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to simplify the import, accounting and distribution of humanitarian aid. Please vote. [[14:21:58]] For 268. Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a whole. Next, also second reading, 9287. I take it no one insists on the papers in particular. Then let's move on to question 9287. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the order of adoption of an inheritance. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law with registration number 9287, amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the order of adoption of an inheritance. Please vote. [[14:22:45]] For 272 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a whole. Next bill with registration number 9288. Also, no one insists on readings. We'll go straight to the vote. Draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine to improve the order of adoption of an inheritance. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill with registration number 9288, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Civil Code on improving the order of acceptance of an inheritance. Please vote. [[14:23:27]] For 270. Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a whole. And Bill 9666, second reading. Draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the totality of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information in Ukraine. No one's insisting on the papers. Let's go to the vote. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill under (registration number 9666) of the bill amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the totality of the State Special Liaison and Information Protection Service. Please vote. [[14:24:16]] For 259. Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a whole. Dear colleagues, we have another organizational issue. As we are about to go into a question that may contain potentially many rights, the budget committee requests that they be given permission in parallel with this to hold their 2024 budget, which we will accept tomorrow. Therefore, according to part four of article 9 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the committees may hold their meetings at the same time as the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council only by procedural decision of the Supreme Council. I am voting on a procedural decision to hold today's meeting of the Committee on Budget Affairs to address the urgent issues of the agenda during the plenary session. Please vote. That's 150 votes. Please vote. [[14:25:13]] For 226 Decision taken. We can hold a committee. And we're going to go to questions as well. And one announcement we have, it's been waiting for a long time. An interfractional parliamentary association called Volunteer Support has been created. The heads of the National Deputies of Ukraine, Zuba Valery Alexiyyovich and Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, are elected, and we welcome them. And ask questions. Don't go away, please. Ask the President. [[B in m in s a l in]] An alarm? Then, according to the places on the scheme, colleagues request everyone to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is located in the workplace of each of you. The agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. I'm calling a recess at our plenary meeting. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We continue to work to win. Glory to Ukraine!
