ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in conditions of martial law" today we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I point out that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to abide by the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. According to parliamentary tradition, honourable colleagues, I propose to begin the work of performing the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear national MPs, the heroic opposition of our state to the widespread criminal aggression of the Russian Federation has lasted almost 19 months. On the International Day of Peace, it's obvious that the terrorist state has demonstrated its inhumane nature. Thus this morning, the peaceful cities of Kiev, Kharkiv, Cherkasy, Herson, and other settlements were hit by massive rocket strikes. As a result, many victims, including children, are killed. We show compassion to all our family members and loved ones who have died, and we want to heal the victims as soon as possible. All those involved in these and other crimes against Ukraine will certainly be held accountable. At great cost, the Ukrainian people liberate their homelands, protect democratic values, defend European and Euro-Atlantic choices. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the eternal memory of the defenders and protectors who laid their lives for the bright future of the Ukrainian State. We also honor the memory of all the innocent victims who died at the hands of Russian terrorists. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, the day of the city marks one of the oldest cities in Ukraine: the hero city, the great and firm Chernig. We welcome our fellow countrymen to the day of the city. We wish them goodness, endurance, and the quickest victory of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Marian Bogdanovich Zablocksky, "Serve of the People". Let's say hello. And so is Annie Romanovna Sowsun, Voice. Let's say hello. Welcome to the nominees. [[Applause]] We want strong health, fruitful work, and new perfections, and as soon as possible victory. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes' time to the daytime affairs of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. I'm asking representatives of the MPs and groups to sign up. The word is given to Alexander Sergiyyovich Koltunović, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u2	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! You know what. Notice, however, that such an international organization is a very authoritative USAID. If you look at the form of this organization, it says: from the American people. Not from the President, not from Congress, but from the American people. That is to say, we need to choose such a principle today so that, by uniting the nation, we can say that everything is done both for the Armed Forces and for our pensioners and for all to be done by the Ukrainian people. I think it would be a very positive moment for us to take this practice, which is a very positive, American practice, into our present. If you look at the challenges that we face today, right now there is no Galina Mikolayevna, but I would very much like the Committee of Social Policy to speed up the consideration of the bill now and still bring it into the agenda of the day to make changes to the Employment Act of Ukraine, to pass on the functions of the social payments to the Pension Fund of Ukraine, and to the individual service, the State Employment Service, to make it a powerful state authority, the central executive body of the people. This will allow us to prepare quickly for the future. And the future awaits us, I'm sure it will be the next. The first is the victory of Ukraine. As soon as Ukraine's victory comes, I think it will be as soon as possible, we need to see today that we have to get the Ukrainians back from abroad, so we need to organize jobs. We're going to need veterans back from the front, and we're going to appreciate that this is about half a million of our citizens, our soldiers, our heroes, we're going to have to provide a social package and rehabilitation, a psychological, medical rehabilitation, an organization of jobs. That employment service that exists today in the 2007 model, it can't provide either methodology or all of these other things, and we need, knowing that, to be prepared. Just like today, the questions that worry veterans. Now, look, why don't we have a national program for the comprehensive rehabilitation of veterans today, why? And we know that this is going to be, that our veterans, these half a million of our citizens, are going to have to provide public services. We need to provide them with both a decent life and a decent life, and a decent level of wage. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u3	The word is given to the national deputy, Vátrovitch Volodymyr Mihajlovich. I understand that, Petra Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, it is a pity that so few deputies are in the hall, because the main task of our Supreme Council is to do three things. The first is the legislative provision of our victory, the second is parliamentary diplomacy, the third, or perhaps the first, is the assistance of the army. And that's what I want to talk to you about today. Yesterday morning, I returned from the front line, had the opportunity to communicate with the commanders of the brigades and battalions. I would like to point out that the issue of the ability of the brigades to have access to the resources of local budgets is fundamentally important, quickly and effectively to solve these problems. And unfortunately, yesterday we voted, you voted 236 votes, you take this money into local self-government, you take it to the military, and you pass it on to some ephemeral programs, where they know better where to buy eggs at 17, where to buy jackets at triple cost, and how to distribute a huge amount of previous pay at the beginning of the massive aggression. I ask the second reading to gather together a working group, to concentrate this money exclusively on providing teams with permanent locations, to ensure effective control of this money, and to protect local self-government and decentralization. And the second position, the position of the participants in the fighting. There's nothing more important now than protecting our warriors. Once again, we have the U.B.D. Bill at the end, the bill of my authorship is not even considered by the committee. And I emphasize that, rather than demeaning our warriors, we need to raise the issue of justice, because they don't need them, it's our obligation to provide them with legislative protection so that they can protect their families, protect the families of the dead. And today, to consider this bill, without confusing it with the formation of different registers, by trying to make it easier for the elections to take place. Because the goal of Ukraine today is to win the war against Putin and against Russia, not to win the elections, as some try to use every bill here. We need to look at the UBD, we need to form a working group on the VAT bill, leave and protect the soldiers, and local self-government. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u5	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy of road Andriy Viktorovich. I understand there's gonna be a transmission. Please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u6	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Today, according to the decision of the UN General Assembly, International Day of Peace. And this morning, for our nation, it became the morning when a terrorist state, an aggressor state of the Russian Federation, who is present in the UN's right to veto, attacked civilians, peaceful cities, civilian infrastructure. Today the missiles, the Shahedes and other weapons of murder have arrived in Kiev, Kharkiv, Raven, Herson, Cherkaščina, Lvivščina, Hmělničina, our peaceful cities. And this is happening on the day of the 78th General Assembly of the United Nations. A course that was built after World War II to make it impossible and avoid future such wars, such terrible aggression that is taking place in Ukraine today. Unfortunately, as a nation we've been talking about for a year and a half, the UN has become the League of Nations, its predecessor, who has not been able to stop and warn of World War II. And today our President also presented to the UN General Assembly in his speech, at UN Radbez, the Ukrainian formula for peace, which has already been supported by over 140 countries on a ten-point issue of the Peace formula. We have to stop the nuclear blackmail, the artificial food crisis, the deportation of children, the ecocid, we have to stop it, and 140 countries in the world today support us. Moreover, the UN General Assembly and the UN Hensek itself and the EU High Representative Borrell and Foreign Minister Berbok confirmed that the UN cannot exist in the format it is now. That is why we must do everything today to ensure that the Peace formula of Vladimir Zelensky, which is proposed by the world before a broad discussion, is implemented as one based on the UN Statute, on decisions. Resolutions of the UN General Assembly, and, above all, of international law. This should be the basis for a new world security architecture. A country that is an aggressor, a country that commits genocide, cannot be a member of the UN Radbez and have a veto. And, of course, today we support the proposals made by a number of world leaders to reform the UN's Radrez as not just a high rostrum that has turned for beautiful performances today, but as a tool for ending wars and, above all, their warnings. That's why we support the United Nations and the African Union, and the expansion of Asia, and the Islamic world, which is missing, and Latin America, and the Pacific. And the aggressor country should be deprived of the veto. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u7	The word is given to People's Deputy Mejalik Viktor Nichiporovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u8	Tell Taras Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u9	Taras Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Ukraine is in a state of full - scale war if someone forgets or does not feel it. Against this background, we are deeply concerned about not the complementary dialogue that is taking place between us and our Polish partners. Poles for us are not just neighbors, they're not just the largest military hub that provides the army with the left side of international technical assistance, they're our strategic ally with which we've developed the topic of Mizmura, the topic of geopolitical reinforcement of Ukraine's positions, and finally the preservation of Ukraine as a state. What we hear today is no door to climb. No election campaign can justify a rhetoric that can undermine our trust. But so do we. Colleagues, have we just gone through a hot phase of war? Our fellow citizens have returned from abroad, including from Poland? Should we remind ourselves of the tragic events of 1918-1919? The loss of such an international partner can be disastrous to our struggle with a Russian aggressor. I want all of us to remember this at all levels of power. So once and for all, Polish denials must be heard — for our freedom and for your freedom. We also remember the conviction of the important good neighborhood of the unforgettable Gedroitsa, Jacek Kuronya, Zgniew Bzezinsky, that there will be no really free Poles without free Ukrainians, there can be no free Poland without free Ukraine, there can be no independent Ukraine without independent Poland. Fighting a Russian aggressor is a common struggle between Ukrainians and Poles and Poles, obviously understood as no one else in the last few hundred years. Even EU countries are at conflict with each other, sometimes very harshly. But when it comes to geopolitical and security issues, there's a completely different logic. We are destined to have a good relationship with the Poles. Ukrainians and Poles are too close to the totalitarian savage regime, and while the common enemy is, let's forget about any contradiction. That is why we would like to hear in Parliament information on specific issues of the agar sector, perhaps from the minister of the agro-industry complex of Mr. Solski, perhaps from the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Let's re-establish an hour of government where we can ask specific questions. Parliament should be actively involved in cementing high trust between our countries. Let Poland live! And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u11	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, the "Fatherland" faction. Before Julia Volodymyrna goes, dear colleagues, the three factions have not signed up, please provide information on who will speak. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u12	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I just might want to give you information that we've been around for about a year now, our team, we're going to hospitals where our wounded are being treated, and hospitals where we're handing over medical equipment, drugs, waste materials, building materials -- everything we need to treat our wounded in better conditions. But I would like to ask you now, dear national MPs, to pay particular attention to the fact that our injuries are being treated under insufficient conditions, they are being treated for money that is not enough, they are being treated in hospitals where there is not enough medical equipment. They are treated on condition that the uncorrected medical protocols that ensure that their treatment is properly financed, and they are treated under conditions where Nazcalek on medical devices is not complemented by drugs that can treat our wounded effectively. I don't think there's any more debt in this Parliament than the debt to our heroes, the heroes who went to the front of their lives to cover our lives, to protect, to protect Ukraine. And there can be no one in the country who lacks attention, money or anything else to treat them with dignity. And I can't understand the indifference that prevails in all the corridors of power today in all the power offices in terms of how our wounded are treated and under what conditions. And so I insist, just insist that today's decision be made, a draft decision to create a temporary commission of inquiry that can examine the conditions under which our wounded are being treated, whether there is money available for their treatment, whether costs are being fully covered, or medicines that are worthy, the best, they are being treated, and whether the prosthetics they are buying are at the level of higher world standards. I'm surprised that with the profile committee supporting the establishment of such a temporary commission of inquiry, supported and all the factions have given their representatives, it's not in the order of the day for this particular decision to happen again. I urge you to accept this decision and move on to a detailed real job of protecting and treating our wounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u13	Please, Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, "Trust". Please give your representatives to other factions and groups that have not yet spoken. Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished nationals, dear Ukrainians! I welcome all of us, in fact, to the day of peace. As the ancient proverb says, peace must be gained, the one who takes the sword will perish by the sword. For we, the Ukrainians, are a strong nation, and among us are the bravest ones, those who, in fact, choose this peace for us at the cost of their health, which is worse. This peace is not just for us Ukrainians, but for our neighbors and for all of Europe. Therefore, it is clear that the one who chooses by day and by blood this peace is our warrior. It must be provided and protected, and it must be protected in the way that we can. Clearly, we need the funds to provide our soldier with the necessary resources to win and to consolidate peace in Ukraine and the world. And of course, we need to protect the soldier and his family so that he understands that the state cares for his family as long as he wins. So again, I want to highlight the subject of taxes on the salaries of our military personnel. I want to emphasize that we need to find the right balance in order for most of this money to go to provide for a soldier, and a small portion of the funds remain in the community to ensure the normal life of our warrior's family. It's a normal treatment, it's a normal education, it's a normal culture, because it's for Ukrainian culture, it's for Ukrainian language, it's for Ukrainian education, it's for Ukrainian peace, and it's for this soldier. So notice, think about it, and we'll find the right balance in the distribution of the military PDF. It's very, very important. It's just as important, because not all the money we're going to get from our partners, and that's understandable. But we thank our partners, starting with our neighbours in Poland and all of Europe, all the international partners for the help they are providing to the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian soldier for peace in Ukraine and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u15	Thank you, Pavel Andryovich. Dear colleagues, the Redemption Group and the Voice faction. You don't want to come forward, do you, colleagues? There's no wish. Then, dear colleagues, the time for performances is exhausted. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable members of the People’s Republic of Ukraine are invited to make a signal vote prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. I remind you, you have to hold the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, please prepare. I ask you to take part in the signal vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:32:12]] For-147 7-against, 1- contained. Dear colleagues, once again, I appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, the list of questions you have been asked. which was previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, you were given. Dear colleagues, before we go to his consideration, I'm going to ask the faction leaders and groups to join the presidency for five to ten minutes, because today is a difficult day to agree on some nuances. Please take a little break. And I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats, because we're going to finish a little meeting and we're going to get right to the day-to-day issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your jobs. I thank you, there's been a little technical break that we've been having with factions and groups, and we can move on to the agenda. Let us now consider some of the questions that you are about to consider. And so, first question. The first bill is a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international organizations, parliamentary assemblies, governments and parliaments of foreign states in connection with the holding by the Russian Federation of illegal elections in the temporarily occupied territories of Donetské, Lugansk, Zaporzik and Herson regions of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol (registration number of draft regulation 10054). I'm making an offer. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[10:40:58]] For 265 Decision taken. I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner and ask the people's deputies to vote. [[10:41:20]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Parliamentary Cooperation, Alexander Alexandrovitch Network. Because he's both from the authors and from the committee is four minutes. Please. Please, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, today we are considering a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international organizations, parliamentary assemblies, governments and parliaments of foreign states in connection with the holding of the Russian Federation of illegal elections in the temporarily occupied territories of Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporezki and Hersonian regions of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. The draft decision was made by members of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation in response to the need to react to the Russian Supreme Council on September 8-10, 2023, by the Russian Federation of Illicit Elections in Interimly Occupied Areas of Ukraine. The purpose of the draft decision is to appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international partners to condemn the holding by the aggressor State of illegal elections in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. It is illegal for all the authorities of the Russian Federation to recognize all the levels elected during the illegal elections in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetské, Luhanské, Zaporozky and Herson regions of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Increase the emergency pressure on the Russian Federation and directly those involved in organizing and holding illegal elections, etc. The Committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision on the basis and in general and to approve the application for technical and legal rights. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear friends, I ask you to sign up from factions and groups: two for, two for, and two for the discussion of this draft decision. Please. Please give Heratchenko to Irina Volodymyrni, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I think we have all listened carefully to the debate at the UN Genoa and the UN Security Council on the war that the Russian Federation waged against Ukraine. Regrettably, then, the topic of the illegal elections organized by the Russian Federation in the occupied territories did not sound at all. So today's vote for this decision, which is co-authored by me and the representatives of European Solidarity, is extremely important, we never acknowledge these elections, we condemn them. All these so-called pseudo-organisms of power are illegal, and certainly sanctions should be applied both against the Russian Federation and against all the organizers of these illegal elections. There is also a need to increase the pressure on Russia on the illegal passporting of Ukrainian citizens, which is part of the genocidal policy. But you'll notice, the Russian Federation is now forming these illegal authorities, and who is going in there: collaborators, members of the forbidden parties, "shariahs", and, unfortunately, "ministers of the people." And that's why I'm calling the ruling party. You have to clean up your ranks immediately from these bastards that you've put on your lists, and they've betrayed your team today, so they betrayed Ukraine, and just as they came into "ministers of the people" just to earn and "thirty," so now they've become collaborators, traitors and involved in illegal elections, these illegal authorities involved in torturing Ukrainians, collecting lists of pro-Ukrainian people is an absolute disgrace. "European Solidarity", today, 2.5 thousand of our Partymen are fighting on the front. As for those who do not behave well in the local authorities, we cleaned part of our convention yesterday. Take the example of European Solidarity and clean up yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u20	The word is given to the national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u21	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, my colleague was absolutely right, because unfortunately, the Ukrainian state did not put a dot today in relation to all those political parties that have people who should be suspected of treason or cooperation with the invaders. Unfortunately, it is they who continue this occupation and even those who have come out of occupation. This is, for example, the Herson region, the Kharkiv region. It's very important to have a illustration and to understand where these people should be either in the executive branch of power today, or in the local self-government bodies, or maybe they'll go to the election, or maybe they'll be the speakers, as they are today at the South Ukrainian AES, the former Medvedchuk team and the traitor, the speakers of the nuclear power plant. But on the other hand, I have a request to the government, to the Attorney General's Office, to the professional ministers and vice-premiers, to the Prime Minister, to the President, with a clear explanation as to the effect that a citizen of Ukraine who has taken a Russian passport or who, with a Ukrainian passport, has come to the election, the illegal elections of the Russian Federation in the occupied territories, which will result in a legal and then de facto citizen. Because one story when we talk about it being illegal and it's the whole world understands, it doesn't acknowledge it any further, but another is the struggle for our citizens, who, under fear or pressure, under violence, are forced to take passports somewhere, and somewhere under the guns to go to these elections. It's a question of responsibility for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u22	Thank you. Please, Batenko Taras Ivanovich, Party for the Future. You're handing it over, aren't you? Please, Gus.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u23	Igor Gus, 19th constituency, Future. Dear friends, in matters of the so - called elections in the occupied territories, one important detail needs to be noted. Anyone who has participated in these pseudo-elections of Ukrainian citizens, or as members of commissions, or as observers, or as journalists who have explained this question, or as candidates, should understand and feel that these people will sooner or later be captured and planted by the Ukrainian State for a long time. It is vital that these people understand that they, their relatives, will be in the reach of the Ukrainian legal system, even though they will be targeted during the conditional retreat with the invader from our territories. Therefore, the Ukrainian State, our legal system, the Ukrainian government, Parliament must do its utmost to ensure that every degenerate, every mancure, every occupier involved in this, is targeted at finding everyone. If it takes five years to do so, we must search for these people for five years if it takes ten years. But each one of them has to know and feel that the Ukrainian State will sooner or later get every saucer and plant it for a long time, it is our shared important task. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u24	Heroim Slava! Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, the "Fatherland" faction. That's what I understand. He's telling Nemira. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction is the co-author of this determination and appeal, and we will support it accordingly. Why will we be supportive? Mainly, the Donetsk Region is Ukraine, the Lugansk Region is Ukraine, the Herson Region is Ukraine, the Zaporozh Region is Ukraine, the Crimea is Ukraine, Sevastopol is Ukraine, and that is why we support this call. And we will not allow any state, especially the aggressor state, to hold, so-called, elections in an area that is the territory of Ukraine. The second thing I want to say is not what it says, but when we do this decision and there's a problem, Mr. Head and honourable colleagues. We're talking to international organizations, to assemblies, we've already had a statement from the European Union, every country of the Great Seven and the Great Seven in general. This week, the United Nations General Assembly began its work. The Supreme Council only today, almost two weeks after the holding of these so - called elections, calls on international organizations and parliamentary assemblies. I think it should be taken into account, Mr. Head, and in similar cases perhaps we should make a statement by the Head of the Supreme Council, without waiting for the plenary session to take place, we should make a statement by the faction heads, the Head of the Supreme Council, perhaps the Committee in foreign affairs can do it in time so that we don't look like what it is that concerns most of us, we comment on it last. I want to say that Russia will be holding new so-called elections in six months, its so-called President. We do not have to wait for this to happen, but we have to start work to prevent and recognize these elections as illegal in our territories. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u26	Thank you. The word is given to the Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, faction of "The Servant of the People". Is there anyone else who would like to make a statement on this subject, dear colleagues? If not, we will vote after Fedor Volodymyrovich. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! What the Russian Federation is trying to demonstrate in temporarily occupied territories has nothing to do with international law, not only with the principles of law, but also with common sense. But it would be funny if it were not sad, because what Russia is doing in the temporarily occupied territories, holding elections in parts of Ukraine, in some of the settlements temporarily occupied by Russia, is then used by Russia’s representatives for some bizarre, delusional thought to announce them from the United Nations’s rostrum. Therefore, of course, we must demonstrate that Ukraine is complete and intact within internationally recognized borders, no occupying authorities of the terrorist country in Ukraine are at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u28	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this very important draft decision. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Honorary colleagues, I propose to accept, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international organizations, parliamentary assemblies, governments and parliaments of foreign states in connection with the holding by the Russian Federation of illegal elections in the temporarily occupied territories of Donetské, Luhanské, Zaporzik and Hersonian regions of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the city of Sevastopol (registration number of the draft Decree 10054). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[10:54:48]] For 307 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. It's a beautiful unity. Dear colleagues, there's been a statement from two groups -- a break with a replacement for the performance. Please, who's it going to be? Paul Bakunets, do I understand? Please. And Andrew Bogdanovich Keith, right? Please, three minutes and then we'll move on. Dear colleagues, we have a very busy agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Head, the national deputies of Ukraine! Honourable Head of the Seima and Parliamentarians of the Republic of Poland! As representatives of the Ukrainian Parliament, we are deeply concerned about the political crisis that began in our friendly relationship with the grain crisis. The Polish people, like the Ukrainian people, stand on the principles of Christian values, respect for the institutions of family and family, deep patriotism, and the love of their Fatherland. Poland, back in the early 1980s, was a pillar of freedom for millions of Ukrainians who lived in Lviv and in western Ukraine and could watch television from Poland. Poland in the '90s. There was trade with Poland, it was a salvation for millions of people when there was an economic crisis in Ukraine. In 2001, the great son of the Polish people St. Paul – John Paul II – visited Ukraine, where, in meeting with a young man, hundreds of thousands of children pointed out the way of truth, love and respect for their country – the path that our adult and courageous soldiers of the U.S.S.S.A. now follow. In 2022, Poland first opened a door to its home for the refugees of Ukraine and gave them shelter, sometimes without passports and without documents at all. And most importantly, Poland took on the role of military mediator and helped build a chain of military supplies for the Ukrainian U.S.S.A., gave us the road of life, the road that gives us faith in our victory. As in the past, I want to say that it has given us the opportunity to trade more freely in the European Union market if we were a member of the European Union. I understand that Poland's small family farming system is social and more focused on the employment of hundreds of thousands of Poles and is strictly ecological and regulated by European legislation. Poland is effectively protecting its farmers from potential bankruptcy by imposing bans. The Polish agrobusiness system is unable to compete with the Ukrainian agribusiness system at the moment. So I think that the Ukrainian government should call off its lawsuits in the WTO, cancel or stop banning any import product from Poland, and rebuild a constructive platform for the integration of our agrarians. Given that Ukraine, like Poland, is a parliamentary-presidential country, we propose to create a joint parliamentary group "Ukraine-Poland" to address this issue. St. John Paul II once liked to say, "Be fair to appreciate what you have and around you, learn to appreciate, distinguish, choose." Praise the Republic of Poland! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is Project Registration Number 10071, this is Project Decision on Support for the Ukrainian Defence and Industrial Complex in Wartime Conditions. Dear friends, I ask you to vote and include this draft decision in the agenda of the session. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:59:26]] For 293 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[10:59:48]] For 261 Decision taken. I invite the author of this decree by the Ukrainian national deputy David Georgievich Arahami. Please, David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u31	My colleagues, you know what a difficult situation we have right now is because of a misunderstanding between the branches of power: between DASU, between the Ministry of Defense and the military-industrial complex in general. DASU concluded that it accused all suppliers of any military production during the war that they were not to receive any profit at all. Then the law enforcement authorities went with these conclusions to DASU and began to conditionally "smash" businesses, both public and private. In fact, we've met many times at the KMU level and we haven't been able to handle the situation because each side thinks it's right. What are we doing today? We make this determination to send a political signal. There is now a court case between the Ministry of Defense and DASU. If the Ministry of Defense wins, then it'll be a precedent that will be followed by all the other suppliers. If that doesn't happen, we don't know what's going to happen, how the military-industrial complex is going to develop. So I ask you all to support this decision in order to send a political signal to all authorized authorities that this cannot be done during a war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, will the committee head be co-reported, or will we move immediately: two in, two in, two in, against? Let's do two, two, against that, please, colleagues. The word is given to the national deputy Chlapuk Maksim Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u33	Please pass the word to the Ironborn.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u34	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u35	Respectful colleagues certainly need to maintain this resolve. If it's very simple, what she's talking about: four months ago, there were two decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers that had contradictions. The State Audit Service chooses the worst in these decrees, concludes that every enterprise that provided something in the beginning of the war is a criminal. Next, this conclusion is the basis for real criminal cases and entrepreneurs who, at the beginning of the war, put up armor, supplied military weapons, now for what they did, are launching real criminal cases, both for light industry, for example, for the form we purchased in Ukraine and not only in Turkey, but also for weapons. The situation is not resolved for four months. For four months now, she has been in such a stalemate that the Ministry of Defense, as a subject of the Cabinet of Ministers, is suing another subject of the Cabinet of Ministers — the State Auditor’s Service. Nothing else like, sorry, stupidity can't be called. But it would probably be in some way if there was no war. And that's why this decision is an opportunity to give a political signal right now that if the Cabinet of Ministers can't figure it out, then Parliament says to them that no, the people who supplied something for the army are not criminals. Therefore, I ask you very much to support this decision. I hope we're going to accept changes in the State Audit Service because it looks really bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u36	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Danuci Alexandr Anatolyevich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u37	Please give the word to Alexander Zavávnević. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u38	Please, Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in addition to past speeches: not four months, not six months of this problem, this issue began to be dealt with by the committee early this year, January-February. There have been two attempts by the Cabinet of Ministers to approach this heavy equipment, a projectile, as you wish to call it. One decision was overturned, which was adopted in the 22nd year, a scandalous one, but yet the attempt on the drones was successful. That's why we're giving, I don't know, the signals, the boards, the whole parliament, not just the number of defense committees, that we need to put it all back together, because industry can't do that. And also, colleagues, I want to go to factions and groups that didn't vote yesterday for the money that goes to arms. Today everyone must have woken up at 5:40 p.m., 5:30 p.m., and then in the morning they saw it on Facebook, in the PVC channel, in the South, in command, how many missiles were shot down, how many were shot down, and how many were gone. So I urge you to think about what we're going to be fighting tomorrow, what we're going to be fighting for, what we're going to be fighting for, what we're going to be doing here, what we're going to be fighting for, what we're going to be doing here, what we're talking about with ammunition, what we're going to be dealing with, what we're going to be doing here, what we're going to be doing here. Thank you, colleagues. Please support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u40	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Hončarenko Alexiyyovich, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Irina Fries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u42	Please, Irina Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u43	Colleagues, I'm sure that everyone in this room has not heard of this suture, which has given us all the Kabmen in terms of so-called profit in terms of price for state defence contractors, but is also aware that we really have to take this political step and once again the normative chaos of Kabmin to settle our decisions. If we go to the retrospect, in February and March of 22nd, we expanded Kabmin's mandate and gave him the opportunity, without classical tender procedures, to make purchases for the security and defence sector, and in particular for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. But what did this lead to? This led to the fact that the legal nihilism in the Cabinet's rulings today is treated in different ways. In fact, the state defense order is being blocked today because the contractors, the country's performers, who set up our nation's shoulders and made an order without any kind of 100% subscription that they made in foreign contracts, and they did it just because they needed to take, feed our Ukrainian Armed Forces, so today these suppliers are "losing" the law enforcement authorities. I demand European Solidarity to return the hour of the government to Parliament. We believe that it is the Kabmin that must continue, even under wartime conditions, to be accountable to the Supreme Council. Colleagues, we are the legislative body of the State and the parliamentary-presidential republic, we must demand a report from Kabmin and a response to our actions. Because lately, unfortunately, we've been fixing with you that no legal framework, even under the approved laws of the Supreme Council, is sabotaged and not developed. Shame on that Kabmin!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u44	The word is given to Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of "The Fatherland". Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u45	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, listen to the ruling that is today. Which today needs a military-industrial complex and the Ministry of Defense. But when I hear about the sidewalk tiles, when I hear about the football fields, but the whole country, all the military, we watch our missiles fly to Theodosius and destroy military objects there. We're watching our missiles destroy boats in the Bay of Sevastopol. It's the only way they won't fly there. They need to be fueled, they need to be recharged, they need to be refueled, they need to be filled with TNT, they need to be filled with powder, and only when our Ukrainian Air Force can shut down our kindergartens, they can shut down our schools, our infrastructure, only then we can be invincible. Colleagues, that's right, when we support the military-industrial complex. But before you write any laws and speak, remember the state of war. Remember, the main thing is the Ministry of Defense and their needs. The main thing is the General Staff. And what they're saying, we need to consider writing any laws. And the military-industrial complex, its development will give us independence. Independence from partners who may at one time suspend help. This independence will enable us from territories to liberalize, reverse, and eventually win what we want. Let's support and never talk about the priorities of the sidewalk or the roads again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. No one else wants to speak? Then I ask the national deputies to prepare themselves for the vote. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft regulation to support Ukraine's defence and industrial complex under military conditions (project registration number 10071). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:11:40]] For 306 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next bill, 9610, is the second reading. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on National Minorities (Communitys) of Ukraine on certain issues of the realization of the rights and freedoms of persons belonging to national minorities (Communitys) of Ukraine. I invite the head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, the national minorities and the inter-national relations of Road Andrija Viktorovich to the rostrum. We agreed there'd be two adjustments. Dear colleagues, do not separate yourselves, there will be only two amendments from the national deputy, Vátarović, and we are voting on the bill. These amendments will be put on confirmation. Please, National Deputy Vjatrović. Just call the repair number right away so we can find it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, please place on confirmation and do not support Amendment 7. It is an artistic display that is carried out in minority languages. The edition of the first reading foresees that not even the West itself, but the conference, or brief companionship, should be duplicated by Ukrainian visitors at the request of not less than 72 hours. This standard in itself, I think, detracts from the status of the Ukrainian language and its bearers, but the committee went on and amended that the conference would only translate into Ukrainian if within 72 hours at least ten citizens were asked. This is already direct, I think, discrimination against Ukrainians in their own state. The right to duplication, the right to declare in Ukrainian cannot depend on how many people want to realize this right. Please place amendment number 7 on confirmation and fail it by keeping the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u48	Please take the seat of the committee. Dear colleagues. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u49	I'm sorry, Mr. Vitatrovitch, here, I don't know, there's no interference in Ukrainian language, it's an exclusive recommendation from the Eurocommission, which, at the last time we met, expressed a desire for the exact number of people to be installed in this way. That's the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 7th Amendment, you get it, right? I'll bet. She's a committee member. At the same time, the national deputy Vjatrović requests that the committee make such a decision for confirmation. May I have the people's deputies vote on the 7th amendment? [[11:14:37]] For 227 Decision taken. What's the next amendment? Show the factions, please. Please, what's the next amendment? Windstorm.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u51	10 revisions. Please place on confirmation and do not support Amendment 10. This amendment removes an important rule that the order of creation and operation of special bookstores for the realization of the rights of national minorities is determined by Minkult. Why can't it be deleted? Because at the bookstore for Nazis, the Language Law does not extend, which requires at least 50 percent of the Ukrainian assortment. And if instead of clear rules on how to distinguish a bookstore for Nazis from a regular bookstore, only a declarative definition remains, any bookstore will be able to ignore the Language Act. It's totally unacceptable and, as far as I know, the authors of the amendment don't insist on taking it into account. Please place amendment number 10 on confirmation and fail it by keeping the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u52	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u53	The Committee believes that there is no impact on the issue of specialized or unspecialized bookstores. So, in large numbers, the content and desire are unknown to me. So please leave the paperwork and support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, amendment number 10, it's dealt with editorially. At the same time, the national deputy Vjatrović requests that the committee make such a decision for confirmation. I'm putting 10 amendments in the editor's office, as it's taken into account by the editorial committee, for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:16:42]] For 176 The decision is not taken. The amendment's out. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion, we can move on to making a decision in general. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on National Minorities (Communitys) of Ukraine on certain issues of the realization of the rights and freedoms of persons belonging to national minorities (Communitys) of Ukraine (Registration No. 9610). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:17:38]] For 318 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next bill 9269, and alternative bill 9269-1, 9269-d. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization of Proceeds by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction, on bringing terminology into line with international standards. Please. [[11:18:27]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of Ukraine's First Deputy Minister of Finance, Denis Valeriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill was developed by the Ministry of Finance to bring terminology into line with European standards on money-laundering and terrorist financing, as well as to implement the recommendations of FATF experts, the European Commission and the Council of Europe Committee on anti-money-laundering and terrorist financing. The adoption of the bill is a condition for Ukraine to join the European Union and receive financial assistance from the IMF. Just canceling the three-year time limit for recognition of a person, a politically significant person, a structural beacon. The bill proposes to make such changes to the Financituring Act. In the term "actor who performs public functions in international organizations," "foreign public figures" and "national public figures" delete the words "for the last three years." To supplement the standard according to which the primary financial monitoring entity (SPFM) should ensure proper application of the risk of a meaningful approach when serving clients who are politically significant. Taking into account the importance of the bill, he asked for his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexandre Anatoliyovich, author of the alternative bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, I rarely speak out of this rostrum in the Supreme Council, but when preparations were made for the adoption of this bill, I saw a very strange thing coming together. Unitedly, no one wants to vote for the PEP Act, no one wants its assets and financial accounts to be monitored by commercial banks and people have refused to serve because they are PEPs and PEPs. For the last time, I don't even remember seeing this unity in this room, because when it comes to national MPs, everyone is willing to stand up for their position, push the yellow or red button, but not when it comes to the rights or duties of ordinary citizens. When it comes to ordinary citizens, you all vote in favour. You vote in favour of raising taxes, you vote in favour of raising tariffs, you vote in favour of raising credit rates, you vote in favour of skins and corruption, and only when it comes to your interests are you voting against or holding back by following all the instructions of the President's Office. I think it's time to realize that you're going to come out of this room with a bad reputation, whether you're PEPs or not. And do anything to make it possible for you to walk in the street so that you don't get spit in the back. I suggest you consider the draft decree that I will register to require the State Border Service and the Cabinet of Ministers to implement the Constitution of Ukraine to allow all Ukrainian citizens to go abroad independently of their age and military specialties, as established by the Constitution. That's what's gonna
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u58	Please give me your next co-op. The rapporteur for the alternative bill 9269-d is Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy of Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhailovna. That's what I understand, Olga Mikhaylovna, you and the committee. Right? You represent an alternate from the committee, right? Worked by the committee and the committee's decision are you, too? Then four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u59	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting decided to support the drafting committee of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention and Anti-Legalization of Income (Laundering) by Crime, the Financing of Terrorism and the Dissemination of Weapons of Mass Destruction against Politically Significant Persons. And register this project, submit it to the Supreme Council. So from the committee, I ask you to support the amended bill, and I remind you once again that on November 4, last year, almost a year has passed, I have also stood behind this rostrum and I have asked you, dear colleagues, not to make a mistake and not to vote for the amendments that imposed time limits on the person's public status. Now we are forced to correct the mistake that has completely synchronized our legislation with the European Union’s legislation, where the principle of One speck forever PEP is at pan-European level. John Kennedy said that those who were given much would be required. Because of the status of public officials, the Finnustins treated us with special attention, somewhat excessive, and we did not like all of this with you. But our vote, honourable colleagues, today depends on our prospects for membership in the European Union. In the European Union, where we promised to join our people, who chose us in 2019, for which people died in Midan in 2013 and 2014, they died in Donbas for our European choice. And you can't sit on two chairs: on the one hand, don't report on the origins of your funds, because it's embarrassing, but on the other hand, promise people a Euro-integration course of Ukraine and ask people to do it. Don't give your own emotions to your banking experience? Stand in the way of our nation's civilizational choice. The status of the RER is not a judgment, it is a formality that gives reason for more careful analysis of transactions, our transactions with you, which people are so scrupulously observing, and our declarations as well. And don't let me vote on what will be promised by the President. That's why I'm calling you. If we have already set a course for European integration, something we promised our European partners, let's do it honestly if we want to join the European Union at all. The assisted committee of the project will have financial responsibility in the form of fines. Support the bill, show that the words "Ukraine is more than anything!" – it's not just words and we put our Euro-integration interests ahead of our own. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, we are now going to discuss this bill. I'm asking the factions and groups to sign up for two, two, against the draft law. Please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Gerus Andry Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u61	I would like to take the floor to support the important bill to Mr. Getmansev, Mr. Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u62	Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u63	Dear friends, today we are answering a very simple question without discussing the content without all of these discussions that have lasted six months in the last three years: are we ready to be members of the EU, or are we not? The Eurocommission tells us very simple things. There is a principle in our legislation: Once PEP – forever PEP. Apply this principle to your legislation. Are you prepared to do so, ready to burden your superiors with such duties? Then you are ready to be members of the EU. If you are not prepared to do so, admit it too. So today it's a civilizational choice, no exaggeration. You and I don't vote for any law. We are voting with you on whether those present in this room are ready to be members of the EU, ready to be citizens of the EU, whether they want to stay where we are now. So take a very responsible view of this vote. And I would like to support this decision, which is the prerequisite for starting negotiations on EU membership, as a last resort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u64	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kostenko Romano Vasilovich. The word is given to Ustin's Alexander Yurievna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I'm not going to speak with slogans or appeals right now. I'm going to tell you that in this law that we're going to vote today, because we've copied it ten times, we've consulted with Europeans. Is it written that you are PEP? Yes, but, and we did prescribe that, I think the European Union will be satisfied that after 12 months of our mandate, we are not obliged to report to the financial institutions that we are PEP. It's very important because, roughly speaking, if you want to open up an account abroad, because inside of Nazbank we're going to go to concessions and we're not going to have the same thing as before, we've been standing there for four hours, we've been told good-bye in the window, you're PEP, it could be a problem abroad. But if you don't put out a twig that you're PEP, you probably won't have any problems. The other one. And what's important is that you create a PEP register. To be honest, I was against it because I don't think the European Union supports it, but if you're calmer, if you're not in this register in 12 months, you can get this help. I'll tell you the truth, I think it's a problem, because it's better not to put a twig on you that you're PEP than to come to a French bank with Ukrainian help and stamp and say, oh, I'm not in the register anymore. As soon as you tell them that, they'll realize that you were either PEP or there is and then they'll come looking for you. But if you think that this will give you additional protection at least in Ukraine, it was suggested that you create such a register. We're going to have to vote on this law, it's a little bit easier than this is regulation in the European Union right now. And the main thing that we've been fighting for is for us not to notice that we're PEP after 12 months, as the MEPs are doing right now. So I ask you to support this bill and give us a path to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u66	Thank you. The word is given to Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna. Dear colleagues, and after this report, after this speech, we will vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u67	I think that the faction "European Solidarity" is most responsible for Parliament's task of joining the EU and NATO. That's why our faction, unlike the servants, voted in favour of the opening of electronic declarations, and you did it only after President Zelensky's ass. Of course, we also support amendments to the legislation on PEP. But all these investigations, surveys of Ukrainians and articles on corruption will not end with the discovery of declarations and legislation on PEP if corruption persists. And you're the monotony that has monotony, your government, all your power structures, you have to realize that. Until those who actually run the country, and this is the President's Office's advisors, these are all the people who are giving instructions today, including the strong structures, they're going to be the shadowy gray cardinals of the country. And we also want to go to the MPs who made the amendment, and you voted to get the heads of state enterprises out of the declaration, who today get paid from 400,000 dollars to a million dollars a month, from tendering committees that are not going to declare today. And you even pulled them out of a conflict of interest. This is insane! So our faction will amend that the President's advisors are also viable PEPs. Those who run ministries today run a government that actually eliminates, manages parliament, has to declare and be PEPs. And so today the heads of state enterprises are to declare themselves. It's not normal for them to get paid more than the ministers and the president, and they don't declare, and they don't answer, and they don't. And that's what you've done with this power system in the state. And we will fight corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we are moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. It's a really important bill. I just want to remind you of the day the flag of the European Union was brought here. And the flag of the European Union is not just a right, it is a duty. And I very much ask you to support this bill today as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds Received by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction concerning politically significant persons (registration number 9269-d). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:33:42]] For 260 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to disagree, the next question is the 131st Rules, and we will make one point. On 20 September 2023, on the basis of a decision (Protocol No. 140), I was asked by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy to remove disagreement in the text adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 6 September 2023 of the Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain laws of Ukraine on the change of status and order of formation of the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors of the Supreme Council of Justice (Registration No. 9483-2). During the preparation of the text of the adopted law for signature, there was disagreement in its individual positions. In this regard, a proposal is being made in accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules for the elimination of disagreements in this law. You have been provided with the appropriate materials. According to part four of article 131 of the Supreme Council Rules, the matter is not being discussed. So, honourable colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please. I am voting on the proposal initiated by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy to remove disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges and certain laws of Ukraine concerning the change of status and the formation of the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors of the Supreme Council of Justice (registration number 9483-2). Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the national deputies to vote. [[11:35:35]] For 264 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is closed. Thank you. The next question, dear colleagues, is this. We agreed that we are the two bills: 9422, 9422-1 and 5184, and we will consider on such a procedure that one of us with discussion, the first two with discussion, and the next one without discussion. So, honourable colleagues, Bill 9422 and an alternative to it, I propose that we consider these bills in a simplified manner. And please vote. Stop! Stop! Wait a second. Please, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u69	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. We agreed that we would look at them together and there would be one discussion for two. So there's going to be statements by the authors of two laws and one discussion by two.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u70	Okay. So let's, really, let's do one discussion of two bills and one vote. No objection, dear colleagues? But we also need to vote on the simplified procedure, Sergey Volodymyrovich. I would like to suggest that we consider these bills in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:37:00]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's do it. Is there a need to report? Yeah. Then let's do it. I invite the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy of Vasilievsk-Smagluk Olga Mihaylovna in connection with the first Bill 9422. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to a socio-oriented bill that is currently putting an end to any manipulation of consumer loans at higher rates. The National Bank and I worked on this mechanism. We've considered a lot of, tens of thousands of people's complaints about micro-financial institutions for consumer loans. They get these loans under 2,000 800,000 a year, below 3,000 a year, under one and a half thousand a year, and they're forced to borrow 5,000 dollars for two weeks, to overpay almost 2,000 dollars. I ask you to consider this bill. It refers to lower rates, and so to keep the microfinance facility in order to make it interesting for it to be present in the market, on the one hand, and on the other hand to stop the looting of people. People can't reach these microcredits, so they're too expensive. That's the first one. The other one. We stop any lie that's in advertising. For example, you see at the stops, in the subway: loans below zero percent of the annual. That's not true. People are misinformed, lied to. It's written in small letters, the real percentage that people borrow that money for. I understand that now micro-financial institutions, a lot of our colleagues have turned around, that this is going to drive the whole market, that micro-finance institutions are going to have to go because they can't keep their balance. But that's not true. People need available loans, and we leave them with the opportunity to get these available loans under 365 percent of the year-olds, leaving the profits to the microfinance facility and making these loans available. People need to rebuild their homes, they need to borrow for their health, for their operations. Let's make these loans available to people and be honest with them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u72	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy to the author of the alternative bill 9422-1, Eugene Vasilovich Petrunjak. Please, Eugene Vasilovich. She's not going to report it, is she? And you're the co-author, aren't you? Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, in fact, the basic draft of Law 9422, which is prepared by the National Bank and submitted by the "ministers" of the people, is the cancellation of the transparency of the activities of the NBA, which is not in line with European standards, is the unpredictability of legislation in the banking and financial services market, the increase in the financial and administrative costs of banks, the risks of expanding the shadow sphere of microcredit. A colleague here has said a lot about words that change the way you feel about this draft law and this problem. I think and share with the co-authors the need to protect consumers. For your information, in the first half of 2023, 4 million Ukrainians used microcredit, with an average loan of 4,000,500 dollars. And in fact, now we have to go completely with the ability of financial companies that provide such microcredit, because the state through the banking system like the National Bank has not offered anything to the common people so that they can quickly take these loans for a few days. In fact, credits of 5.7 percent a day are unreal large sums, and they are absolutely accurate in misleading people who are financially illiterate. So the alternative bill proposes what companies can do that have actually proven themselves to be responsible companies. This is at a time of war or no more than 365 days at a rate of 2.5 percent and 2 percent at the end of the war. Please bear in mind that people are in a very critical situation right now. If you accept the basic bill, most companies will not be able to cover 75 percent of the non-refundable loans. Don't forget that people who.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, these were the reports on Bill 9422, 9422-1. And we agreed that we would also consider 5,184 as a steam bill. The word is given to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko as the author of this bill. Please. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u75	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we all understand that the people in Ukraine are practically driven into a deaf social corner. You look at the budget next year, where the minimum standard of living is calculated in all normal countries and below what people can't pay, unfortunately, is ignored by the budget as a whole. And we have the minimum pension that we can pay people at the minimum standard of living right now is 6,000 dollars with a penny. And people are paid 2,000 dollars of cash. If the minimum wage, based on the minimum standard of living, has to be more than 9,000 dollars now, people today have 7 thousand dollars. How can they live in such distress, feed their families, raise their children? You've established a real social genocide of the nation. And then you drive them into these microcredit institutions where people feel desperate to take credit for a couple of days, and they actually get 3,000 percent of the annual ones, and then they're going to have real Armageddon companies against them. They're not allowed to live, they're destroyed, they're taking apartments, they're taking their stuff. And that's what the state's looking at because it's covering these raiders, completely inhumane, collecting companies and microcredit companies. So our alternative is very simple. To ban this microcredit in general, and to ensure that Natzbank and Parliament produce the order that people need.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, we have passed these bills. We agreed to one discussion on all the bills. That's why I'm asking people's deputies, factions and groups to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please. Please, Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u77	Dear friends, what's going on now? Now, companies that give microcredit to people give it to people without checking who they give it to. These loans are given at night, these loans are given to people who already have 50 loans. These loans are given to people who are lost, to alcoholics, to those who are not responsible for the return of this money, and to microcredit companies know about this by providing these loans. This causes pain to families, Ukrainian families, tens, and hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian families. The bill is designed to make this market civilized, so that companies can test those they lend to so that the interest on these loans is not crazy, and they could be returned and paid in principle so that people don't go into debt slavery, as it is now. It's a bright, cool bill that makes the microcredit market civilized. And so, really, microcredit companies are doing everything they can to keep this bill from going into the hall. They knock down this bill deliberately, taking care of their percentages, taking care of their earnings, which is not a righteous wage, which is not a business-worker who is a wage on another man's mountain. So this is actually the bill that we're proposing, it's really developed in conjunction with the National Bank, with the regulator that supports this bill. There are rules that we have adopted in accordance with the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, so it is also up to Ukraine to finance the bill. I ask you to support it in the first reading with a clear green button and then work on the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u78	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitruk Artem Hennadiyovich, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u79	Please pass the word to Voronek Oleg Evgeniovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u80	Please, Oleg Evgeniovich Voronko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u81	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today, we are considering a very important initiative to put order in the market of so - called microcredits that distribute non-bank financial institutions under almost every subway station and store. The daily interest rate on such loans can be 5 percent, and the average nominal annual rate is over 1,000 percent. This is no longer the case, man cannot pay such interest, there are no such rates in any EU country. The MP's "Delivery of Ukraine" support the introduction of the concept of "day interest rate" and the maximum daily interest rate of up to 1 percent. We also support the ban on granting microcredit to persons who have a gambling addiction and who are registered with persons who have limited access to gaming facilities to participate in gambling. It is also necessary to prohibit the false advertising of microcredits like "fast loan below zero percent." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u82	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Nemiri Grigori Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u84	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u85	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland. I want to continue practically what I just talked about. It's about these microcredit structures, they're essentially very often bringing together HMOs -- organized criminal groups. The police don't protect people who go under, in fact, the press of these microcredit organizations. There is a way out of this situation completely different. First. To begin with, for two thousand dollars, for five thousand dollars, for six thousand dollars a month a person with a family cannot live, a completely different social policy in the state is needed, not the one you budgeted for the following year. Secondly, what needs to be done is to adopt a law that allows banking institutions to give short loans to people who need them, under normal banking interest, not under dragons. And give people any way out without leaving them alone with this problem. And thirdly, what we need to do is figure out why the power structures don't protect people who are now practically, well, in this pressing, the repression is practically put into a hopeless situation. There are people who have three thousand percent a year and people can't pay off these amounts, they get bullied every day, but they're completely ignored by the power structures because they're one thing with these criminal microcredit organizations. I ask Parliament to start developing real order, laws, rules that will allow people to live in dignity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u86	Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u87	Dear Mr. Head, please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u88	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to stop at the epithets that you're distributing right now, because it would actually be more popular to say that really organized criminal groups, really, are standing by the subway, giving out microcredits, so replace, please, with another available tool for people. Don't you realize that for those who don't have, where they're going to take 4,000, 500 dollars today, there won't even be a way back home, and they're going to end up. In fact, we need to keep order. And it's not true that financial companies are breaking this bill. Financial companies, seven of them, who lend the most, agree both to increase creditworthiness and to improve other mechanisms, but to preserve microcredit, and agree to lower interest. They provide a calculation that gives them a reasonable opportunity to lend less than 2.5 percent now, for a transitional period, and then under 2. So do not buy such words. Since I remember years when there was no such mechanism, it was by the subway, Mr. Voronko, that such rich boys stood with the brigade beating up, beating up, giving up the money, and then beating them up. As you move into a civilized way of doing microcredit, do not start what is already done. Yes, we must do so that people are not deceived. Yes, you have to write and teach, many of the points in this bill are really necessary. But don't eliminate microcredit as such, because tomorrow is going to be a terrible situation in society, and you're not going to help, because you haven't prepared anything in return.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, another performance, Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, and then we will vote in turn for these laws. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill is not a requirement -- neither the IMF nor the World Bank. This bill was introduced by the People's Deputies in order to actually put a dot and give the people's deputies a new function -- to determine the interest rate. It's a nonsensical piece of legislation. Notice, then, why do we not regulate the fuel ceiling in diesel fuels? For example, does 60 bracelets appeal to everyone? I don't. Why don't we make it 30? The state should provide mechanisms, but it is not entirely legislative to regulate such markets. I think that this bill needs to be worked out, worked out. And let the National Bank not use the hands of national deputies to set numbers and interest rates by law, but let it take responsibility and do it with the market, attract it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u92	Thank you. Still, I understand, Ivanchuk, does he want to speak? Please, National Deputy Ivanchuk, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u93	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! This bill can be long debated in various ways, but we have to answer one question. Does the Supreme Council of Ukraine support financial slavery in Ukraine? Does the Supreme Council of Ukraine support the financial robbery of financial companies, people in need of financial support? And let's answer the simple question: where is the adequacy limit? If you take one thousand dollars when you are in a very difficult position, can you pay ten? The bill limits what I think is a very high ceiling for financial companies. Therefore, the Trust MP Group supports this bill and we ask the Chamber to join in this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u94	From the procedure? Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u95	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, I want you to just pay attention. Now we're looking at a bill that we've been told is badly needed by the National Bank of Ukraine, and also, I understand, it's quite important to the Ministry of Finance. And notice, there is no representative of the National Bank or the Ministry of Finance in this room right now. Just pay attention to this during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion, we move on to the vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. I propose that the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the regulation of the financial services markets should be adopted on the basis of the revision of the provisions in the first section of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 9422). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:57:42]] For 243 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, we also agreed to vote 5184. I therefore propose to adopt draft Law 5184 on the protection of the rights of borrowers within the framework of microcredit and microloans. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:58:17]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. Guys, let's move on. Next bill. Next Bill 6102 and alternative to it. I'm making an offer. This is a draft Act amending certain legislation on the harmonization of legislation in the field of State and municipal property rental. I would like to suggest that we consider these bills in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:58:59]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-again? I'm asking the factions to sign up: two in, two in, against, these bills. Does anyone want to report? We said two in a row, two in a row. No reports, two against, two against. Thank you. Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the "Voice" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u97	Please give the word to Jaroslav Ivanovich Rušišin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u98	Jaroslav Ivanovich Ruššin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u99	Thank you, Your Honor. We will vote in favour of this bill in favour of working "d." And we're all aspiring to vote for him for at least that kind of reason. This is where the good phrase just came from: where do we have the limit of adequacy? So we've shown in the last few days that we haven't even been able to get enough of the boundaries between government and local self-government. We did not extend to the local self - government the legal basis for managing our property in our territory. So this bill helps local communities, especially in rural areas, where the queue is not made up of investors, where it is not the turn of those who want to privatize or from potential owners of property, that allows them to look for and engage in such owners. This is one of the features of this bill that will help communities to fill both local budgets and possibly meet their strategic goals. And in general, we need to clean up the state with our right blades from the area of local self-government. And this bill, just a little bit, but it's moving in that direction. We're all pro-voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u100	Thank you. Please, Maksim Arkadyovich Bujansky, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u101	Please pass the word to Alexia Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u102	Please, Alexei Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u103	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's a very important Bill 6102-d, it's the first. The next iteration of the reform of state property that we started in the 19th year. I would like to remind you that we have adopted a new edition of the Rent Act, and after that we have hardly changed the law. But we've made a lot of important changes that need to be integrated into legislation to make the procedure work better and faster. In addition, the bill foresees several other important changes. First. Privatization legislation and rent. The first is the liquidation of the auction collapse scheme due to under-guarantee in privatization. And that's going to be able to unlock the sale of a lot of objects, and then send the funds to the state budget, which is to sell them anyway, on those objects where the auctions were broken. The other one. This bill foresees the possibility for the authorities of local self-government who are in exile, that is, their territory occupied, to maintain state and municipal property under the tax conditions at any point in the country, i.e. that it is conditional Marioupolis or other communities where the leadership remains and they should be placed somewhere. And in addition, the bill provides for the elimination of a series of corruption schemes that still exist in legislation and the introduction of procedures to competitive, transparent and equal conditions, and this is important both for the filling of the budget and for the fair rules of the game for our business, which in any case cooperates with the state. So, dear fellows, I very much ask you to support this bill in the first reading, for the second reading, we will work it out with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, Devajchenko Valentina Aleksandrovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian union of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u105	I'd like to speak to Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u106	Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Golovo, we have four bills before us, in a land where huge funds are being diverted. I personally and our faction have nothing to do with the authors, because these are the great people who have competences who have been trained in their spheres. But the price of the issue is billions of dollars -- the rent of huge state and municipal property. There is a basic law that has been in force for almost four years. Undoubtedly, tectonic changes took place during this time, and they must be regulated primarily by laws. But look at the content of these normative acts. The changes relate to the competences of the Holding Foundation, the vast agricultural sector, the fields of education, health care, science, such a sensitive category as the disabled, which we already have over 3 million, the defence and industrial complex, and so on and so forth. Changes are made to a number of laws, including codes. Questions. Is it possible to make one deputy even talented when such a balanced, global document was to be worked on by the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the holding fund, Minust, Minsurt, Minsvita? Friends, these are huge bodies that have to give a balanced and very responsible document. He didn't come out the way he wanted to. See what should be allowed to privatize the property of public and municipal educational institutions and public and municipal health institutions, which for more than three years have not been used in educational activities or medical, or rehabilitation services. But is it about time now, my friends, during the war? Well, what are we doing? That's why the scientific expertise has strongly opposed the adoption of such a law. And we can't support it. Let the government carry it. There's no one from the government, it's global things, friends, especially.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u108	The word is given by Gerasim's Arthur Volodymyrovich. He's transmitting, I understand, Alexei Alexiovich Hotcharenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u109	Alexei Hotcharenko, "European Solidarity." We are told that the purpose of this bill is to help the local authorities, including. Guys, this is harassment. After yesterday's vote, which you took the first step towards taking the money of local self-government, destroying decentralization, now talking about what we want to do here. Destroy decentralization in the country, destroy it! Look what's going on, they're taking the money. Look what's going on, town of Chernig, destroy local self-government and city council in Chernig. Look at the city of Raven, where the city’s head is also removed. He might like it, he might not like it, he was chosen by the city's inhabitants. That's a dot. As Ukrainian citizens have chosen us with you, as Ukrainian citizens have elected the President of Ukraine. Like, I don't like it -- there's a President, there's a Supreme Council, there's a city head in Reveny, in Chernigow, in other cities. Stop going down there! I don't understand that Mr. Jermak wants to manage the bus schedule in Chernigow or in Reveny? Is there an old habit that Mafi wants to put there? Stop it! Don't you have anything to do? Look at the foreign policy that's going on. The German councillors spoke, spat on India and China, saying they had a weak intellectual potential. But this is from all accounts, these counselors have a weak intellectual potential that they carry. Now Poland is at war. From the main rostrum of the world, the President is attacking our friends. Guys, come on, cut it out. Take care of your authority, put the order in foreign policy, there work. Don't go into local government, don't take money into the community, don't go into what you don't understand and don't do it at all. Decentralisation is very important, we have to keep it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u110	The word is also given to the national deputy, Burmich. Dear colleagues, and after that, we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u111	Honorable colleagues certainly need this bill from the State. We've had such serious discussions in the group, whether we support it or not, and we've come to the conclusion that on the first reading, we're going to support it. Why were there discussions? Well, because we had an anti-corruption committee meeting in May that concluded that the bill contained corruption risks, some of them there, but we're looking at it today. If these risks are corrected and removed, of course, we support them. And that's what we have in mind, and that's what we've agreed on. That's why the "Delivery of Ukraine" group will support the bill in the first reading and introduce its own regulations to eliminate the corruption risks that exist today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion, and I ask the national deputies to prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the Committee's proposals and the drafting of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts on the harmonization of rental legislation and privatization of state and municipal property (registration No. 6102-d). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:10:14]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing that this bill be re-readed, so please support me, colleagues. Please, 6102-d, focus on re-reading the first reading. Please vote. [[12:10:46]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, then, we propose that the subject of the legislative initiative be directed to the draft law. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:11:14]] For 225 Dear colleagues. Dear PEP Motovlover, you did not vote for this. Ladies and gentlemen, we have other drafts, so I have to put them in. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, one second, we've got a bunch of alternatives here, so I'm going to put them on. Guys, we've got at least 12 votes left. Dear colleagues, Bill 6102. This is a draft Act amending certain legislation on the harmonization of legislation in the field of State and municipal property rental. I'm proposing to adopt this bill as a basis. [[12:12:24]] For 211 I'm proposing that this bill be sent back for re-reading. Please vote. [[12:12:46]] For 214 The decision is not taken. I propose that the subject of the legislative initiative of National Deputy Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich be sent to work. Please vote. [[12:13:11]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. We're already close to that testament number. We have two alternatives. 6102-1, this is a draft Act amending certain legislation on the harmonization of legislation in the field of State and municipal property rental. I'm proposing to adopt this bill as a basis. Please vote. [[12:13:46]] For 216 The decision is not taken. I'm proposing to re-read Bill 6102-1. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:14:09]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I propose that the subject of the legislative initiative be corrected for the revision of Law 6102-1. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:14:36]] For 223 The potential is greater. Dear colleagues, you'll be surprised, but we have another alternative bill, 6102-2. I'm making a proposal, this is a draft law amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Renting (for the establishment of a tax system for renting state and municipal property by renters who need social protection, they do a socially significant activity, including school feeding reform), and I'm proposing to adopt Bill 6102-2 on a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:15:25]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to propose that we re-read Bill 6102-2. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:15:50]] For 209 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, last attempt, please. Whatever it takes, it needs to be voted on. Dear colleagues, I'm really asking you, let's save a bill from this engagement. I propose to send Bill 6102-2 to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this proposal. I think you can make a lot of decisions about that. Please, I beg you to vote. [[12:16:41]] For 221 The decision is not taken. All bills are regarded as rejected. Thank you. Motovlovec first asked for the procedure. Please, Motovlovets – from procedure, then Heroshenko – from procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u113	Guys, thank you all for voting for PEP. I can see there's no potential in this room. I propose to change the order of the proceedings: to go to the temporary commission of inquiry, to start with number 9641, to pass the temporary commission of inquiry, and to close the meetings. Thank you. Please put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u114	Stop, stop, stop! Not close, but call it a break. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Your Honor, there is a Motovilovite proposal. I'm putting her to a vote. Look, Andriy Viktorovich, I'm the only one who'll clarify your offer. We'll be right over. change the frequency of the day-to-day agenda and move on to issues related to the TSC, and then announce a recess in the sitting, do not close, stress, announce a recess in the sitting. I'm making this offer, my dear colleagues. Well, what do you mean, by procedure? We vote one, then I give you my word. Please come on, Dmitri Alexanderovich, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u115	Thank you. During the previous meeting, Ruslan Alexiyovich, a similar proposal from other national deputies, refused to put the vote to the vote in order to announce the recess. So we have to act on one rule: either yes or no. Or let them say that last time it was a violation, or don't put Motovilovnik's proposal for a vote, otherwise it's double standards that shouldn't be in the walls of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, then there is such an offer, I think it will not come from the Motovilovich, but from the Presidium, if you don't mind. Now we're going to change the agenda and we're going to vote in order to change the order of things, and we're going to move on to these issues (and the break is announced by the Presidium) without a break. So let's move on to the questions that apply to the interim commission of inquiry. I'm finalizing. Look, we're never gonna end up like this. Let's vote one, then we'll be different. I propose that we change the order of the day and move on to the regulations that apply to the interim commission of inquiry. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:19:35]] For 271 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed to go through them all without discussion, so I'll read them right away. I'll find them now. From the procedure? Yes, please, Irina Volodymyrna, I'm sorry, because I'm still looking for these.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u117	Thank you, colleagues. There should be no sexism in this room. I'm sorry, I held my hand from our faction that we have a statement from the procedure, and unfortunately only now did the presidency notice the opposition. I want to turn to the hall about what we voted today in the first reading of the important law that we are all now public figures, politically significant persons. Perhaps politically significant persons should not afford uncensored language in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and should pay attention to "servants", which is constantly made of the monotonous sector of Russian language, Russian matt, Russian laity, and pay attention to that prejudice, attention to the leadership of the "minister of the people" faction, and urge themselves not to allow themselves to be profaned by Russian mattuks in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I hope the Presidium will support me in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-21-m0.u118	In terms of sexism by your number of performances, I think we have a long-standing matriarch in the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Dear colleagues, 9641 – we agreed on all the decisions without discussion – this is a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out parliamentary control by conducting investigations into compliance with Ukraine's legislation by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, by the Armed Forces of Ukraine, by other Ukraine's military formations, and by law enforcement agencies of a special purpose, which are composed of military officers of social interest. I propose to accept in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the Draft Decree (registration number 9641). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:21:58]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next draft of the Order is the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible import, export, import into the customs territory of Ukraine of Russian goods (registration number 9651). I would like to make a proposal to take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Regulation 9651. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:22:45]] For 271 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next we have a draft Decision on the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible violations of Ukrainian legislation in the area of receiving, distributing, transporting, storing, targeting humanitarian and other assistance, as well as the ineffective use of State property that may be used to temporarily relocate internally and to provide other needs of the State (registration number 10020). I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to Regulation 10020. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:23:41]] For 279 Decision taken. Next, 9645. This is a draft amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible violations of Ukrainian legislation in public procurement during the course of the state of war, to include a representative in the TSK from the European Solidarity Party faction (9645). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an offer to accept, in general, the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, draft Decree 9645. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:24:32]] For 235 Decision taken. Next, this is a draft regulation amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulation on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry into possible violations of Ukrainian legislation by officials of the Ukrainian Bureau of Economic Security, the authorities of the State and other state bodies exercising powers in the field of economic security, which may have led to a reduction in revenues to state and local budgets” on the inclusion in the TSC of a representative from the European Solidarity Party faction (registration number of the draft Decree 9657). I propose to accept in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[12:25:28]] For-174 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Guys, let's move on. Next, it's 10019. This is a draft decree for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the question of the adequacy of funding by the central executive authorities for the proper treatment and rehabilitation of military personnel in health care and related matters. I propose to accept this proposal in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, this draft Regulation 10019. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:26:16]] For 269 Decision taken. Well, good fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I now announce a recess in our plenary meeting. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We continue to work to win. Glory to Ukraine!
