ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the ruling we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I point out that in accordance with the rulings adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to parliamentary tradition, let's begin our work with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, the second year of decisive opposition to Ukraine's large-scale military invasion of the Russian Federation takes place. Everlasting honor and glory to the defenders and defenders who stand for the sovereignty, independence and democratic system of Ukraine in the battlefield. Thank you all for the day - to - day work that brings us closer to victory. Please pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of all those who gave their lives for Ukraine, as well as to all peaceful citizens who died as a result of the criminal actions of the Russian aggressor state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable members of the People’s Republic of Ukraine are invited to make a signal vote prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and hold the two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:43:28]] For 257 For 257, against 6, hold on to 3. Everything as usual. Thank you. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague of the national deputy of Ukraine, Alina Leonidivna Zagorujko. Let's say hello to Alina. [[Applause]] We want strong health, fruitful work, and Ukraine’s rapid victory. Thank you. Once again, I appeal to my colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, which has been decided in Parliament before an hour after the end of our work. Dear fellow national MPs, a list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, is given to you. Let us go to his consideration. Let's start with the first one. 9165 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023 on the use of funds from the State Fund for Regional Development. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:45:00]] For 242 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee's Committee on Budgets, Mr. Danis Vadimovich. Please, Denis Vadimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u2	Honourable Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, Bill 9165 provides for the settlement of implementation issues in 2023 of the State Fund for Regional Development budget programme. I remind you that for 2023 the fund is set at 2 billion. Due to extensive destruction and the forced displacement of large numbers of citizens, the priority of the State’s regional policy in 2023 is primarily to rebuild and develop the infrastructure of the occupied territories, regions that accept a large number of internally displaced persons. The bill defines the specificities of the use of DFRD funds in the 23rd year, taking into account the challenges of military time. Based on such considerations, it is suggested that the fund’s use of funds should be determined in 2023 and that 50 percent of the fund’s funds are distributed in equal proportions between all regions, another 50 percent compared to those in which the fighting took place and which have already been released and need reconstruction in the first place. The main orientations are the construction and restoration of critical infrastructure, namely water supply, water supply, water supply, heating, construction, and restoration of health facilities, DNAPs, and safety centers. In addition, investment projects financed in previous years are expected to continue. The 23rd year of money includes the vote of the people in Action for the final list of objects that will be approved by the CMU.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u3	I'm sorry, four minutes from the author and the committee. Give me two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u4	The Ministry of Finance supports the bill. According to a review of the bill, the budget committee adopted such a decision. Recommend to the Supreme Council Bill No. 9165 on the basis of the first reading, and instruct the committee to work on it, taking into account the amendments and proposals made by the legal entities of the legislative initiative, by shortening the deadline for the submission of such amendments and proposals by half. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u5	Thank you, Your Honor. Take your place, please. Dear colleagues, I propose to sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss this bill. People's deputies please sign up. Please, Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u6	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't ask you so often to listen carefully to what this bill, all of you, and especially the Majorists, listen very carefully. Although this was drafted by my committee colleagues, the bill was drafted, but today on the committee, I objected to such a bill being adopted, and I will explain why. The Fund, the State Regional Development Fund, is small, just 2 billion per country this year. We have created a special fund for the restoration of Ukraine, which needs to be filled, including from confiscated Russian funds, and for the reconstruction of those areas that have been affected. But this bill predicts that the entire regional development fund will be divided by 50 percent by 8 areas, and the rest 50 percent by all areas, taken together again. Central Ukraine, Western Ukraine, when temporarily displaced persons left, received additional pressure on social infrastructure. Please tell me, don't you need to rebuild those territories? I have to. You don't have to do social infrastructure, kindergartens, schools? We need to find out where the movers are temporarily. And now they're getting, absolutely unfairly, 25 percent of everything from the Regional Development Fund in Central and Western Ukraine. Well, that's an unfair approach. And another moment. They're going to vote for projects that need to be supported and they don't. Will there be one project from the village if a vote is made through the Diya? Only urban projects will fall where people use the Operation and vote for their urban projects. Well, let's just go to the whole of Ukraine that needs any money, because for the second year, people don't actually have money in places, and they can't spend local budgets. I propose to reject this bill, let's do what's right by law. And the Budget Code can't be changed by amending the Budget Act. Let's do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u7	Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich, please, the "Slut of the People" faction. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u8	Good afternoon! Good day, dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! We're looking at a fairly important bill for communities and for areas that have suffered from armed aggression, particularly the substance that I'm presenting here. I'd like to say a few very positive things in this bill and in those proposals about the distribution of the State Fund for Regional Development. First. The possibility of using these funds without any link to the line of action or the border with the Russian Federation. This enables foreign communities to also receive additional funding and implement infrastructure projects. An important story and, indeed, a debate about what residents of one community or another will be able to do through the "Dia" plugin to choose the project that they consider necessary. However, there are many other programmes for areas that have been adopted by many displaced persons, such as the Immunities, such as international institutions, which cannot be used in border areas and communities or in communities that are bordering the Russian Federation. The law is progressive, opportunities and justice in the distribution of regional development funds, I think, has increased. Therefore, I would like to support the order proposed by the Committee on Budget Affairs, to accept today as a basis and to work on the second reading. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u9	Heroim Slava! Please, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of European Solidarity. Pottery Alexiyyovich, that's what I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u10	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we have a very strange bill. The State Regional Development Fund is 2 billion dollars and more because of the vote in Action. I see the people of the village in Chernigovishte, on the compound, where everything is destroyed, and they sit in Acts, and they win the inhabitants of the cities. Who are we laughing with? But at the same time, I want to draw your attention to 2 billion dollars. We voted with you yesterday on the very right decision to return payments to the military, the police, the rescuers, the very right decision. And I thank everyone who voted for it. But we started hearing separate voices in the ruling party yesterday, and maybe we don't have the budget for that, or maybe we don't have enough? Yes, here's 2 billion dollars from this fund. What is the regional development while there is no victory? This is just one of the possible sources, such sources are many: the national teletaraphone, the roads, the misunderstandings of some credit funds, the guarantee of loans. Yes, today we have the only guarantee that we have is the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which is our security and defence sector. So let's put it all in the last penny, as millions of Ukrainians do today, who give everything away. And we're going to come up with some chips, some bants, and let's vote in Acts, and let's give some money somewhere. All the money to the military is supposed to be our password, and there can be no other password. I call on the Speaker of the Supreme Council to sign the bill as soon as possible, urgently, yesterday, which was voted to return payments to the military, to send to the President. I was petitioning the President's website, and she got the required number of votes. I hope the President will sign it soon. This is the correct use of funds. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u11	Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to support this bill. This bill is the first step towards organizing a situation with various subsidies, which were very often opaque, very often we have heard from public society, from communities, from national deputies about the opacity of subsidies. The bill makes regional development fund subsidies more transparent and more democratic. Yeah, that's just the first step, because we're doing, let's say, a pilot project on the democracy of public budgets. But I'm sure once we've done the whole process this year, we'll come to some conclusions, we'll understand that it's not working, and we'll improve the work of the regional development fund subsidies. This bill allows communities for the first time to choose which state objects to finance. We've never had that. We always have governors, there are national deputies, we chose ministers and so on. Now we say, yes, we're going to take the first step as a project filter, but the community will decide for itself what kind of project they need. I hope that in the coming years we will make all the decisions that will be made by the community. So, colleagues, please support, this is really small, but the first step is to make the regional development fund subsidy, and in the future, hopefully, other subsidies more transparent and more democratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion, we're moving on to making a decision. People's deputies, please prepare. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023 on the use of the funds of the State Regional Development Fund (project No. 9165). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[10:57:57:57]] For 280 Decision taken. I propose to shorten half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 9165. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:58:23]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next bill, 8433. This is a draft law amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine on the use of accounts to support Ukraine. It's the second reading, my esteemed colleagues. On the Conciliation Council, we said there would be about 5-7 amendments to the Fatherland faction, possible amendments by some deputies. And there'll be repairs from the "ES" faction. That's how they handed it to me, but it's for confirmation, we'll put it in the end. First, let's start with those amendments that we're taking into account. The Fatherland faction, do you have any amendments to this bill? None. Thank you. Please, there's also Dmitry Alexanderovich. None. "ES," all you have left is adjustments to whether or not they will. I mean, will they be taken into account? Nina Petrovna Jujanin, you've submitted 7 amendments for confirmation. Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I think about three years ago you were very active in talking about how the previous call was to prepare projects under the tree where you collected everything you wanted in a year. So now you're doing in every draft law. And it's a shame that this bill, like amending the Ukrainian Budget Code, you've prepared for the second reading completely in the new edition, by 99 percent. So I think we've all been deprived of the right to participate in the discussion of the amendments that are now proposed to be taken into account. Please place on confirmation amendment number 6 and head of the committee an explanation of what it means, what does it mean to create these additional conditions that you have written here, about the distribution of dividends and sending them somewhere special? Please explain table of contents 6 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u15	Please, head of the committee. I'll remind you, this is the amendment of 6 of Babak's people's deputies, which is considered partly by the committee. Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u16	We have a government bill of 5529, which was incorporated by this session hall into the 2023 Supreme Council's legislative work plan, which tells us that we will have a new source of revenue from the budget institutions, namely: 30 percent of the dividends of the farm society, which are established or co-founded by universities or scientific institutions. This means that they will not be able to count, these companies will be able not to account for this part of the dividends in the state budget, as required now, for example, by the Cabinet of Ministers, but to use it to stimulate innovation. But I would like to point out that this rule will take effect on January 1, 2024, as we pointed out in the Final Positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u17	Thank you, Your Honor. You heard the questions, you heard the answer. Therefore, the 6th amendment of the Babak People’s Deputy is partially taken into account. Nina Petrovna Jujanina asks that the committee make such a decision for confirmation. I'm going to put the 6th amendment in that part of it for confirmation. I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:02:18]] For 265 6 amendments remain partially accounted for. The next 7 amendments. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u18	7th Amendment. Mrs. Roxolana, you said there was a government bill, we're making amendments to it. Why, would we make the amendments, why didn't you take it to the hall, and now you've brought some of the amendments here? The next amendment is also in our draft laws that we passed on the allocation of funds from the road fund to the construction of the crossing points. You put her in here without talking to any of the MPs about any factions, and now you're offering to take her in. I'm asking you to explain why our draft laws are not being reviewed, and you're taking your amendments into account and making the second reading suddenly at 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u19	Please, the position of the committee, Roxolan Andriyovn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u20	I'd like to point out that it's unfair that we don't discuss this with the factions. On the budget committee of 37 national deputies, representing all factions and groups. We had a subcommittee on which the bill was discussed, and a committee. The committee was nine o'clock yesterday, the final table was given to the people's deputies on Friday last week. I think we've had enough time to discuss this bill in all its formats and this is the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, the 7th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Zarisky. She's a committee member. He asks for such a decision to be made for confirmation. I'm putting the 7th amendment to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:04:15]] For 298 Decision taken. Thank you. Especially were the factions that asked questions and supported them, which meant that Rocksolán Andriyevn convinced them. Thank you. It's a good discussion, it's a parliament. That's right. Please, next amendment 9.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head, you haven't convinced us, and this is the text in our draft laws that you don't make in the hall, so I'm sorry, we support our initiatives here. And as for Mrs. Roxolana, it's not just the members of the committee. I want to participate actively, my colleagues want to participate actively, and if you're making amendments like this, why don't you bring it together? 9th Amendment. Now you're creating two extra funds, and now you're determining the distribution of these funds, and the previous amendment has a new fund. I understand from the previous amendment that these are the initiatives where CO2 is to be spent, not centralized, but in the regions where this tax is paid. And as for the aviation funding of international aviation organizations and so on, the explanation of the 9th amendment at all. We couldn't understand what you were even offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u23	Rocsolana Andriyevna, please explain to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u24	We have a so - called airline in the state budget funded by the State Aviation Service. You know what it used to be, coming was coming from a special fund, and it was financed by congregations that paid for every plane that flew across Ukraine, every civilian plane. Unfortunately, there is no airline now and the State Aviation Service has been deprived of that funding. We've allocated about 50 million dollars this year to support their activities, but unfortunately that's not enough, because aviation workers are very highly qualified specialists. Eurocontrol, an international organization, has offered to support the State Aviation Service of Ukraine and its coworkers with irreparable assistance. We're setting a standard that we can temporarily finance the Eurocontrol Grant Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the 9th amendment of the authorship of Kiesel, the national deputy, is part of the committee. At the same time, Nina Petrovna Yuzanin asks that the committee’s decision be confirmed by the hall. So I'm putting Yuri Grigorovich Kiseil's 9th amendment, which is partially included, in a piece of that that's partially considered, for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:07:17]] For 295 The amendment is confirmed by the room in the section that is partially counted. So thank you. Next amendment 12. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u26	I am now addressing the Head of the Supreme Council. All these amendments relate to a direct violation of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. Again, a proposal is made in an article that was not proposed in the draft law for first reading. I'd like you to comment on the 12th amendment and submit it for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u27	Committee position. Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this is actually an amendment made by the deputies of all factions, and the first author is the author of "Fatherland" Mr. Ivan Ivanovich Krulko. She says this amendment, that the remainder of the subsidies in 2021, all the subsidies given to the local authorities. Local self-government agencies can be used in 2023, as was the case in 2022, to provide territorial defence and/or evacuation of the civilian population. I don't see any problem in supporting this amendment. It seems to me that this will even be the right thing to do, and it will generate additional funds for the local self-government authorities that they can use to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 12th Amendment, this is the authorship of Krulk and other national deputies, it's partially counted. She asks for such a decision to be made by the committee for confirmation. So I'm putting 12 amendments, which are partially included, in the text, as it's considered by the committee, for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:09:26]] For 296 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, next amendment 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u30	Next amendment. Mrs. Roxolano, all of these articles, which you now explain as good, are a direct violation of article 116 of the Rules, this is the law. You break one law and you motivate it with something positive. You can't do that! I'm trying to talk to you about it, and you're saying the same thing again. The 13th amendment refers to what. I'd like to pay attention here, I don't think there's been enough conclusion here for one committee, because this is about local borrowing from international financial organizations to refer to the current expenditures of local budgets. Who worked and studied these contracts? Who knows what conditions, and is there a guarantor of any obligation on our part? Please comment on this item. Why did you include it if, I think, on the first reading, we have some basic articles on how to use it internationally.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u31	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u32	I wouldn't want the Supreme Council to be so formal. I would like to remind you that yesterday 254 national deputies supported a drawback order, which was also filed in violation of article 116 of the Rules. Let's not substitute the point in form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, a hundred. I'm sorry, the 13th amendment of the Kisilevski People's MP is taken into account in an editorial way. Eugene asks for such a decision to be made in an editorial way on the confirmation in the hall. I'm putting 13 amendments in an editorial committee for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:11:39]] For 294 Decision taken. Next, colleagues, 17 amendments. Please, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u34	17 I'm not going to bet on confirmation, but I'd like to ask. Well, of course, we're going to use the rest of the funds for the first time in defense. You opened the Pandora box when you put 99 percent of the contents of the amendment bill into every draft law, contrary to article 116, you opened it. So what you used yesterday and in violation of the 116th vote on the return of 30,000, that means it's your fault, it's your fault, and now we're going to be in violation of the 116th amendment. So, I'm sorry, you're now carrying out a criminal responsibility in general on a lot of things, and someday you'll be responsible for it. And I don't take this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u35	Are we done here? No, I'm sorry, if you don't, you've used a minute, how does this play out with Rules, Nina Petrovna? Let's put 72 in, then, shall we? Let's say 17 doesn't apply, 72-a, and that's final. No, look, you can't just talk for a minute or make a decision. That's why I'm taking the 72nd, dear colleagues. You gave me the list. You gave me a list, my dear colleagues. I'm going according to the list. The 72nd authorship of Zariski is counted. Nina Petrovna, according to the letter I received, asks me to place it. That's the decision to confirm. I'm putting to 72 final amendment, please vote. Then we go to voting for the law as a whole. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:13:42]] For 301 Decision taken. Let us move on to the adoption of the law as a whole, fellow believers. Please be prepared. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending Chapter VI of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine on the use of accounts to support Ukraine (Registration No. 8433). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:14:27]] For 299 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Thank you, Roxolano Andriyevno. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next bill we have is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve bank withdrawal procedures under military conditions (9107 and 9107-1 as an alternative). I'm proposing to include these bills in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. Dear colleagues, vote, please, this is your main job. Please vote. [[11:15:18]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:15:39]] For 258. Decision taken. Please, Danilo Alexanderovich the Getmans. He's both from the authors, and from the committee, four minutes, and then two minutes, and two minutes, and we're against him, and we're voting. Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, some of those present today did not support the inclusion of this bill in the order of the day, and it is a pity because it is a very important bill. You and I passed a law last fall setting out rules for the withdrawal from the market of systems banks that have signs of insolvency. Today the situation has changed somewhat and legislation needs to be clarified again. This is because, according to the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, the National Bank will carry out a comprehensive assessment of the quality of banks' assets and their capacity to pay, taking into account the potential impact of military actions on the capital of banks. And decisions will be made accordingly as a result of such a procedure to ensure the recovery of the bank's capital. However, if the owner of the bank is on a subsanctionary list, or sanctions applied to it, recapitalisation will be impossible and even negotiations with such a person will be complicated enough. So the subsanctioned persons will be removed from this process, and this will result in the loss of investor confidence in such banks, the deterioration of the quality of credit portfolios, and the gradual deterioration of the quality of bank management, which in the case of system banks can have disastrous consequences for the market as a whole, for our investors. And you and I need to understand and remember that banking relations are primarily settled in the interests of investors, primarily in the interests of our fellow citizens. In view of the above, appropriate changes to banking legislation have been developed and the committee recommends the adoption of an appropriate bill, which has been developed in working groups, and a bill bearing the '1' (alternative) badge has emerged. So to adopt this alternative bill on the basis and in general, and thus to ensure the stability of the banking system, to ensure the interests of investors, and, most importantly, to make a decision in favour of the people of Ukraine, not in favour of the subsanctioned persons to whom sanctions have been applied in accordance with current legislation. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u37	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two for, two for, and we will discuss this bill. Please, Andrew Mikhailovich Herus, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u38	Thank you. We heard a statement by Danil Alexandrovich, who explained the importance of this bill, so I urge everyone to support and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u39	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Romanovich Jurczin, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u41	Please, Vasilchenko Galina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u42	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, of course, we will support this bill, it's important and definitely long overdue, I'd say, even look back. But please tell me why the Cabinet of Ministers was so actively convincing us a few months ago that it is urgent that we adopt a similar bill, which has never been signed, which has never entered into force, is simply a waste of time. I want to ask the legislators to be responsible in preparing such important bills so that we do not have to be forced to rewrote again in a matter of weeks or months, so that we do not have to rewrote the same bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u43	Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u44	Thank you, Mr. Head. I think this question doesn't need any further discussion, it's perfectly clear, we understand what time period we're adopting this bill. We can argue that it was with the previous bills, but the decision has to be made now. We will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u46	Thank you. Please pass the word to Nina Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u47	It's a Southern.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, first of all, this bill needed a broad discussion and professional opinion, because such minor actions could break the financial system, its stability, and restore it to the state it was in before 2014, and then re-start cleaning up the entire banking system. So I want to tell you that in this bill, it doesn't apply to the previous one, because it's about getting system banks out of the market that are viable. This is about the cancellation and disqualification of the licenses of any Ukrainian bank, if, in relation to its owner, who has a significant share, the decision of the NSA to impose sanctions on a Ukrainian citizen who has not been proven to be involved with the Russian Federation or the financing of terrorism is taken, but we see how many such decisions are being made now. That is, we asked all working groups, in committee meetings, to make it clear in this law that, if there was a court decision concerning such individuals, there was a court that had already become effective that a person was involved in such acts. It seems to me that the commitments made under the IMF agreement to assess the stability of the 30 banks that are about to begin immediately after the adoption of this draft law will really lead to a resurgence in the banking sphere. We cannot support this draft law, and we ask for a second reading of mandatory meetings with the heads of the National Bank in order to understand clearly what documents will be the basis for their decisions, who they are planning to disqualify, and how this will affect Ukrainian citizens, in their contributions to the banks of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. I'm asking you to take your seats. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal on the basis of the whole as well. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm putting it on the ground, let's keep looking. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve bank withdrawals under martial law (registration No. 9107-1). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:24:15.]] For 274 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in general? Show the factions or what? [[B in m in s a l in]] In general, no. "European Solidarity" against it, right? Okay, thanks. And "The Fatherland," right? All right, I won't bet on it. Thank you. But we have to set up a protocol. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill, 8205, is the second reading. Dear colleagues, we're going to have to sit here a little bit, but. But. Please tell me "Paternity" will be amended, right? Then let's do it in turn, because I don't have a list of your amendments. Let's do it this way. 1 correction, Brainy. Don't insist. 2 revisions, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 3rd, Gerasimov. Don't insist. Four. It's counted. Five o'clock, Dubinsky. Don't insist. 7th, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. Are you insisting? No, there. Ah, Timoshenko and Cimbaluk. Please, Cymbaluk. 7th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u50	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the presidency, the colleagues! In fact, we are grateful to the committee for taking into account our few important rights, but we have remained unapproved by a number of important proposals. First, the number 7 edit says we're proposing to change the name of the editor. We're proposing liquidation of the enterprise, instead of shutting down the enterprise, we're going to have it restructured, that is, merger, merger, division and transformation. This is article 104, which is referred to only in paragraphs 4 and 16. That's why we're going to propose that we actually specify the name of our editor. Please set the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, the 7th amendment of Timoshenko and Cimbaluk was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:00]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Yeah, nine-a, Brainy. Don't insist. 12th, Dubinsky. Don't insist. 13th. Tymoshenko or Czymbaluk — Who? Cimbal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u52	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorary colleagues, issues of creation, activity, reorganization, transformation and liquidation of state-owned enterprises and shareholders, by state share, have already been defined by the Ukrainian Master Code, the Ukrainian Civil Code, the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy, and the Ukrainian Act on the Management of National Property Objects and the Act on Shareholder Associations. The process of liquidation, order and selection, and the mandate of the liquidator, the concepts proposed by the bill, are not in line with the above-mentioned existing legislation of Ukraine. In addition, the creation of a special trust fund and the financing of the termination and bankruptcy procedure, the payment of the liquidator’s reward, is also not provided for by the codes and laws of Ukraine. That's exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the 13th Amendment of Tymoshenko, Cymbaluk, was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:28:38]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Please, 14th, Brainy. Don't insist. 15th, Fraud. Don't insist. 16th, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 17th, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 19th, Dubinsky. Don't insist. 22nd, Puzichuk. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? We haven't reached your amendments yet, Irina Volodymyrna. Well, not everything starts with you, dear fellows. 22nd, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 23rd, Gerasimov. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, you insist. I'm sorry, 22nd Puzichuk. Please. And then there's the 30th you sent me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, let's talk about this bill. This bill actually wants to create a scheme for the withdrawal of state property from state-owned enterprises through bankruptcy. During the war, there is a continuation of the scheme. And yesterday we were looking at a bill that was going to be passed on to agrarian enterprises from the Academy of Agrarian Sciences to the State Property Fund. And today it turns out that businesses in the government of the State Property Fund are actually bankruptcys. The foundation led these companies to bankruptcy. And for today, I have a question for a committee representative. Mr. Movchan, how many companies are planning to shut down the holding fund by bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, Puzichuk's 22nd amendment was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:42]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. 23, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 25, Burmich. Don't insist. 26, Timoshenko, Cimbaluk. Cimbal, please. 26th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u56	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I continue to count the shortcomings of this draft law that we wanted to correct by introducing our professional rights. The proposed provisions of the bill on the accounting of funds derived from the implementation of state-owned assets to the specialized trust fund run counter to our position in the Ukrainian Budget Code. The content of the draft law and the explanatory note to it indicate that the key issue that needs to be addressed only in the process of stopping economic operators is attention! – financing of spending in the process of halting state-owned enterprises and companies with a statutory capital of more than 50 per cent of particle shares belonging to the State. Think about how the authors put the basic task.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, Amendment 26 by Timoshenko, Cymbaluk, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:20]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Yeah, next, 28th, Fraud. Don't insist. 21, Gerasimov. 30th, Ariev. It's considered editorially. You insist on making it all right, don't you? Please, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u58	I insist on taking this amendment fully into account. In general, we need to look at the ideology of this bill right now. And the ideology of this bill is, in fact, that you're proposing the liquidation of state-owned enterprises, at least as it was written. But what's written today in this bill, that there's going to be an end to the owner's decision and so on, and throughout the text, it's going to mean that it's not going to be liquidation, it's going to be the same thing as merger, connection, division, transformation, according to the Civil Code. And this is where the greatest danger lies. I'm running out of time right now, and I just want to explain why in my subsequent amendments. But this is an important moment, and if we don't do it now, we're opening Pandora's box to actually tear down state property.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, 30 amendments, 30 amendments. It's considered editorially. Her author, National Deputy Ariev, asks that she be taken fully into account. So please identify and vote. [[11:34:08]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Next amendment, yes, 36, Timoshenko, Cimbaluk. Cimbal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u60	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. As we continue our proposals for this bill, I would like to stress the following. The existence of a moratorium on the enforcement of state-owned assets and companies with at least 25 per cent of statutory capitals, the organizational arrangements for the cessation of economic operators, the cessation period, the requirement for liquidator, the rights of state-owned authorities, the cessation of enterprises, the privatisation process itself. It is worth noting that all these elements are related to the subject matter of regulation of valid laws, they have already foreseen everything, such as the Civil and Master Codes of Ukraine, the Act of Ukraine on the Management of State Property Objects, the Act on Shareholder Associations, and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the 36th Amendment of Tymoshenko, Cimbaluk. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:35:45.]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Yeah, next amendment to 40, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 43rd, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 44th, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 45th, Silent. Don't insist. 46th, Burmich. Don't insist. 50th, Ariev, right? Please. It's partially recalculated. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u62	Yes, I have all the adjustments taken into account in part, I want you to take them into account. So I continue to make sense of what we do. If we're now adopting a law with terminology that stops instead of liquidation, we're creating an opportunity for: (a) people who have certain influences and financial possibilities, just very simply by simple procedure enough, by simplified means, to get control of these enterprises. Because now, during the war, during the active phase of the war, most of the state-owned enterprises are in a situation where they're approaching bankruptcy, they're in very difficult conditions. And if we're actually adopting this law in this way today, it means that those who have money today say that there are no oligarchs, maybe there are no old ones anymore, but there will be new ones, because the money now knows who, then we'll find out that the state is actually going to be eliminated.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u63	Honorary colleagues, 50 amendments made by national deputy Gerasimov and Ariev, are included in part. The Ariev People’s Deputy requires that this amendment be fully taken into account. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:37:43]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, I'm looking at who, 56, Puzichuk. Don't you insist? Uh, 53rd, I'm sorry. 53rd, Ariev. 53rd, Ariev, partially counted. Please, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, look, over the last two years that we've been observing, in fact, all the businesses that were submitted before. Transferred to the State Property Fund, then carried behind them such a chauffeur of great scandal. And today even the Head of the State Property Fund is the former one in search of damages to the state. And today we see that huge businesses like Electric Power or the largest manufacturer of OHC titanium, they're approaching bankruptcy, which is actually an extermination procedure. Do you think you can actually get control after that? So if the elimination makes this process more difficult, because of the termination of the merger, the division, the transformation, we're in a situation where we're putting the enterprise at risk. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u65	The 53th Amendment of Gerasimov and Arieva is partially taken into account. The authors insist on taking full account. I'll take that offer from the authors. Please identify and vote. [[11:39:28]] For-57 The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. The next amendment is 56. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u66	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mr. Silent, I'm addressing you again. Please tell your colleagues, how many businesses are planned to be eliminated by bankruptcy? This question has been discussed, you've spoken at a subcommittee meeting, and there is a need for everyone to be aware of the procedure in which the number of enterprises has been launched. And the second. Explain to your colleagues why these businesses are leading to bankruptcy. And if you read the conclusion of the Court of Auditors, this actually happened between the years 2019 and 2022 when Mr. Sennichenko, Head of the Foundation of State, was announced for international search yesterday. Two questions. Number of enterprises. And the second is why they're going to go bankrupt. Ruslan Alexiyovich, please give us an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u67	The answer can only be given to the position of the committee on the amendment, not to the reason for the meditation that can be carried out on the committee. Please have your 56-correction position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u68	First. The amendment is rejected because it's not about what you said. And with regard to this bill, it's very important to bring about a system of state-run enterprises, many of which today have signs of insolvency. It's actually pre-privatisation or pre-bankruptcy procedure to determine the way these enterprises are going to go -- either to stop, or to privatize, or to bankruptcy. This bill does not conflict with other legislation on termination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u69	Please 56 Puzichuk correction. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:41:48]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 59th. Cimbal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u70	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, honourable reporter, in fact, I have listed above all the legislative acts and codes that provide for the process of liquidation of state-owned enterprises as part of the state, which is 50 percent or more. Because of this, there is no need to adopt a separate bill. During the war, it is very important that those state-owned objects that are at risk of bankruptcy today are in good hands, I mean, not liquidators, but managers of the government on behalf of the state who attempted to withdraw the enterprise because of the separation of state property.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u71	59th Amendment, Timoshenko, Cimbaluk. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:43:19]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Please, 57th, Gerasimov, Ariev. Ariev, please. It's considered editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of the appearance of some of the oligarchs you are fighting. And they came up, for example, to mention Rinat Leonidovich or Pinchuk, who received all the preferences during the privatization of state assets just when they first became artificially bankrupt and then separated and through cunning schemes passed on to the new oligarchs. So, what you're proposing today is you're actually proposing to legitimize the same property redistribution. If you leave it that way today, it opens up, I say again, Pandora's box. And then there will be new oligarchs, because today there is not enough money in Rinata Leonidovich or Viktor Mikhailovich, but in the new ones who are closer to power today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u73	The 57th Amendment of Gerasimov, Arieva, is edited. The authors insist on taking full account. I'm betting on the authors' offer. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:54]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. The edit remains edited. 61st, Ariev, Herasimov. Don't insist. 63rd, Timoshenko. Cimbal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u74	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Thank you, Mr. Head. Well, actually, it's very sad that our proposals don't count. We can see that the papers are not coming through, and that's not going to improve this bill. As a result, in the way he is, we see what we have taken into account in the second reading. Some technical changes have been made. So, for example, a state-owned enterprise has been turned into an object of termination, the owner of a state-owned enterprise, and so on. Dear colleagues, we should not forget that, in fact, a few dozen businesses and not always the state's fault have gone bankrupt. But it is very important to know who will be the windbreaker, how he will handle the matter, whether the debt is paid to the wage workers, whether all the taxes are paid, or whether they simply get paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u75	Thank you, Your Honor. Amendment 63, it's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:46:38]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next 65, Ironman. Don't insist. 66th, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 67th, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 68th, Burmich. Don't insist. The '70s, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 71st, Gerasimov. Don't insist. Next, 75th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. Is he insisting? 75th Puzichuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u76	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ruslan Alexiyovich, representatives of the Fatherland faction insist on all their amendments, so let's go to the table. Dear colleagues, let's still discuss this bill. What our colleagues are saying is that we're really creating a model, an asset withdrawal scheme from state-owned enterprises. And you think about the figure, for today it's about 1,000 300 state-owned enterprises. At a meeting of the subcommittee, the head of the Bankruptcy Department of the State Property Fund for video recording notes under the transcript that his task is to ensure the interests of creditors. Think about it: A representative of the State Property Fund does not aim to protect the interests of the State, not to protect the interests of the State Property Fund, but rather to protect creditors.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u77	75 Puzichuk's correction is rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:48:30.]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the 77th Amendment of Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko and she asked her to give 5 minutes instead of her amendments. Please, Julia Volodymyr, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, yes, the legendary Bill 8205. You just put off what it is, yeah. One thousand 200 to one thousand 300 state - owned enterprises, or where there are state - owned stakes, are simply being wiped out. Dear friends, I want to remind you in 2019 that when a man was in office as the holding fund, there was a man coming in, September 2019, Dmitri Sennichenko, where it was said that it was dawn at all to bring state property into order. You remember what was said in these rostrums, that it was a man who would return to the state everything that it had lost over the years. For three years, this man, along with the IPG created inside, well, the criminal formation inside the Holding Fund, robbed the country. The result is the case of the NAB, which is being investigated, and now the National Court of Auditors, which turned all this information out and said that 90 billion of it was stolen from the State Property Fund in the three years of the holding group’s reign. Three years worked beautifully. Now I have a simple question. What's going on now? You understand what's going on during the war is about 1 thousand 200 to 1 thousand 300, up to 3,000 600 businesses that can be eliminated. This is the first complete deindustrialization of our country. It's just an incredible mugging of everything the Ukrainian people have. This is the closure of the future for the rebirth of the country after the victory. How should we act? It would be necessary for a state to have any such enterprise that has a farm, all of its failed communications, practically fully oriented towards manufacturing an enterprise, to have every such enterprise, such as value, take in hand, restore, give it a new life, conduct an import program, and conduct a program for rebuilding local production. Instead, it is not just liquidation, but the law establishes that everything that the State receives from liquidation is not budgeted in violation of the Budget Code, but rather a special fund that is set up separately from the budget. And for this money that will be made available from the sale of our national values, our enterprises, 1 thousand 200 - 1 thousand 300, this will be aimed at financing the further liquidation of state-owned enterprises in Ukraine. And what's more, this law is running a competition for liquidators who are better eliminated. Do you understand what this is? They will stimulate private enterprises that are willing to come down on more favourable conditions for the state. It's, you know, it's called, a little informal word that ends with "ec." I don't know where else you're going. And I want to ask who the author of this policy is. Earth, all utilities, that's what's going on in the ownership of enterprises, everything is going to be broken down. Already 1,000 200 - 1 thousand 300 businesses will never be able to be restored. You're blocking the country's path to the future. That's the question. And that's why I'm simply asking you not to vote for these things. Bill 8205 is the end of the industrialization of the country, and this is the end of our subjectivity with regard to the production of important, absolutely important industrial products. That is all that is being done now is essentially ending Ukraine as a subject both inside the internal market and on the outside. We need to immediately invite one of the members of the Court of Auditors to report to you three years ago when they said that everything was wonderful. We need to listen to the NAB what they will say about the cases that have been broken. The concept in Parliament is to confirm how we deal with our state property, state enterprises. To hold the guilty responsible and then to control the state’s property, not to eliminate it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, 79th Arjev. Partially counted. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I have not forgotten the names of those people we call oligarchs, and I would like to remind you, in particular, of another oligarch who has ceased to be a citizen of Ukraine, but the oligarch has remained – Igor Kolomoyski. He's a master of raiding. So in this case, if we're talking about stopping, which includes all of the things that I've already counted, this is a merger, and this is a redistribution, so you're giving the surveyors a chance to get in and completely control the state-owned enterprises that go bankrupt or end up in a very bad economic situation. You say it's preparations for privatization. But that's great, I'm in favor of privatization, but you need to privatize, sell at the top, at the top, not at the bottom. Now you're actually the scum of state property.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u81	79. Amendments by Gerasimov and Ariev It's partially accounted for, and the authors insist on full accounting. I'm betting on the authors' offer. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:45]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 84th. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, we may really need to invite our colleague Rustem Umerov to Parliament and listen to him about the activities of his predecessor, Mr. Sennick, that have taken place. Because, colleagues, from the conclusion of the Court of Auditors, I read: "The competitive selection of applicants to replace the vacant positions of directors of state-owned enterprises in 2020-2021 was quite slow and ineffective. The competitive selection of heads of state-owned enterprises by the State-owned Property Fund was not limited, the managers were not appointed, but were appointed temporarily to mandate them on the recommendation of the Fund's working group of managers." So actually, for three years, a large number of businesses have been without managers, and they've been artificially bankrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u83	Please, 84 revisions of Puziczuk, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:13]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. 82nd, Gerasimov, Ariev. Please, Ariev. Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, as we go back to the topic of preparations for privatization, which was discussed by the honourable chairman of the committee in one of his comments: privatization is a normal democratic process, market economy and European standards -- that's where we're going. But we don't have to sell at least, and everyone knows that. No, there'll be a lot of buyers at the minimum, but there'll be buyers who will then, through cunning schemes, be able not to buy it, but to seize it. Sell when it's going really expensive. And I would very much like this bill to be considered after the war, after the state of war has been lifted and the economy has begun to come to life. Instead, we are again opening up many opportunities for the unclean to the people. Let's not do it so openly, though. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u85	The 82th Amendment of Gerasimov, Arieva, is partially taken into account. The authors insist on taking full account. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:45.]] For-54 The correction remains partially accounted for. Next amendment, 85th. Please, Ariev again.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, once again, speaking of this bill, we have a task today: if you make privatization, it will be as effective for the state as possible. Nevertheless, today this bill opens up, in fact, a great deal of latrines for people who are unclean on hand. And there's even concrete evidence of this -- it's the work of the previous Head of the State Property Fund, who was suspected of causing damage to the state for almost half a billion dollars. So in this case, at least let's investigate what happened before we open up new possibilities so that we can still have answers to the questions that are being investigated by the former Head of the Maintenance Fund, who is being searched today. So take your time, or at least don’t do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u87	The 85th Amendment of Gerasimov, Arieva, is partially taken into account. The authors insist on taking full account. I'm betting on the authors' offer. Please identify and vote. [[12:00:19]] For-45 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. The following changes. Yes, 91st, Puzichuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, according to the Court of Auditors: As a result of these actions, the management of state-owned enterprises over the period 2020-21 years were appointed by the Fund to carry out the duties of directors of state-owned enterprises, which does not meet the requirements of part three of article 65 of the Ukrainian Code of Master. Thus, government management was carried out, not by executives, but by performing duties that were a gross violation. Maybe today we need to assign heads of state-owned enterprises first, and then do audits, do inventory, find out what assets there are in these enterprises, and only then be determined, it can re-establish activity, it can be privatized, or it can be privatized.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the 91st Puzichuk amendment, was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:01:58]] For-47 The decision is not taken. 92nd, Ariev, please. It's partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u90	Yes, I insist on taking full account. I want to remind you once again that the most important thing in this text, where the main problems are stuck, is terminology. And to replace a halt that, according to the Civil Code, offers very broad possibilities for various manipulations and manipulations, for elimination. And after the liquidation, it was appropriate to sell and sell businesses and their property. But if we do it today, we're actually going to do it to the state. At least we're laying a pretty serious foundation for this, and the damage to the state that has already been caused by the findings of the investigation by the former Head of the State Property Fund, that's why confirmation that the cracks, they remain, and this law, in principle, does not eliminate them. So let's not rush, but if you're in a hurry, then it turns out that, as always, you're in a hurry, and then you're saying, "Oh, why did we do that?".. Not the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u91	92 Amendment of Gerasimov, Arieva It's partially accounted for. The authors insist on taking full account. So, your honors, I ask you to identify yourself and vote. [[12:03:33]] For-56 The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. 95th, Ariev again. Edited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u92	Thank you. I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that privatization, which is being prepared under such conditions, can be very harmful to Ukraine and will cause it damage. Because I understand that today we're looking for opportunities to invest additional funds in the budget, but it's cost-sharing, no one's going to sell, no one's going to sell their property, you know, honorary colleagues, you're not going to sell it for a living, even if you really need it. So I urge everyone to think again today that we are opening up not only opportunities for sale, but also in general to capture state-owned enterprises according to the scheme, if we leave the same definitions that exist in this bill right now. All over the bill, I propose to replace "stop" with "disposal," and this is a very important moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u93	95 Amendment of Gerasimov, Arieva Edited. The authors insist on taking full account. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:05:05]] For-50 The decision is not taken. The edit remains edited. Puzichuk, 98th Amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u94	94th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u95	You said you'd only put the rejected, and the 94th, it's taken into account editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u96	Let's put it on. Edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u97	No, you said you'd bet only rejected. So please, 98th, Puzichuk, rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u98	Ruslan Alexiyovich, we make all the adjustments, including those that are edited and partially taken into account. Please put it on 94.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u99	I'm betting on 94 amendments, it's taken into account editorially. You insist on the whole thing, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u100	Please renew your time. Time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u101	Please update Puzichuku time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u102	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorary colleagues, when accepting state enterprises for the administration of the State Property Fund, did not provide information on their composition, the total area of buildings and buildings on an individual basis, the area of land, the primary and residual, and the cost of the core funds. Tell me, how can you determine today whether a business needs to be eliminated or not, or should it be brought into bankruptcy? Non-inventory, no corporate managers, undetermined what are assets, undetermined creditors, receivables. Maybe we should invite the Head of the State Property Fund and listen to him, listen to his vision, and also listen to the position of the Ministry of Economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u103	Thank you. Mr. Andrew, look, I want to ask you. If you are already taking all your amendments, please report as corrected. I'd appreciate it if you'd stick to this rule. And while I'm putting in 94 amendments, which are edited, the Puzijczuk People's Deputy requires full consideration. So please identify and vote. [[12:07:21]] For-57 The amendment remains edited. 98th, Puziychuk. This amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Ruslan Alexiyovich, we are discussing not only the amendments but also the bill. Ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u105	And according to the Rules, you have to discuss the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u106	Our colleagues need to understand the essence of the bill and understand what we are voting for during the war. So this bill is actually going to lead to the loss of property by the state. The Fatherland faction offers very concrete constructive steps, starting with the first: inviting law enforcement officials, inviting NAB representatives, listening to them about the activities of the previous head of the State Property Fund, who was announced for international search yesterday. For three years, man has created schemes, and this is a continuation of these schemes, for which we will vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u107	98 Puzichuk correction rejected. Please identify and vote. [[12:08:48]] For-58 The decision is not taken. The following is Amendment 99, Gerasimov, Ariev. Please, Ariev. It's considered editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u108	However, I would very much like my colleagues to listen to what we are proposing and not just vote without understanding the situation in which Ukraine and its state enterprises may find themselves, and yet we have studied the matter deeply. I think it's a question of Parliament's responsibility here, because we're not talking about something else right now, but about the state property that costs billions. And if by our definitions, in particular formulations and terminology, we're opening up opportunities for ratings and capture or shadow privatization, we need to talk more seriously and take it not at a fast pace, but to create a really serious study group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u109	99 revisions, edited by Gerasimov and Ariev, insist on full accounting. I'm betting on the authors' offer. Please identify and vote. [[12:10:26]] For-50 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains edited. Next amendment 101. Please, Ariev. It's also considered editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u110	We had these isolated moments when previously privatized enterprises were returning to the state and then they were being implemented at a real price. Therefore, if we are to keep in mind the new history of Ukraine, we need to understand that everything that has already fallen into someone’s lap is gone forever. And if we are talking today about making privatization as effective as possible, we really need to create conditions for it. We're creating conditions for a new "acceptance" precisely because of this terminology that I'm talking about in every correction, because every amendment specifically refers to a very important moment, replacing the word "stop" with "disposal," because stopping is much more important in the Civil Code than eliminating it, and it really creates conditions for different schemes to take place. I'm asking you to think and support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u111	Yes, the 101th Amendment of Gerasimov, Arieva, is partially counted. The authors insist on taking full account. I'll put this amendment to the vote. Please vote. [[12:12:03]] For-47 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 109. Please, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u112	I would really like us to have full information now, before voting, to have full information about what has been going on in recent years at the State Property Fund during the headship of a person who is now in the state search for the submission of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Because these things that have happened have to be eliminated and then taken into account in all the legislation that we're adopting with a view to conducting effective privatization. So once again, I'm asking everyone not to rush. If we're in a hurry, we create conditions, you know, which are good and quality lawyers, who have long-standing teeth for government property, and how they can buy courts. And this was not once in the history of Ukraine. So once again, please, colleagues, take your time, think seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u113	109 Amendment, Gerasimova, Arieva Partially counted. At the same time, the authors insist on taking full account. I'm betting on the authors' offer. Please vote. [[12:13:38]] For-46 The decision is not taken. 111th. Please, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u114	It is difficult to be the voice of the one crying in the wilderness, especially during the Passionous Week. But I'll try again. Dear colleagues, you are now indeed, I understand that everyone is now more busy with his affairs in his majority and monotony, so hardly my arguments will be heard, but I won't respect myself if I don't say them. This bill opens Pandora's box to abuse schemes of shadow privatization and raiding, especially in the way it is now. Please don't hurry, because these bills that apply to government property are not accepted in the area, they're very serious things. And then it'll be very embarrassing and painful. In the vast majority of cases, if laws were passed to specific types of action, then it would become really embarrassing. So I ask you again, please listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u115	111 Amendment, Gerasimova, Arieva In part, the committee made such a decision. The authors insist on taking full account. I'm betting on the authors' offer. Please identify and vote. [[12:15:13]] For-47 The decision is not taken. The amendment remained partially accounted for. 116th Puzichuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u116	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I return to the report of the Court of Auditors. The Fund for Information Analysis, which is submitted to the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine to meet the requirements of order 832, provides information that does not meet the actual data, particularly regarding the alienation of state property. Audit testified that the Fund’s monitoring of state-owned enterprises in its management over the period 2020 - 21 was formal and did not have any impact on the results of the activities of these holdings, these operators. That is to say, in fact, what it says is that the State Property Fund was an inefficient steward of state property and state enterprises. And what's planned is to go bankrupt in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u117	116 Puzichuk's correction. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[12:16:42]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. One second. 118th, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u118	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, listen to the numbers. 90 per cent of state-owned enterprises in the area of administration of the Regional Department of State Property in the Odessa and Mikolai oblasts do not have land-based documents: land areas in nature, area, land borders, and so on are not specified, state-owned enterprises are not assigned to cadastral land numbers. What does this talk about? These are areas on the coast of the Black Sea. These are areas on the seashore in the Mikolai district. These are the best lands. I mean, look, the land is not inventoryd at all, it's not state-owned. And instead, now that the state has legally acquired ownership of these areas, are you planning to liquidate them, eliminate these enterprises?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u119	Please, 118, Puzichuk, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:18:18]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 119th, Ariev, please. Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u120	This is the last amendment I want to make in full account of what I've given.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u121	Is it just the 119th?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u122	Yes, 119 revisions. I already told you what I wanted. But, you know, every time we open a session, we get up and sing the hymn, we show what patriots we are, we say, "Glory to Ukraine!"We answer, "Heroy of Glory!"we also show our patriotism. So I call you, after all, to patriotism that is active, not just in words, not just in its manifestations that we do at the beginning of the session. So active patriotism is to preserve the property of the state or to act in ways that benefit the state. Because today's bill actually opens up opportunities for the state to suffer damage. I ask you once again to vote against this bill as a whole in its current edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u123	The 119th Amendment of Gerasimov and Arieva, part of the committee, insists on full accounting. I'm putting this motion to a vote and I'm asking you to vote. [[12:19:50]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Thank you, colleagues, the readjustment remains partially accounted for. The next amendment is 121. Puziczuk, please. She's been rejected by the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u124	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'll continue with the report of the Accounting Chamber. Respectful colleagues, inefficient management decisions of the fund and delays in the process of privatization and the sale of six large - privatization objects have resulted in ineffective use of budget funds. As a result of the improper exercise of powers by officials of the State Property Fund to privatize the state-owned power plant, the state budget was damaged, with signs of service negligence, the funds not recovered from the state budget. Once again, colleagues, the State Property Fund is an inefficient body that manages government assets. And for today, we need to listen to the new Head of the Holding Fund, which is the fund's strategy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u125	121 Puzichuk's correction was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:21:20]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Please, 126th Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u126	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Colleagues, audits have shown that the Fund is not adequately monitored for the performance of the functions of the authorized authority for the administration of public property and for the efficient use and preservation of state property. Listen, it's explicitly stated that as a result of the action, the inactivity, the ineffective actions of the previous management of the State Property Fund, the state loses its property, the state loses its business. So we need to hear a report from the Court of Auditors on the activities of the previous manager and listen to the concept that our colleague Rustem Umerov sees regarding further development. Ruslan Alexiyovich, this is my extreme correction. We can see that the hall does not support structural repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u127	126. Amendment of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. She's been rejected by the committee. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine and vote. [[12:22:54]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Let me ask you again, Mr. Andrey, you're recording all your corrections, right? Wait, there are other colleagues besides you, maybe anyone who wants to put up. I want you to record what you've taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the deputies to the hall. And while I'm walking around with my other colleagues, they might still have some repairs. 131st, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 134th, Mama. Don't insist. 135th, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 140th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 146th, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 151st, Puziychuk. Don't insist. 155th, Gerasimov. Don't insist. Next. 162nd, Puziychuk. Don't insist. 165th, Puziychuk. Don't insist. 168th, Mama. Don't insist. 171, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 173rd, Puziychuk. Don't insist. 174th, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 175th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 182th, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 184th, Ruššin. Don't insist. 185th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 188th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 189th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 191st Puziychuk. Don't insist. 198, Puziychuk. Don't insist. 200th, Herasimov doesn't insist. 201st, Burmich. Don't insist. 205, Ironborn. Don't insist. 206, Puziychuk. Don't insist. 208th, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 210th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 212th, Burmich. Don't insist. 223, Puziychuk. Don't insist. 224th, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 226th, Burmich. Don't insist. 230th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 231st, Mama. Don't insist. 238, Mama. Don't insist. 239, Dubinsky. Don't insist. 241, Gerasimov. Don't insist. 243, Burmich. Don't insist. 244th, Puziyczuk said he didn't insist. 246, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 248, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 250th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 252, Puziychuk. Don't insist. 253, Gerasimov. Don't insist. Yeah, 255th. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you said you didn't insist, you're a gentleman. 255, Batenko. Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who insists? None. We have completed the adjustments that apply to accounting. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know, I know, for a second, the ones that apply to accounting. And then we have six more amendments that are going to be put to the confirmation, and then we vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Right, colleagues? I give the floor to Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, he calls the amendment number. I take it you're going to put it first to 302nd Stepan Ivanovich for confirmation. Please, Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u128	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, above all Alexia, I spoke to him on the committee today, he took for a very difficult piece of work that worked very hard. But there is still much work to be done from the point of view of international standards and international work. At the same time, 302 amendments to the liquidation of a state - owned enterprise, its representative, acting on the basis of trust, is obliged to make a decision on termination within three days and beyond. I'd like to pay attention here, dear colleagues. We're talking about liquidation or the mechanism of more than a thousand enterprises. To do this, we need to conduct audits, look properly at government land acts, so that we don't create a mortgage future of troubled lending and houses from work and from the workforce. Thank you. Please place your head, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u129	Thank you. 302 The amendment by Gerasimov and Ariev is part of the committee. At the same time, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba asks the committee to submit such a decision for confirmation. Do I get it right? I'm betting on confirmation of 302 amendments in the editorial form in which it's part of the committee. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:28:14]] For 242 Decision taken. Amendment 302 remains partially taken into account. Stepan Ivanovich, 307th next, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u130	Yes. Dear colleagues, we're talking about the termination and written report of the monitoring authorities at the place where the taxpayer is billed, the initiation of a procedure for the liquidation of the state-owned enterprise. You know, at a time of war, when we're talking about industry, agribusiness, a chemical industry, where innovation is needed, where we're talking about the state's industrial state policy, where we're talking about integration, which is appropriately reflected in the Ministry of Economics, the integration of legislative acts, the issue of technology renewal, intellectual property, I would like to say that we should not go according to the system of schemes. Each enterprise in the sector should, when eliminated, make a decision, comply with the procedure, legislative and integrated legislative acts that we have adopted on the state's policy of European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u131	Honorable colleagues, 307 amendments by Gerasimov and Arieva, are included in part. The National MP of Cuba requests that the committee make such a decision for confirmation. I'm betting on confirmation of the 307 revision of the edition, which is part of the committee. Please vote. [[12:29:57]] For 265 Decision taken. The amendment remains included in the text in which it is taken into account by the committee. Stepan Ivanovich, next, you said, 423rd, 424th, but they're rejected. I can't take them into account, so I'll just put them in 425. Please, Stepan Ivanovich, 425th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u132	Dear Mr. Head, when we talk about reports coming in on the use of funds, we should have real terms, real terms, and real support for standards for carrying out related terminations. So I would suggest that in order to support the liquidation of any enterprise, we have to have: (a) audit, (b) sector-specific segments and inventory of land areas where there are state acts on the ground. When we talk about state policy, it must be the nature of legal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u133	Please be brief. Please, Alexei Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u134	Yes. Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill. The bill was worked on by experts from the World Bank, the Law-Justice Project of the European Union, the Ministry of Justice, the State Property Fund, the Committee. It's in order to bring together the thousands of 300 businesses that are now in the Syrian zone, with which it's not clear what to do: privatize, bankrupt or liquidate. It's a procedure for preparing for bankruptcy or privatization, or for liquidation, it's very important. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u135	The 425 revision of Gerasimov and Arieva is partially taken into account. The Cuban National MP makes this decision to the committee for confirmation. So I'm going to put 425 amendments to the edition, which is part of the committee, on confirmation. Please vote. [[12:32:24]] For 267 Decision taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. Stepan Ivanovich, all right? Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let's move on to making a decision. Please be prepared. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law on the characteristics of termination by the owner of state-owned enterprises and companies with a statutory capital of more than 50 per cent of shares (parts) belonging to the State (registration No. 8205). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:33:17]] For 226 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Everyone's gonna walk now. Yes, one voice of European Solidarity. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the following bill 8410: draft law amending the Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:34:18]] For 271 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:34:40]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss whether we can. Can we? Is that right, Julia Volodymyr? Please. Then let's do two in, two in, two in. Would you please tell me, besides Fatherland, someone wants to talk? Yeah. Then two in a row, two in a row. Then please. Please, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to depart, because two factions have just signed up. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, then Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, and we vote. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u136	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, when we talk about Bill 8410, it's actually a very important stated purpose of this bill. And it's about implementing the principles of the digitization of the permit procedure, reducing the time limits for the production of documentation, reducing the discretionary powers of the authorized authority. So this is actually a positive thing. And when free documentation is transferred to digitalization, it's really necessary. But there are also risks. And the risk is that, despite some of the relevant innovations on digitization and harmonization of the documentation process, the bill contains corruption risks and numerous essential observations. It undermines the public rights provided by the Aarhus Convention on Access to Environmental Information, reduces their ability to participate in this procedure, and raises public concerns. Digitization should make it easier to access rather than restrict it. This is especially true in rural areas and in older generations or generations of respectable age. Right, there should be practice when democratic rights develop in the direction of expanding access and opportunities for the public. Dear colleagues, it is they who own the territory that must have the primary.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u137	Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u138	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u139	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" does not vote in favour of laws that restrict public control, especially in such an important area as ecology. This project reduces public participation in environmental impact assessment. And despite the positive aspects that are really involved in this law, it greatly increases the risk of environmental damage not only because of fighting but also because of the artificial influence of harmful businesses. We cannot agree with the shortening of the time frame for public discussion of planned activities. The bill proposes to reduce from 20 working days to 12. Such short - term cuts have no objective reasons and cannot be justified by either a military strategy or a military economy. In most countries of the European Union, the term is one month at all. And shortening it can only be explained by trying to prevent effective public control. In addition, it is suggested that the general procedure for public discussion be abolished throughout the country. But, excuse me, in areas where fighting isn't taking place right now, what's damaging to public discussion? Why should they not be conducted? What explanation could be in a simplified way of informing, for example, in the same Johno-Frankow region? While we understand that the proposed way of informing, when instead of a press release, is literally advertising in parking lots near the offices of Krašta, it's not transparency, and it has no relation at all to public control, it's about corruption and conscious damage to the environment where they're not supposed to be. Since this project is not in line with European practice and is damaging to European integration, we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. People's deputies please take their seats. We're moving on to a decision. Please, Your Honor. Please be prepared. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act (registration number 8410). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:40:45.]] For 253 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next Bill 7438. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use and circulation of pyrotechnic articles. Dear colleagues, we agreed that there would be a single amendment. Who? Heroceno? What's the number, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u142	I ask for confirmation of Amendment 102.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u143	No, wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u144	103rd and 99th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u145	That's what I'm talking about. Look, we talked. I've written that, we've completed our communication on the Conciliation Council, one possible amendment to the EC faction, one, to count. Who's it gonna be? Napkin. Please, Shpak. Tell me about the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u146	90 revisions. Thank you. It's clear that there's no pyrotechnics at the time of the war. Yet, we are destroying the entire field for today. Still, it is a quick victory that we must celebrate. Let's just do this for a period of military ban. There is no such thing in any EU country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u147	Please, National Deputy Sheepling Yulia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u148	Good afternoon, colleagues. Mental health is a matter of national security for us. Today, according to article 3 of the Constitution, man, his life, health, is the highest social value. How will we look into the eyes of our heroes who defend the front? How do we continue to go with you and protect our heroes in the first place? Next. We forbid category F2, F3, F4. We're talking about pyrotechnics that affect people's health. PTSD is not a problem one day or a war period, you know, it's a problem for decades. And our task with you is to protect the health, mental health of our people. By supporting this bill, we'll celebrate with you, you know, how? For many minutes the silence and hugs of our family in the name of our heroes. So, dear colleagues, please support the bill. It protects the mental health of our people and benefits our free and independent country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, 90 amendments. You're insisting on putting it up, aren't you? I'm betting 90 amendments to the authorship of Razumkov, Dmitri and other colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:43:49]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Please, Irina Volodymyrna, we agreed that there would be one amendment, where during the state of war, and five years after that, to ensure. Right? Is there an amendment like that? If not, I put the bill to the vote. Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u150	I have the right as a national MP to make an amendment. I'm going to put 99 amendments and 102 amendments for confirmation. This is Mr. Dirdin and Mrs. Shepherd. Please give me two minutes, and then we'll put them in for confirmation. We're discussing a very serious bill to get into a puffos cheap. We need to be very serious about veteran policies that are not in the state. There is a Department of Veterans, and there are no veteran politicians, including the mental health of our veterans. Let the minister resign and appoint professional people to allow us to have amputees and mental - health policies and psychologists to work. As for this bill, we are going to the European Union with you and we are telling you that there are no such rules in any country of the European Union. During the military period, we are banned from pyrotechnics, and that is correct, and here we must punish those who apply it. It's in your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u151	Please, 99th, the position of the committee. The eunuch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u152	Honorable colleagues in Ukraine may be the only country in Europe to survive war after World War II. The only reason is because you and I decide how to maintain the health of our people. Once again, there are three categories of pyrotechnics. We forbid the first category of fireworks: F2, F3, F4. We don't forbid the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the National Police, the DSNS, we don't ban stage pyrotechnics. We're not banning another category of products, it's rocket models, yes, it's building separately, it's training pyrotechnics. Only fireworks that have the highest level of noise are triggers for our people. Every other Ukrainian has been wounded since this war. So our job is to get these triggers off as much as possible so that there's no effect and no exacerbation of post-traumatic syndrome, because it's a disease that almost every Ukrainian is suffering. So once again, we are implementing article 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the 99th Amendment, be careful with the authorships of the Shepherd and Bondarenko. She's a committee member. National MP Heratschenko requests that the committee make such a decision for confirmation. So I'm putting 99 amendments that are counted on confirmation. Please vote. [[12:46:59]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. And 102th, right? The 102nd Dirdin, it's partially accounted for. Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are really discussing an important bill that "European Solidarity" supports. And we want to ask the ruling party to impose severe fines on the National Police and condemn those who violate the rules on the use of pyrotechnics during wartime. Because it's not allowed right now, but some people can, you know, smoke salutes even in the center of Kiev. This must be forbidden. At the same time, we propose to adhere to European legislation, to introduce a transitional term five years after the end of the war when the pyrotechnics are banned, and then to return to normal peace. Because it's also a matter of discussion. Excuse me, returning to a peaceful life is also mental health. Although we fully agree that the period of the state of war and the time after the state of war for five years, there should be this pause. This is what we propose to put into law. Thank you. And then we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u155	Well, that's a different amendment. Okay, well, now we're voting specifically for this amendment. Please, Mrs. Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I think we all feel the need of society now. If such a need disappears after consultations, we consulted and consulted the All-U.S. Psychological Association, with experts, with scientists, if such a need goes away, and we see that we are ready and society is ready, we have voted 25 thousand people, we will definitely support it. But for the time being, the demand of society is that we must support it in order to protect our citizens once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 102 amendments, it's taken into account by the committee in part, it's the authorship of the National Deputy Dirdin. At the same time, National Deputy Heratschenko requests that the committee make such a decision for confirmation. So I'm putting 102 revisions in a partial committee for confirmation. Therefore, I ask the people's deputies to vote. [[12:49:31]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. We've concluded this bill, we're moving on to a decision. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use and circulation of pyrotechnic articles (registration number 7438) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:50:13]] For 290 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. 9051, this is the draft Act amending Chapter IV of the Act on Consumer Credit on the characteristics of consumer credit in wartime situations. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:51:05]] For 295 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:51:27]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. With the discussion, yes, I understand. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please. Dear colleagues, three men signed up, please don't split, there'll be a quick vote. Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u158	Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u159	Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, it's a very good decision, it's a restructuring of people's debts to consumer loans during the war. Clearly, it is a faithful law. Of course, consumer credit is sometimes transformed into a Damocle sword for people. War has created additional problems that prevent people from paying off these consumer loans. The idea is very right and we need to support this bill, but only on the basis of it, because we need to work on it very carefully. What do I mean? The rights to restructuring should be extended to borrowers whose family is involved in war against the aggression of the Russian Federation, not just people with disabilities as a result of the war. In addition, the rights to restructure consumer loans should be extended to people who have legally left abroad or whose family has legally left abroad. This cannot only apply to internally displaced persons, it is necessary to speak with regard to those people and to give the same rights and opportunities for restructuring as internally displaced persons. The minimum amount of outstanding debt and the minimum period of time should be set in proportion to the total amount of the debt. The key is to determine the fair rate for the spread of the loan depending on the NCB’s account rate at the monthly maturity date rather than on the date of adoption of the law. And lastly, establish penalties for creditors or collectors who will not comply with this law. On the second reading, we will make such adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u161	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Please, Comedian Natalia Igorovna, MP's "Delivery of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u162	Please pass the word to Murmitch Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u163	Anatoly Petrovich Burmich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u164	The "Delivery of Ukraine" group, Anatoly Burmich. Dear colleagues, of course, this bill is very important today when we go to war and when we have people suffering not only those who are displaced, but many others who have been appointed by the previous MP. Of course, our group will support this bill. But what I would also like to say is that we need to look at other things that, let's say, will also help in the employment of internally displaced persons, both in the teaching of children, and in the living, because today people really can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't live, they can't live, they can't live, they can't live. The "Delivery of Ukraine" group supports this bill and will initiate another one that I've listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u165	Thank you. Please, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Ruslan. Please give Nina Yuzanini the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u167	It's a Southern.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, and you don't think that in considering such draft laws, well, there should be at least a minister of finance in the hall. First, well, of course, we need to uphold such laws, we need to work on them. But first of all, there's got to be a year ago where there's an initial analysis, a systematic analysis of all of these things that apply to our citizens. And this was to be done before the start of negotiations with the IMF, before these visits and the signing of the IMF memorandum. Now, any such action on our part is viewed as a weakening in the revenue section, which is set out in the memorandum as the prerogative of the actions of our authority. All actions of our authority should focus on increasing the income section. I'm very sorry that we haven't considered the entire list of draft laws, all the questions that we should raise about our citizens who have suffered from Russian aggression in various fields. It's not just consumer loans. This is absolutely, so far, the projects on lost property and compensation that should be in their hands today have not been considered. Even now, they themselves are repairing damaged property themselves and will not receive compensation for it, nor will they receive compensation because there is no such standard. So, of course, we will support it in the first reading. But once again, I appeal to all the authorities: please cooperate with Minfin, let them do a review of all the necessary standards, let them agree. And then we'll vote together. By the end of May 1, by the end of the deadline for the submission of declarations. If this law is not adopted, such a forgiving percentage will be taxed 19.5 percent of the tax on income and on the military. So, here we go.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. So I ask you to prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the drafting of the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending Chapter IV of the Act on Consumer Crediting and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the characteristics of consumer credit accounting during a state of war (registration number 9051). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:58:44]] For 297 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, don't split up because we immediately agreed to vote for the next bill without discussion. That's why I'm making a proposal right now. First: include Bill 9052 in the agenda of the day session. This is a draft Act amending paragraph 165. Article 165 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of the accrual of interest on consumer loans during the war. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:25]] For 287 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending paragraph 165 of Article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Article 165 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of consumer credit accounting during wartime (Registration No. 9052). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:00:04]] For 298 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we still have two cobbled bills. We agreed that one would be discussed, the other would not be discussed, but we should be included in the agenda. So I'm proposing Bills 9158 and 9154, and they, on the Conciliation Council, decided that they were paired. And that's why I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the daily session Bills 9158, which is an alternative to it 9158-1, as well as Bill 9154, in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:00:48]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm also making a proposal, let's start, let's go, they're two, there's a proposal to determine them as urgent. That's why I'm going to put both of them. I propose to define drafts as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of the consideration of issues. This applies to Bill 9158, which is an alternative to Bill 9158-1 and Bill 9154. So we define bills as urgent, we shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the issue begins. Please vote for such an offer. [[13:01:37]] For 307 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm going to make a proposal, so let's move on to 9158 and an alternative to it. I propose to consider these two bills: 9158, 9158-1 under reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:02:07]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two in favor, two in favour. Please sign up: two in, two in. Okay. No, then we'll listen to the authors. First, I invite Marian Volodymyrna as the author of the basic bill. Mariana Volodymyrna, please. This bill, I understand, is also supported by the committee. Please, Mrs. Mariana. Are you from the committee right now? Then four minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u170	The National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, reviewed the draft law at its meeting. The purpose of the bill is to improve the training of military personnel on trauma (stress, injury, disability) both through appropriate investigation of the service and special personnel, as well as improvements in the design and deployment of medical and other documents between military and health facilities. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following the drafting of the Law under Registration No. 9158, made comments and suggestions to him, and the Ministry of Defence supported the draft law under the registration number without notice. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: first, to include the bills mentioned, namely 9158 and 9158-1 in the agenda of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 101 of the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, to recognize the draft Law of Registration No. 9158 as urgent and to shorten the deadlines for the submission of alternative bills by half; thirdly, by the first reading, to adopt the draft Law of Registration No. 9158 as a basis and as a whole, taking into account such proposals by the Committee. Next. Paragraph 2 of Section I, in the second sentence, replace the words "help on injuries (calculation, injury, injury)" with the words "help on injuries (injury, injury, disability)". Paragraph 9 of Section 2 and of the bill reads: "If the injury (injury, injury, disability) of the military officer is caused by the actions of the enemy, the investigation is not carried out. Injury (stricken, injured, disabled) reports for five days on the basis of a direct commander’s report and a military commander’s orders to receive a trauma (stricken, injured, disabled). In the same line of information on the situation of injury (injury, injury, disability) in the order established by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine is sent to the military health care facility or to the territorial assembly and social support centre.” Four. According to the first reading of the draft Law of Registration No. 9158-1, reject it. Involve the committee in preparing the text of the adopted law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to undertake, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its technical and legal work. Colleagues, let me tell you what this bill is about. The bill is a product of the work of an inter-ministerial large group, both of the executives and of the public organizations, and of course of the committee. That's all, two bills, on our committee and on the committee that's looking after medical policies, they're aimed at simplifying bureaucratic procedures for the LLC. We all know how many military-medical commissions this is a complex, long-term matter. They concern both our wounded and our passing, of course, when questions arise about the refusal of a military officer to take part in the fight. So there are such complex questions. And in order for the Ministry of Digital Transformation, in particular, to be able with the Ministry of Health to introduce an electronic documentary on VLC, to link them to civilian health facilities, the working group worked on this bill, which was registered as one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u171	Thank you, Marianne Volodymyrically. Please welcome the author of the alternative bill, Irina Volodymyrovna Heratschenko, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I think we are discussing the most important issue of today's plenary today, because the number of wounded, our military heroes, is catastrophic, and we long ago need to systematically address the bureaucratic procedures that exist in the military and medical commissions. Before you knew it, we visited all the military hospitals with our colleagues. Military doctors are not enough, and the V.V.C.C. has a doctor's appointment. And we understand why? There's an element of corruption and an element of abuse, and at that time our military stands in line. What is the difference between the bill presented by the previous report and ours? We did it not with the people in the offices, but with the practitioners who talk about the next, that we need to shorten the terms of the investigation, and that's in our bill. It is necessary to record clearly when the investigation is being conducted and when circumstances do not allow the investigation to be conducted, and the injured person should be given clear information. And we find that when we have an investigation, when we don't. Third. Inquiries and referrals are fixed so that our wounded for weeks and months do not wait for documents and lose valuable time for treatment and rehabilitation. Four. The transmission of documents is really electronic, because today these queues are demeaning and sometimes created in a special way. Fifth. We're very clear on the problem of doing this, so there's no more than five days after the investigation is completed. And it's making it much easier to take a vacation for treatment, and it's making it work. Our bill has been passed. Thank you very much to those groups and factions that on the Conciliation Board have marked its professional level. And of course, we call for support for a bill that is not written by officials in offices.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u173	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Please sign two in, two in, and no. Please, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, European Solidarity. Irina Volodymyrna? Jonah’s Mary. Please, Maria Ionova, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, your Honor, I think we're all getting hurt, and we understand that this problem is, indeed, very systemic. And as all the authors have pointed out, the problem with excessive bureaucracy is, it's really important to clean it up. We need to respect our defenders and our protectors, who are in line and, in fact, stand even at times with doctors who do not have to go through them. It is important, therefore, to resolve the issues of the injured, not of state institutions. And it's very sad when Mrs. Mariana said that the government is working, but we don't see any government representatives here, no ministries that are actually supposed to be in this coordinate system. And we have to see them here, and we have to discuss it with them. Now these bills are the basis that we need to continue, improve and control through parliamentary control in relation to sub-legislative acts. Because just the quality of the sub-legislative acts that will be written for each implementing body of the mechanism, we have to facilitate interaction and coordination, and we have to coordinate and prescribe and simplify it. Part of the problem is also resolved by Bill 9180, which relates to the release into the supply of military personnel. But, unfortunately, this bill is not put into the order of the day. So our proposal is still to vote on the basis of 9158-1, because there's what Mrs. Heratchenko said, and the relationship of investigation, and terminology, and the second reading to process quickly, to take the positive things out of 9158. Thank you. The question of time is, let's decide together. And it is desirable for the government to be present at the meetings as well, working together to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Maria. Voice, Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u176	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u177	Samantha Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u178	Samantha Borovska, the Voice faction. You know, it's a shame, disgraceful and embarrassing, that the road bill and the V.V.C.A. were going through huge queues in hospitals, indignant fasts, just indignant, turning veterans and active military personnel into problems that occurred before the people of the V.V.C. went through, and finally it wasn't really the M.O. and not the M.O., but it was the M.O. who actually made the working group to respond and, even though it would make these things easier and more accessible in electronic terms. Regrettably, the electronic queue will work, perhaps somewhere in the middle of this year. But really, this bill is actually just the foundation and base that we've been able to work on in a month from the submission of the committee itself. And I'm also sorry that there's no Ministry of Defense here in the first place, which is responsible for this direction, nor for commanding the medical forces, actually, to which there are also many questions. And I think I'm more convinced than that many deputies to these people would have a lot of questions. In addition, what are the issues of corruption when V.V.C. is going through? I think it's safe not to tell these many thousands of stories when they take people who aren't fit to serve, and they're writing in the assault squads or in the Special Operations Force, doing only a small percentage of the people that need to be mobilized. So we will also vote and support for the first reading, on the basis that the bill should be finalized. But the requests of three ministries involved to work together and to respond dynamically to the events that are taking place in Ukraine in all hospitals with all the VLCs that are still standing, where the boys are in line from the 5th and 6th mornings, and they don't respond to it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u179	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u180	Thank you. We all witnessed a fruitful discussion. I think all aspects of this issue have been discussed here, and we need to come to a decision as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u181	Please, Mikhailuk Galina Olegovna, "Serve of the People." Galina Olegovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u182	Please give the floor to the national deputy Yegor Chernev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u183	Cherniev Yegor, please. Dear colleagues, we're voting after Chernev. Please, Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, friends, there's nothing to discuss. There must be no discussion here at all. This is the minimum that we can do for our military, for our wounded, who really stand in line. You'd see. Not far from here, go to the hospital, which is in Pechersk. Look at the queues, the amputees standing in line. This is a disgrace, not today, but yesterday. decide. And there should be no alternative or any other point of view, there should be a single point of view, the only position of the hall -- to clear all bureaucratic procedures as quickly as possible. There are two problems. The first problem is this low level when the commanders can't do the investigation that they have to do about what happened. How you're going to do this investigation, if you're in combat, it's nonsense. We're cleaning it up in this bill. And the second is the digitisation of all processes that can be digitized so that they don't stand in line with those doctors that are not needed for our military, wounded and wounded military personnel. Moreover, among those who stand there and stand for weeks, because they are told that we cannot today, but come in a week. They're fighting back to the army. We just can't send them there. Let's solve this issue quickly and now. Please support the bill as the main committee supports it. I hope it will be supported by the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u185	Please, Olena Kostvena, and then we vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u186	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, of course, the bills on the military and medical commissions and the procedure for obtaining the help that we are considering today are very relevant, there is no one here to convince. And of course, I would like to thank the creation of both the working group and the authors of the alternative bill first. Because, really, they're prescribed clearly and positively enough, and it's the V.V.C. system that's long overdue that needs to be reviewed. And frankly, the bureaucracy and corruption of military medicine, which our defenders and protectors are now facing, is totally immoral and embarrassing to the state. I would also like to support those colleagues who say that today in our room there should be representatives of the government, the Ministry of Defence, because it is they who should take care of this issue and are most concerned about this issue. At the same time, I would also like to point out that, despite the fact that we are going to adopt two bills today that apply to military-medical commissions on a basis, they need to be detailed and refined, especially in the part that may be responsible for corruption within the VLC, and this is a very, very relevant issue, because it needs to be addressed fairly. The other one. This, of course, has to be a high plank of full V.V.C. digitization. And we're very glad that the Prime Minister-Professor-in-Professor talked about it, and it's already begun. And we hope that by the end of the year, there will still be absolute assistance from the Ministry of Defence. And there should also be a clear interaction between the VLC and the medical and socio-expert committees, setting adequate deadlines for the case. And that's very, very important. So thank you, we have to understand that we cannot politicize this process, these bills, we have to support them and work together as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u187	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Constitution of the Ukrainian Armed Forces on the improvement of documents and the treatment of military personnel in the course of the war (registration No. 9158). Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[13:19:30.]] For 311 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. We immediately agreed without discussing 9154. Therefore, I immediately propose to adopt the draft Law amending article 70 of the Constitution on health (for the work of military and medical commissions) (registration No. 9154). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:20:09]] For 311 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next one is Project 9106. This is a draft Decision on the interim report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible violations of Ukrainian legislation in the area of receiving, distributing, transporting, storing, using for purposes of humanitarian and other assistance, as well as the inefficient use of State property that may be used to temporarily deploy internally displaced persons and to provide other needs of the State. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:20:57]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite the head of the interim commission of inquiry, Kozer Sergio Vijacheslavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u188	Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished colleagues, has held 20 meetings in the first half of the year, which was formed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order 2603 of 20.09.2022. Of these, 10 meetings were held on vacations, and most of the materials that were held were processed, of which more than 17 gigabytes were electronic. In particular, the commission found that there were corruption risks in the area of humanitarian aid caused primarily by the imperfect regulatory regulation of the area in question, which was called upon to address the immediate challenges in the first stages of a full-scale war. At the same time, at present, it needs to be improved and brought into line with existing legislation, i.e. the legal and regulatory acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine adopted in 2022, which regulate the procedure for importing, storing and distributing humanitarian aid, run counter to the provisions of the Law on Humanitarian Aid, and in some cases in fact cancel it. This leads to a lack of proper control and creates a large number of corruption risks at each individual stage of humanitarian aid delivery. The emergency situation that needs urgent settlement is the "Stack" system. Also, Ukraine's Humanitarian Aid Act does not meet today's requirements. In fact, there is currently no accounting for the distribution of humanitarian aid among the direct recipients of such assistance. The materials examined by the commission show that there is no reporting on the use of property that is subject to the procedure of forced alienation, removal. Other tasks of the commission are related to the fact that the Russian Federation’s military aggression against Ukraine has increased significantly the number of citizens in need of a solution to housing issues — more than 3 million — and in general, 5 million U.S.A. today. In connection with the lack of time, you can get to know our report that has been sent to you. But I give my fellow workers a word to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u189	Six months of work did not go in vain. Dozens of criminal conduct have been initiated: Dnipropetrovska, Poltavska region, Zaporizka, and most importantly, the Attorney General's report will take into account the conducts that have been initiated.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u190	Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign in: two in, two in. Sign up: two in, two in, two in, no in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two out, two out, two out, Anyone who can sign up, two minutes who can't make it, one minute. Please write down: two for, two for the discussion. Please, National Deputy Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u191	Please pass the word to Tuckenko Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u192	Please, Maxim Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u193	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you very much, and I would like to support the report of our Temporary Investigation Commission, which, indeed, I am 100 percent sure of, and I want to assure all of you by one hundred percent that these six months have not been involved, honestly and transparently worked, and we will still be working for another six months, as it is by law and by the Rules we have this possibility. So we keep working, we keep going around the country. For those officials who think that the humanitarian issue is in the past, it is certainly not in the past. The number of internally displaced persons for whom this humanitarian aid is needed today is only increasing. The evacuation of people from Kramatorsk, Slaviansk, continues, unfortunately, to leave the city of Herson, also under the bombing of the Russian Federation every day. So help for our people is needed, and it will take many, many months, and perhaps even years. Even our victory, which we all look forward to in the near future, will not end the problem, sadly, of internally displaced persons. These people need humanitarian help, these people need work, work, these people need housing. Housing is also one of our temporary investigation boards, and we have agreed among ourselves that the second part of the year of our work will be devoted to the issue of housing, housing for families of military personnel and families of internally displaced persons, whose 5 million people are now only officially registered. So trade union property, hold on, we'll go to you and we'll be there every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u194	Thank you. Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u195	Please pass the word to the Fedin of Sofia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u196	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u197	I thank the commission for the work. But I would very much like this not only to be limited to the facts, but to finally be held accountable. Unfortunately, the practice shows that once the perpetrators of the theft belong to military administrations or are close to the authorities, all of this is silently silenced, there is no information in the marathons, and as a result we have hundreds of thousands, hundreds of millions of dollars of looting and we have thousands of tons of products that have just rotted in the warehouses of military administrations. I'll remind you, it's the Chernigs. In an area of 1,000 square feet [1,000 m], food was rotten, while people were starving. Front door: 389 wagons, 220 trucks, 22 containers, 322 million dollars about to be stolen. And it's quiet because it's all covered by the head of the administration. Kiev: Hundreds of tons of rotten products, destroyed ammunition that was needed on the front but eaten by mice because someone wanted to destroy it and then maybe resell it. I'm already silent about how individual representatives of the authorities hand out the ball of agitation with their own symbolism, and inside they are the promenades passed on as humanitarian aid. At the same time, however, the persecution of volunteers continues. Do you think even though one case was closed? No, none. At the current stage, we have over 130 cars that have been removed from the volunteers for a few months, and these cars have been in warehouses, and individual structures are trying to trade, and they say, "Give these cars to our police, especially to the structures, and then we might give you the rest." It is a frost and cynicism! And now, unfortunately, there is no trust in the state. I want the commission to take at least the first steps towards establishing justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u198	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna, The Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, you know, we've been sitting here, listening to reports from TSC members. To be honest, it was hard to figure out who was stealing a humanitarian. So we listened to two minutes of the report, and we all went to read the papers, because we didn't know where it was, especially, the humanitarianist in the Zaporozhye area, who of the officials in Zaporzky's WA had something to do with it, whether someone was responsible for it, whether there were suspicions and so on and so forth. Can we hear the answer? That's exactly what the TSC was designed to do. Moreover, a few days ago came up with a completely different fact, a new one. I understand that the TSC has not investigated this, and I would like to draw attention to this, particularly the search of the NAB at Kharkiv District Military Administration. What exactly is happening, fellow believers? One story, when there's a contrabas and a "twice" that's not understood, the other is when people are involved, the district administrators who are on the president's direct vertical. Well, everyone who worked in this vertical knows how it works. What exactly is going on? What, then, is the purpose of the TSC during the war when we did not hear the basics and surnames behind these thefts? 400 cars in Zaporozhye, what is that? Why do we drive something away when it all turns out in apartments like goldfish and bars? It's a shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u200	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group. Dear colleagues, and after that, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u201	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Undoubtedly, the work of the commission must be recognized as quite productive, and the interim report that our colleagues made suggests that there are still a number of issues that need to be addressed in order to eliminate the abuses that take place in the area of humanitarian aid. The report has given considerable attention to the imperfections of legislation that the existing criminal code, the Criminal Procedural Code, does not always allow for the effective completion of investigations and the punishment of those responsible. But something tells me that today's legal and regulatory framework is absolutely enough to conduct an effective investigation in this direction, and accordingly, to punish those who abuse receiving and distributing humanitarian aid. I remember how in the first phase our Committee on the Protection of Law worked in border areas to address the issue of the import of humanitarian aid, its effective, proper storage, and delivery to those in need. All these questions have been answered and settled, so today tell me, if in a number of areas and cities there have been extremely large abuses, let's just take Kharkiv, today the D.B.I. has worked with the N.A.U.U., with other law enforcement officers, hundreds of thousands of abuses in humanitarian aid, we need to be brought to a logical conclusion and the blame must be punished.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u202	Thank you, Your Honor. We have concluded our discussion of the matter. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose the adoption of the draft interim report of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible violations of Ukrainian legislation in the area of obtaining, distributing, transporting, storing, using for the purpose of humanitarian and other assistance, as well as the ineffective use of State property that may be used to temporarily deploy internally displaced persons and to provide other needs of the State (registration No. 9106). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:33:06]] For 289 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next bill, 9181, is a draft decree for the implementation by the heads of the Berestian Rural and Andrivian Rural Military Administrations of the Berdjan region of Zaporozhye, of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:33:42]] For 283 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we vote now? "European Solidarity" against. I get it right, don't I? Okay. Then I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Let's put it this way: I'll give you two minutes of "European Solidarity" and then we vote. I would like to vote first in favour of the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. [[13:34:21]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please, who's from "European Solidarity"? Then we vote. Please don't split up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, in the Zaporozhye region today, a difficult security situation has proved to be such that local councils have simply turned out to be traitors, including banned political parties: shariahs, SALW. And we need not just, you know, diagrams to solve this issue, but to solve it in a broad way. If no parties are allowed, MPs at all levels should leave the authorities, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we still have a representative of the OPCW to chair the Committee on Freedom of Speech. So neither the committee nor the freedom of speech. But it's very important that when we talk to you about the military-civil administrations that are being created to talk about that if we're talking about regions that are in the front zone, that's one question. When the Supreme Council of Ukraine today also registers military administrations in Chernigo, where the government is elected, where the mayor, where the local authorities work, it already speaks of the onslaught of local self - government. You know, when there's a lot of power, it wants more and more. And that's why we warn colleagues in this room any attempt to destroy local self-government, decentralization to do. And the key question is, if we are in Zaporozhye, in the Hersonian region, where we are today mass-created by military administrations, how many traitors, who will be punished for this? Our faction demands and we hope that you will all support this issue, call to the Attorney General's room, the head of the Security Service of Ukraine and tell, and so where Bakanov is, as usual, that in the country's highest offices there were moles and traitors, Russian agents who were assigned to the highest positions, who were in direct contact with the Kremlin every day and with the FSB, who gave up everything they could in Herson, Zaporozhye, Donetsk, Lugansk and Kiev. Where are these people today? That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I propose the adoption, as a whole, of the necessary technical and legal amendments, of a draft decree for the implementation of the second article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (registration No. 9181). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:37:28]] For 298 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill 6516. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Immigration Act. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:37:57]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-again. Without a report. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u205	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u206	Please, Sophia Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u207	There are a lot of questions before this bill, starting with how it will be hand-in-hand to Kabmin to decide who to give permission to and who not to grant immigration permits. But I would like to touch on a slightly different aspect of this whole issue, because in the context of this bill, I have the impression that the state is looking for an opportunity to fill Ukraine with citizens of some other countries, while, if I am not mistaken, a minister of reintegration that Ukrainians who have become refugees abroad do not have to go home. I've recently returned from a foreign trip where we've been visiting humanitarian hubs, where our Ukrainians are now stationed, and I've been watching with colleagues from different factions, and I'll stress how much money is now being invested from international funds to create gardens, schools, various possibilities, jobs for Ukrainians. But to be honest, I understand that all of these things could be done in Ukraine as a minimum in areas where there is such a safe place to live, that all of these costs, all of these possibilities, would create preconditions for the development of the Ukrainian state. So that the subject "I am a Ukrainian" should be presented not only in Poland, but at a time when we have bills in Ukraine that have to throw away Ukrainian language, for example, from the field of service. That all the resources involved should be used to create jobs for Ukrainians here in Ukraine. So we don't create jobs, we destroy private business, we don't rebuild the economy in particular, and we expect people to come back, of course, if people don't have a place to go, someone wants to fill it with other people. But I believe that Ukraine should take care of Ukrainians first and foremost in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u208	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy to Danuci Alexander Anatolyevich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, we must certainly do everything as the Ukrainian State to bring back those who were forced to leave our country because of the war with Russia that began in 14 and unfortunately continued a full-scale invasion in 2022. But today we need to talk about that last year we got the birth rate of 1.1, and this year it's projected that the corresponding scientific structures are going to be 0.8. In line with those ideas, the nation develops when it develops this coefficient 2. Likewise today, we must think about normal immigration, including adequate conditions for adequate people from adequate countries to come to Ukraine and become a second country for them. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u210	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, the Fatherland faction. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u211	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, the bill is really important, it changes the existing Immigration Act. It was written by means of the work of the Migration Service. And the task is to improve the migration system in Ukraine. It complements the position regarding the powers of the migration service, which is and is the authority of the central authority in this direction. In fact, there are a lot of positive norms when, at the end of each year, quotas for immigration are given from different countries. But there is alarming information, according to the Ukrainian Security Service in 2018-2020, there is a trend in immigration processes from Iran, Iraq, Pakistan and Afghanistan through the creation of fictitious marriages. As a result, the bill adds additional powers to the authorities to verify that marriage is fictitious or not. And there are very risky rules that limit legal regulation. This is the greatest warning. And the second reading needs to be improved, because such excessive additional powers are not only a corrupt component of the service, but there are risks, considering that this bill is important for European integration so that it does not go beyond the law. We'll vote yes and we'll be preparing serious professional remedies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u212	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. And this is the final speech, the honourable colleagues, and then we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u213	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'll try briefly for our television audiences to understand what the bill is about. In fact, this bill complicates the possibility of so - called fictitious marriages in order to obtain an immigration permit. And on the other hand, there's another positive money -- twice the deadline for processing applications for immigration from 1 year to 6 months. So I think this law needs to be supported, our group supports it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u214	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. We're moving on to a decision. Dear colleagues, I'll just remind you that we agreed to work today until 2:00. We're done, so we're done. It's a deal. So get ready. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Immigration Act of Ukraine (registration number 6516). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:45:38]] For 285 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill we agreed to vote without discussion, so I immediately announce. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the drafting of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules, the draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the establishment of features of customs administrations and the certification of customs officials (registration number 6490-d). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:46:24]] For 260 Decision taken. The next bill is a draft law, and we have also agreed without discussion, without amendment, more faithfully, on a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on specific features of the enforcement organization of decisions and decisions of other bodies in the course of the war. I propose to adopt a draft law on the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why are you yelling, my friends? I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on specific features of the enforcement of decisions and decisions of other bodies in the course of the war (registration number of Bill 8064). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:47:25]] For 292 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Ladies and gentlemen, let's finish our consideration of the issues and move on to the vote. Enquiries? All right, let's do it in order then, we still have 8292 in order of the day. This is a draft of the Act amending certain legislation in Ukraine regarding the functioning of institutions for the execution of sentences and pre-trial detention in conditions of martial law. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:48:54]] For 290 I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:49:16]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two in favour, two in favor, and we vote. Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u215	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u216	Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u217	Thank you. Colleagues, our faction will support this bill, we'll work on it for the second reading. And we're also proposing that we raise the Rosato decision higher, and it's very relevant right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u218	Thank you. Please, Fris.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, this bill has been the subject of consideration by our Committee on Legal Policy. At first we thought we had the opportunity to accept it as a basis and as a whole. During the discussion, however, many of our colleagues raised the question that much more global norms were affecting the bill. So it was decided by the committee to take it as a basis, to work on the second reading, taking into account the positions of the different factions and their views on the project. These are global issues of punishment. And I'm asking you to support my colleague with the bill and give him the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u220	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, the "Fatherland" faction. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u221	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the presidency, the people's deputies, we really need a bill. Because we know how many colonies are in those areas that are temporarily occupied today. But there's a lot of buts. We know the decisions of European courts regarding detention in investigative detention facilities that are now overcrowded and functioning. And the bill provides for the possibility of holding persons deprived of their liberty forever, that is, definitely for today. We need to create conditions first. And when we see in the explanatory note that the bill does not need any additional budget funds, if you'll excuse me, where will the contingent that will be transferred be kept? And, excuse me, let's not forget that in the detention facility, it's not criminals, it's people, it's people, it's people who are being set up, it's people who are suspected of committing crimes. And it's strictly forbidden to keep them with those who are serving a degree of punishment, more than that, if they're foreclosures, they're foreclosed in separate cells. Therefore, it is clearly needed to work out the bill. But in this way, the "Paternity" faction can't support us, we'll hold on. If my second reading is improved that I have great doubts, then something can be said. In that way, unfortunately, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, this law really regulates the issue of punishments and juveniles, and those who are imprisoned forever, and those who are under investigation and arrested today. But we need to understand that, in connection with war and military conditions, certain circumstances have changed and we need to get out of reality, and we need to get out of reality, and we can make changes to the second reading only when we vote in the first reading. So I ask you to identify yourself and accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u224	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. I therefore propose to adopt a bill amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the functioning of penal and pre-arrangement institutions (registration No. 8292) in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:54:14]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one more second, one more second. There are a number of laws without discussion. Can we set them up to work? Look, I'm talking numbers, you're all accentuating. I just got word from Danilo Alexanderovich, 7632, no one's making any adjustments. Yeah? Okay. Next, 8378 – no discussion. 5762 – no discussion. 9030 – no discussion. 8092 – no discussion. And 8028 and 8259 without discussion. But there I'll put the committee's decision to reject first if it takes. No, then we'll keep moving. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why? What does Voice want? No, we're not taking him. Is that accepted? Dear colleagues, and one motion for a vote, and all. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the exemption from real estate tax, other than land, for destroyed or damaged immovable property (registration number 7632). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:55:57]] For 281 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I propose to include Bill 8378 in the agenda of the day session. This is a draft of the Act amending article 51 of the Law on complete general secondary education to improve the skills of teachers in providing psychological support to participants in the educational process. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:56:35]] For 296 Decision taken. I propose to adopt Bill 8378 as the basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:56:56]] For 299 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law amending article 51 of the Law on complete general secondary education on improving the qualifications of teachers in the provision of psychological support to participants in the educational process (registration No. 8378). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:57:31]] For 299 Decision taken. I'm making an offer. Next bill 5762. I propose to adopt a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws to simplify the production of distillates by small business entities in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. People's deputies, please vote. This is Bill 5762. Please vote. [[13:58:07]] For 290 Decision taken. Next bill 9030. I'm proposing to include Bill 9030 in the agenda of the day. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:58:30.]] For 290 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as part of the first article of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the development of wine production and the simplification of the economic activity of small wine production (registration No. 9030). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:59:04]] For 291 Decision taken. And, dear colleagues, 8092. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the registered residence of minors for a period of temporary occupation by the Russian Federation of Ukraine (Registration No. 8092), to be adopted in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:59:41]] For 301 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have two more bills. One minute, Heratschenko, and then we're voting on the two bills that the committee has proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" supports Mr. Cosemyakin's drafts, because all that goes for the needs of our Armed Forces, the Force of Terror, is extremely important. But we would like to point out that our faction has passed two bills to amend the Law on the Anti-Nazis -- 9007 and 9130, which unfortunately are not in the order of the day. And this is about the principles of things. One is the creation of training centres for the TRO, which are now at the front line of the U.S.S. And we need to be good at preparing our Force of Terror. And the second. This is a tribute to the memory of those heroes who did not escape in the first minutes of the war but who joined the lions of the terror but died in carrying out their war tasks without even being able to take this military ticket into their hands. And this is also true of the Hersonians, who were shot by the invaders in the Bougains, about other elements of the terror. They do not even have the right to honor the military today. Let's honor them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, next bill 8028. This is a draft of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals of National Opposition on improving the principles of organization and the movement of resistance. We agreed that we would not discuss the matter. So I immediately propose to the committee to reject this bill, registration number 8028. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:01:35]] For 171 The decision is not taken. Then I propose to accept this bill as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. 8028. [[14:01:56]] For 135 The decision is not taken. I'm going to suggest that we turn this issue back, this bill 8028, for re-reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:02:20]] For 168 The decision is not taken. I propose to return the subject of the legislative initiative to draft Bill 8028. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:02:46]] For-174 Nothing came up, the bill was considered rejected. Next Bill 8259. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of National Opposition and some other Ukrainian laws on improving the principles of voluntary formation of territorial communities. We also agreed without discussion, but I'm the first to take the initiative of the committee to reject the 8259 bill. Please vote. [[14:03:24]] For 168 The decision is not taken. I'm proposing to adopt this bill as a basis. Please vote. 8259. [[14:03:44]] For 148 The decision is not taken. I'm asking you to go back to rereading Bill 8259. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:04:05]] For 185 The decision is not taken. I propose to return the subject of the legislative initiative to the draft law, 8259. Please vote. [[14:04:32]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Helen Kostvena, one vote to the President and then ask questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to advance the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine to assign the name Hero of Ukraine to Vitalia Merinov (after death). Please vote. [[2:05:06]] For 288 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[14:05:29]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, 11 parliamentary inquiries were made for the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To the President of Ukraine – 1, to the authorities of the Supreme Council – 0, to the Cabinet of Ministers – 7, to the heads of other public authorities and local authorities – 3, to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination, forms of property - none. So it's the questions of the national MPs. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionov to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine on the legal basis of the residence in Ukraine of a citizen of the Russian Federation or a citizen of the United States of America, director Alexander Alexander Moločnikov. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionov to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine regarding the stay in Ukraine of a Russian citizen and (or) a citizen of the United States, director Alexander Alexander Molochnikov, and his license to conduct professional activities related to film production in Ukraine. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionov to Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine on the legal basis of the residence in Ukraine of Russian citizens and (or) citizens of the State of Israel, journalist Eugenia Markowna Albatz. Anton Yatzenka to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine for the provision of copies of documents relating to the administration of a land plot of state ownership of a total area of 2,312 hectares of agricultural land, which is currently in use of the Collective Agricultural Enterprise "Principal". Anton Yatzenk to the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the provision of information and copies of documents relating to the management of the budget allocated under the civil-military cooperation programmes of the Uman City Council of the Cherkas district to military units located in the territory of the city of Uman, the Cherkas region and the city of Pervomaysk of Mikolai district. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for Term Services and Financial Security of the Callers 2020-2021. Mikhail Cimbaluk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the wages of the management of the private shareholder company Ukrnafta and the private shareholder company Ukritnafta. These are all requests from the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-11-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, we have two more announcements. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation of the 9th United for Recovery (United for Recovery) Interfractional Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of this unification of the elected national deputy of Ukraine, Zupánin Andriy Viktorovich. Welcome to colleague United for Recovery. There has also been an interfractional parliamentary association, which I report in accordance with article 60 prim. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Water Platform. The heads of this association elected Ukrainian national deputies, Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich and Danusz Alexander Anatoliyovich. What do you say, "Ukrainian Water Platform." Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. We welcome the coming festivals and the coming ones, and we wish all of us strength and endurance. Together to complete victory. You will be informed of the time and place of the next extension of our meeting. And now we announce a recess in our plenary session. Together to victory. Glory to Ukraine!
