ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, and we're about to begin. Dear colleagues, the glory of Ukraine! Dear people's deputies, look, I'm asking you right now, let's sit down, because when we have guests, a delegation, a speaker, I would very much ask you not to run around the hall, not to show your back to our colleagues, because, once again, it's a very important question of ethics and internal morality. Please take your seats so I can see your faces. Dear colleagues, according to the ruling we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I'm paying attention. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I point out that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that, according to the tradition of our Parliament, we begin the work of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, the second year of decisive opposition by Ukraine to the Russian Federation's large-scale military incursion takes place. Thank you to our courageous advocates and protectors, who heroically and self - centeredly reflect enemy attacks on the Bahmutsk, Audius, Marínsk, and other hot spots on the frontline, forcing racist invaders to suffer significant losses. Everlasting honor and glory to all who defend our Fatherland at such an extreme time. Please pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of all those who gave their lives for Ukraine, as well as to all the peaceful citizens who died at the hands of the Russian terrorist state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, today in the meeting room, I invite a delegation, a parliamentary delegation of the Portuguese Republic, headed by the Head of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Augusto Ernesto Santos Silva. Let us applaud our Portuguese friends. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, Mr. President of the Assembly, before you are invited to your floor, allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to express my sincere gratitude to the Portuguese people, the Assembly of the Republic and to you personally for your support and solidarity with the Ukrainian people at a critical time for us. Portugal strongly condemned armed aggression against Ukraine and war crimes committed by the Russian Federation in our territory. The military assistance provided by your state not only draws us closer to victory over the invader, but it helps to preserve the most precious thing we have — the lives of our soldiers and civilians. We are counting on the continuation of such important military support. The friendly Portugal is actively joining our initiatives to bring the aggressor state to justice for the crimes committed. We welcome the accession of the Portuguese Republic to the working group and the establishment of a special international tribunal on the crimes of aggression by the Russian Federation against Ukraine. We also hope that the Portuguese Parliament will recognize Russia as a terrorist state. Portugal is actively involved in the parliamentary dimension of the International Crimea Platform and supports Ukraine's accession to the EU and NATO. We highly appreciate your State's provision to temporarily displaced citizens of Ukraine, almost 60,000 of whom were forced to leave their homes as a result of the war. Thank you Portugal for its fruitful work and humanitarian assistance, as well as for its active participation in the reconstruction of damaged educational facilities in Ukraine. Portugal’s support is palpable. We are proud to have such friends. Mr. Golovo, your arrival to Kiev was for a global week of Portuguese language and culture, the central day of which is May 5. Love of our own language, culture, and history brings our nations and countries closer together, for it is a common and fundamental quality. So I want to tell you and your colleagues in Portuguese: [[(In foreign language) (Applause)]] Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic, Mr. Augusto Ernesto Santos Silva, is invited to attend. Hello.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Ruslan Stefanchuk, dear friends, ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine! I thank you for inviting me to visit Ukraine. From ourselves, from our Parliament, from the members of our delegation, we want to say that we have lieutenants here from several political parties of Portuguese -- socialists, social Democrats, liberals. And I want to thank you for the opportunity to meet with Volodymyr Zelenski, our hero, the Ukrainian President, and Prime Minister Denis Smigal of Ukraine. And I have the great honour to address today's plenary session of the Supreme Council. Our delegation has a special purpose: to express the deep solidarity of the Portuguese people with the Ukrainians, confirming that Portugal fully supports the Ukrainian struggle against its enemy, a ruthless enemy, who is encroaching on the Ukrainians ’ inalienable right to have his land, his territory. And we immediately understood how the day of February 24, 2022 began, our government, our parliament, our President of the Republic expressed their unanimous condemnation of aggression by the Russian Federation and confirmed the principles of the UN and the Charter of this body, completely rejecting any intention of changing the borders of European states to force. And we certainly support and uphold Ukraine's right to defend ourselves legally. We welcome Ukrainian displaced persons and also support sanctions against those responsible for the invasion, and we also demand an end to the armed conflict and the withdrawal of all troops from all occupied Ukrainian territories. Since the beginning of the aggression, the Portuguese Parliament has expressed its solidarity with the Ukrainian people and its leadership many times. We recall this session in April 2022 with the presence of President Zelenski. We also had a video conference in May 2022 with Mr. Ruslan, head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And on February 24th, we had a plenary debate about the war against Ukraine and expressed our full support for the Ukrainian people and our condemnation, the condemnation of Russian aggression. And the relevant committees of the Portuguese Parliament, and the group, the Portuguese-Ukrainian group, have taken numerous steps under the Ukrainian Embassy in our capital with the Ukrainian community in Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen, it is a horror, when one party provokes the other side, the other side is under attack, not just the right, but the duty to defend itself. Thus, the time has come to support Ukraine, the need for military equipment, and other means of defending the country. And when an aggressor, like Russia, deliberately targets civilians, bombing cities, neighborhoods, schools, and hospitals, committing war crimes. The international community must act to bring those responsible to justice, to justice. The war in Ukraine applies to all of Europe. We cannot allow the logic of imperialist expansion to drag Europe back into the chasm of disorder. We believe that international law, peace, our citizens must be defended in order to ensure a world order based on rules and good reason, not power. We want peace in Ukraine, peace that can come only through ensuring the cessation of Russian military aggression and the unconditional withdrawal of all Russian troops from all occupied Ukrainian territories. [[Applause]] Mr. Head, dear friends! As parliamentarians, we should also play a very important role by giving careful attention to the political rhetoric emanating from the Kremlin. Illegal narratives are very dangerous, and they must be denied. The fact that Russia has some historical right to what once belonged to an area dominated by the former Russian Empire is false, false, and unacceptable to us. The idea that the end of the Soviet Union, I quote Putin here, was the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the 20th century, is wrong, we can't accept it. On the contrary, the collapse of the Soviet Union gave freedom from oppression and allowed a peaceful transition to democracy for several nations and millions of people. NATO enlargement, defense alliance. And the very idea that this poses some kind of threat to Moscow is a false and unacceptable thought. The claim that the Ukrainian road to Europe is any imbalance in Eastern Europe is a wrong and unacceptable thing. On the contrary, this represents the Ukrainian European path that reflects the desire, will of the Ukrainian people, the European expectations of this nation: expectations of the rule of law, social unity, peace, joint work, security, spheres or queens of influence. The claim that superstates have the right to influence their neighbors and oppress them for the 21st century is unacceptable and wrong. All the ultranationalistic doctrines of fighting to the end and destroying the enemy are false and unacceptable things. We need rules so that nations can work together on the basis of international law, human rights. And the roadside claim that he has a mission to maintain religious traditions and to fight some moral degradation in the West is a wrong and unacceptable thing for all of us. On the contrary, free states, pluralistic societies, cosmopolitan cultures, liberal democracies are the best protection for individuals, their beliefs, their traditions and beliefs. Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen, Portugal and Ukraine are two sister countries very close to their European and Western destiny. We have a huge increase. Closeness between our peoples, because a large Ukrainian community lives in Portugal, speaking two languages: Ukrainian and Portuguese. Now our ties have become even stronger since Ukraine began its journey to the European Union. Portugal fully supports this process and sees the European Union as a place where reforms are to take place in order to respond to the dynamics of the enlargement of the Union. We are strengthening and growing in the joint work between Ukraine and NATO of the Alliance, where Portugal is one of the founding countries, and this work is getting stronger. Finally, I believe that Portuguese diplomacy can add quality to the international support of our common struggle. The coalition of countries that politically and diplomatically support Ukraine, condemning Russian aggression without any warning, is fortunately a very broad coalition. But we still need to expand this coalition, promote dialogue between the countries of the so-called Global South, namely Africa and Latin America. These countries of Africa and Latin America are also victims of the economic and social consequences of this war, but sometimes they perceive things differently. They sometimes feel that they are far - reaching European affairs. We have a close relationship with Africa and Latin America. Portugal can thus help you to get closer to these countries to fight together for your country’s independence, its territorial integrity. And that's what Portugal does. And this is what Portugal will continue to do. To find out, we have to say that Ukrainian borders today are countries of freedom, security and peace for the world. Portugal supports Ukraine. [[Applause]] A strong friendship between Portugal and Ukraine Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, let us once again thank the Honourable Head of the Assembly of the Republic and the Portuguese delegation for their participation in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the undisputed support of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I'm handing over Alexander Sergiyovich, because we're going to have a two-way meeting with colleagues, so let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, this is our colleague's birthday, Sergio Valeriyovich Bunin. Let's say hello to our colleague. [[Applause]] We wish for many years of life, good health, peaceful heavens, fruitful work, and Ukraine’s rapid victory. Dear colleagues, we propose a signal vote in accordance with the 28th article of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. I suggest we make a signal vote. [[10:31:33]] For 204 Thank you. Almost everyone pressed the green button, but the opposition continues to push the red. Dear colleagues. The factions? Okay, factions, please. The position is reflected even in the signal vote. Dear colleagues, we have a lot of questions to discuss, so please take your seats, invite the deputies into the hall. And now we're going to go through about 15 questions without discussion, and then we're going to go to the discussion. Please invite the deputies to the hall. As long as the MPs meet, I will remind you once again that we must abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council, not spread information about the progress of the plenary session and the decisions made in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of work. So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. We are invited to draft Decree 9265 on amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Ninth Council Committees. The proposal to adopt this draft regulation as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. This vote is already effective. I'd like my colleagues to take their seats and vote. [[10:33:32]] For 252 Decision taken. It's been decided. The next issue of the agenda is Bill 7629. Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility in Collectively Responsible Activities. We agreed to accept it without discussion. Offer. Okay, "Fatherland" for two minutes and then we vote. Please, who's from Homeland? Voline, please. Voilà, two minutes, and we vote. Invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We now have to consider a bill that is being submitted as a Euro-integration bill, which is important, which provides for the employer's responsibility for collective bargaining and the introduction of a category of fine scales. But on the other hand, you can't agree with what the government is proposing: groups that have up to 25 employees will not apply fines, and it is clear that there will be no incentive to conclude collective agreements and agreements. In addition, such a mechanism is in place so that, for example, a company where 75 employees (which is a large number of 75 workers) or even 50 could be divided into 3 companies on condition and not conclude collective agreements again. Everything is about giving priority to the conclusion of individual contracts between the employer and the hired worker. Imagine if a hired worker could resist an employer who could offer a higher, lower salary, offer short - term terms under an individual contract, or change this individual contract daily. So collective protection for those enterprises that are small and large businesses in Ukraine is getting smaller and smaller and small enterprises, this is a European practice, it's getting more and more, people won't be protected there. I therefore propose not to vote in favour of such a bill. Every day in Parliament, laws are passed that violate the rights of people who are employed, the rights of those who are protecting the country today, the hired workers who return to Ukraine will return to peaceful life after the war.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u6	Thank you. Colleagues, please. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on registration number 7629 amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility in the Field of Collective and Confidential Activities. Please vote. [[10:37:07]] For 240 Decision taken. Project accepted as a basis. Show the factions, please. Thank you. The next issue of agenda is the draft Decision 9202 on the exit of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the Agreement on the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States. I suggest we put this in the agenda. [[10:37:51]] For 278 Decision taken. Questions are included in the agenda of the day session. I propose to adopt a draft Decision, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments (registration number 9202) on the withdrawal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the Agreement on the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States. Please vote. [[10:38:24]] For 280 Decision taken. Actor's been approved. Next question of the agenda. The bill (registration No. 9078) amending Chapter XV of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on "Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance" on sources of pension and funeral benefits. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. [[10:39:04]] For 259. Decision taken. Questions are included in the agenda of the day session. I propose to adopt this bill as a basis (registration number 9078): a draft law amending chapter XV of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on the "Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance" on sources of pension and funeral benefits. Please vote. [[10:39:42]] For 272 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Next question of the agenda. We agreed to discuss it. Yeah, okay. 9220: Draft Decision on the interim report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the possible facts of the ineffective activities of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, the State Water Agency of Ukraine, the State Environmental Inspection of Ukraine, their territorial bodies, enterprises, institutions and organizations that have been involved in their administration, which could have led to a reduction in revenues to government and local budgets in six months of activity. Reported to the head of the interim commission of inquiry, Mikolayovich Tishchenko. Please. Please invite Mikolaiovich to the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, well, if the reporter doesn't show up, we'll discuss it, right? Two-in-a-two-in? Oh, Mikola Mikolaiovich, I'm sorry. Please, three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u7	Congratulations, my friends! All right, today. Good day, distinguished national MPs, your high-ranking lord! In October of last year, we created a temporary investigation commission, which has been working for six months with more than 20 specialists in different directions — law enforcement officers, forest workers, environmentalists, lawyers, lawyers, and scientists. As a result of the work of the TSK, it has been established that over the 2021-2022 years, 20 million cubic metres of forest were officially harvested, of which 2 million are oak. Even if you count it at a lower price, it totals 10.2 billion dollars. And that's what we're talking about in terms of official raw material data. The work revealed that so much had been cut down into black, beyond accounting, and the costs of illegal logging had been settled in the pockets of black and corrupt forest workers who had not paid any taxes to the state, but were systematically used to influence political processes in the regions and bribes, to crush their activities, which eventually led to the collapse of Ukraine's economy. At the same time, the State Forest Resources Agency, in its official speech, notes that all forest holdings are bankrupt, a. they are on the verge of bankruptcy. Instead of establishing more stringent controls and bringing this money and making the business profitable, the Forest Resources Agency has gone a easier way. [[inexplicable]] In two weeks, just think, two weeks later, it collapsed, that is, it brought together businesses and brought under the new name DP "The Forests of Ukraine". Even though the leaders promised that there would be no reduction, more than 3,000 foresters were now released. And I want to remind you that more than 6,000 foresters are fighting in the U.S.S.A. today. And today, according to the facts, the National Police and the DBR have discovered more than 30 criminal conducts that are currently being investigated, according to established facts, the amount of damage. In addition, the commission set up tools and methods for black logging crimes. We are also following the order of the President, the Parliament, so I want Parliament to carry out a democratic duty today and to protect the interests of the people of Ukraine. We will only win with you, because Parliament is a force. Glory to Ukraine! Hail ZSU!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u8	Heroim Slava! Thank you, Mikolayovich, for your fineness. Please: two in, two against factions and groups. Please, Laba Mikhailovich. Tischenko. They passed Tishchenka. Please, Mikola Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u9	Yes, I mean, my friends, today we are on a very big path towards uniting the state. Today there is a war, and today all of us must understand that we must support, support, support our people, the Ukrainians, our constituents. So, see, me and the people's deputies both fixed the foxes of the mountains. And when our voters ask us why the Carpathians are being destroyed, we say that only parliament today, only the President, only our state, our U.S.S.S.S. has to defend itself. I want to say that if you count 20 million cubic meters of forest, it's about 10.2 billion, and so much, we've already established this fact, it's in the shadows, it's not in the military budget of Ukraine. We're looking for money, we're looking for money for our military. Parliament has done the right thing with the President: he has supported the arrivals of the military, the 30,000 sums of revenue that we have voted with you. But where can you find money? And I'll tell you, the money is from a non-invention in the field. And how much we've checked for inadequacies in the sector, in the budget of Ukraine, in terms of fossils of water. We made an estimate of water resources, one in five gallons [5 L] of extractive water, and only one tax is paid. Just think about it, only one liter pays the taxes. So if you and I all, friends, work hard, support, continue our struggle for our Ukrainian forests, for our Ukrainian nadra, only then will Parliament do its democratic work to protect the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u10	Thank you, Mikolayovich. Please have a seat. Mikola Mikolaiovich, time's up. Mikola Mikolaiovich, we have to sit down. Next, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko asks, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u11	Respect for the forest may begin with this: When the forest TSK distributed a couple today, you know, dozens of hectares of Carpathian forests like the TSK. And in this regard, it's all about this very serious subject of the forest. It is said that if corruption cannot be overcome, it must be led. It's that case. And we're seeing for the first time, actually, when today the authorities who are actually supposed to control the logging of illegal forests because of their full structures in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, through the Public Prosecutor's Office are creating TSKs in Parliament, spending unknown costs on printing what kind of papers, on hats, jackets, fashionable appearances, you know, instead of actually dealing with the forest. And when the Parliament roars that Koli is not in the hall, half an hour is looking for him, it's also a view of the forest. So the subject of the forest is really important. The centralization of deforestation is now under the control of the forest. We really urge that we take this subject very seriously. And consider this my statement by asking the opposition faction "European Solidarity" to power, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to the heads of the government, to the prosecutor's office with the question: "So who today is the one responsible for this deforestation?" And why does the authorities themselves create their own TSC in Parliament in order to talk about their own things, or "to heal"? It's a shame, what you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u12	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich. And the last name was, did it ring? Right on the line, okay. Mikola Mikolaiovich, please, one minute is a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u13	Can you hear me? Thank you for paying attention today. I believe that it is Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko who today has a team to support, support, and support the work of the TSC. You know, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in charge, I'm in charge of my constituents and I'm in charge of the district that chose me. So today I call for unity, as the President requires, as our U.S.S.A. requires. To unite, unite and conquer the forest hydra, the entire forest mafia. We all have to win together and only together to win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u14	Heroic glory! Irina Volodymyrna, if you really didn't mention the last name, I'm going to check the transcript, I'm going to apologize, and I'm going to give you a minute. I need time to check the transcript now, Irina Volodymyrno. I don't have the ability to quickly check the transcript. The powder was mentioned, and the name of the powder was mentioned. The faction wasn't mentioned, I think. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the procedure? Not the question, after the question, please, after the question. Irina Volodymyrna, I'll give you a minute. If I was wrong, I'll give you a minute. Now I'm going to study the transcript. Please, Apparatus, please give me a quick transcript of Irina Volodymyrý Heratchenko's performance right now. Please give a quick transcript of Irina Volodymyr's performance to Heratzhenka. Thank you. Dear colleagues, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please, Life and Peace Party, platform.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u15	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. We've all received a report, everyone has the opportunity to make the right conclusions and determine by voting what I call for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u16	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Are they still willing to speak? From the procedure after the question, Irina Volodymyrna. I then propose to vote to approve the adoption of the interim report of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the possible facts of the ineffective activities of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, the State Water Agency of Ukraine and the State Environmental Inspection of Ukraine, their territorial bodies, enterprises, institutions and organizations that are part of their administration, which may have led to a reduction in revenues to state and local budgets in six months of activity (registration number 9220). It is proposed that a decision be taken as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[10:52:09]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. It's a non-adopted decision. Out of procedure, please, Irina Volodymyrna. Ivanna Orestovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u17	Mr. Chairman, I'm glad you offered to check the transcript, but it actually sounded a name. And I think there's a lot more to this room than the person you gave your word to. So I would like to be much more careful about what colleagues say in the rostrum, what the national MPs say, and not abuse their right to preside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u18	Even from the procedure? Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, really this is the name Col, was Helmut Cole, but he's not in the hall, in the sessional, yes. And there's not a man named Kola here either, but there is a Kola, to whom you have given the word for something, Mr. Chairman, perhaps he represents a close faction to you. And I want to stress once again that forest protection is a respect for paper, too. And you don't have to report to the TSC, this is the first time in the history of this Parliament, once again, when in three years of his or four work at TSK, this report there, yes, was spent a couple of hectares of Carpathian forests on pictures. This is to be condemned. Well, the score on the board just came up. We thank all colleagues who have not allowed this completely ridiculous TSC to continue to imitate violent activity. Well, Kola still didn't get to present his report in time, he was running the Carpathian woods around the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u20	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. It wasn't the procedure. As you present me with claims to comply with the Rules, I return that the proceedings are made out of procedure, not essentially. Therefore, the request to observe the Rules is also made by you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. We have the following question, too, without discussion: a draft law with registration number 9110 to amend certain laws of Ukraine regarding the definition of categories of persons who are recognized as disabled by war and family members of the dead Protectors and Protectors of Ukraine, and to provide them with social guarantees. It is suggested to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[10:55:02]] For 249 Decision taken. Questions are included in the agenda of the day session. I propose the adoption of a bill with registration number 9110 amending certain Ukrainian laws on the definition of categories of persons who are recognized as disabled by war and family members of the deceased Protectors and Protectors of Ukraine, as well as the granting of social guarantees (registration No. 9110). Suggests a base. Please vote. [[10:55:41]] For 265 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, we have a children's decree next, but... And this is the law, sorry, this is different, no, 9199 is not a ruling, I'm sorry. The next bill is also without discussion, registration number 9199, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Persons found to be deprived of their personal liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine and their family members, to expand the list of grounds for establishing the deprivation of personal liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine and to bring individual provisions into line with existing legislation. This is suggested to include questions in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[10:56:46]] For 276 Decision taken. Questions are included in the agenda of the day session. I propose the adoption of a bill under registration number 9199: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Persons Who have been found to be deprived of their personal liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine and their family members" to extend the list of grounds for establishing the deprivation of personal liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine and to bring individual provisions into line with existing legislation. Suggests a base. Please vote. [[10:57:32]] For 285 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. It is suggested that the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments be reduced by half to prepare for the second reading. Please vote. [[10:57:59]] For 253 Decision taken. Proposals and amendments are reduced by half. Next bill, registration number 8009: draft Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service on the extension of grounds for exemption from military service of certain categories of citizens during the period of military status. We only have a speech by Yatzik, Julia asks Gregory, there's important information, then there's a small discussion, right? Okay. Then we'll talk about it. Okay. Please, Julia Grigorovna Yatzik from the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to have a moment of your attention. My friend, Denis Tarasov, from the first days of the war, took up arms and went to defend our country, our family, our children, and you and me as part of the famous 110th Zaporez stand-alone territorial defence brigade. In January of this year, he was killed during hostilities, and in Zaporozhye he was named a square — the square of Denis Tarasov. It was with him, an expert lawyer, and an experienced military officer, the commander of this brigade, Alexander Sergiyevich Ignatius, that we have repeatedly considered issues, questions of life, everyday life, the lives of military personnel in need of a legislative settlement. And this bill is the result of our work together. In the summer of last year, we had already amended the Mobilization Act of Ukraine by granting the right to postpone military service to persons whose loved ones had been killed during hostilities or had perished during the war in Ukraine. The time has come to restore justice and give similar rights to those military personnel who are already defending our state with arms in the hands of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, both by mobilization and by contract. And this is possible by amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Military Service Act. This bill is supported both by the General Staff and the Ministry of Defence and by the Committee of Profiles, not only on the basis but also on the whole. So I'm asking you, your honor, to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u22	Thank you. Please, Bobrovsky. Who else? Are you going to be someone? Goncharenko. Please, Bobrovska, Hotcharenko, and then we vote. Please, Samantha Bobrowski, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u23	Thank you. Bobrovska Solomiya, Voice faction. You know, the moral-psychological state and the security is what unfortunately the commanders and the commanders and, in fact, the civilian population who thinks that war is just an active phase of combat and combat training. And the things that we accept today, and thank July for such an initiative, for the right to free relatives in the event of the death of a close relative in war, are what can support, especially the family. Because there are cases where four and five brothers are mobilized, and these are all the brothers that are in Mom, by the way. This reminds me once again of how our assembly centers work when men, especially the rural population, are being taken away, where there will probably be more men of the age in the city in an absolutely healthy physical state than in the communities. But I'd like to draw further attention to another important Bill 8061, which is the right to be released after captivity. I address this statement, particularly to the General Staff, and to the Ministry of Defense, finally give green light and vote in the second reading. And it is our duty to be moral toward those people, girls, and boys who are entitled, some of whom, of course, want to serve today after their rehabilitation and after the announcement that they survived in captivity, but some of them want and have the right not only to be released from captivity, but to have the right not only by means of the Geneva Convention but simply by reason of common sense. It seems to me that this is an uncritical number, and the Armed Forces will not lose, but they must respect their choice to stop their service in defense. 8061, I hope we'll see him in the daytime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u24	Please, Friz Irina. Oh, Goncharenko, okay. Please, Alexy Hotcharenko, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u25	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. An extremely important bill. I call on all my colleagues to support us now to decide and give us the opportunity, this is the first reading, but I hope that we can speed this up so that we can adopt this bill as quickly as possible, as a whole, so that it can be signed by the President. So that those relatives, the closest relatives of the people who died during this war, whose parents, children, brothers, sisters, grandchildren died or, on the contrary, grandparents, grandmothers so that they could be demolished so that they could return to their families. It's very important, but we have to move on. In general, the issue of demobilization is very acute. We're with you. Thank you, you supported my bill on the parents of three or more children, it's also important. But we need to ask the whole question, we can't get all this war on the shoulders of those people who went out a year ago either by volunteering or being mobilized but not hiding, and many of them are exhausted today. Yes, who wants to fight to the end is honor, glory and gratitude. But those who are tired, those who are exhausted, they need to be able to breathe out, they need support, it's about respect for people. So in the Supreme Council, my 9142 bill, which provides for demobilization after 18 months of service, if one wants to. I call for such bills to be adopted, to be done immediately, because our army, the most valuable one, is the people in it, and we must preserve them. And it's not just about the injuries or the people that were killed, we're losing them. Also, because they're very difficult psychologically. Our task is to support them, give them more vacations, allow them to demobilize those who are tired, so that they can protect our nation in the future. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u26	Heroic glory! Everlasting memory to all the fallen. One moment, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u27	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, thank you to the authors of this bill. In fact, he protects those today who have proved to be worth their own life and health to protect good from evil. And indeed, thousands of military officials and members of their families are awaiting this bill. But there is another problem, and I would like to ask the National Security and Defence Committee to consider it. We do have a few thousand military servicemen who, after February 24, last year, were unable or demolished in connection with the law. They've been through all these terms. They are offered to sign a contract for at least three years. And they're people of other civilian professions, they get a month's pay. From 350 to 700 bucks. They should be allowed to sign the contract before the state of war ends. And I'd like the committee to consider this. And this one, we vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u28	Thank you. Let's go to the vote, colleagues. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of registration number 8009: draft Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service on the extension of the grounds for exemption from the military service of certain categories of citizens during the period of military status. Suggests a base. Please vote. [[11:07:04]] For 276 Decision taken. Project adopted as a basis. There is a proposal to approve in general. Is there no objection? Okay. Then I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill under registration number 8009: draft Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service on the extension of the grounds for exemption from the military service of certain categories of citizens during the period of military status. Please vote. [[11:07:42]] For 291 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you. The next bill under registration number 8273: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage on the non-introduction of Ukraine's State Register of Real Estate and the removal from the State Register of Real Estate Monuments of Ukraine of individual objects of cultural heritage. It's a second reading. There's no right, can we go to the vote? Then I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill for registration number 8273 amending the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage on the non-entry into the State Register of Real Estate Monuments and the removal from the State Register of Real Estates of Ukraine of individual objects of cultural heritage. Please vote. [[11:08:45]] For 285 The law was passed in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. By factions, please show registration number 8273. Dear colleagues, we still have a children's decree to deport children. The reporter is Ruslan Alexiyovich. Is there no objection, and we will consider it later when he returns? Okay, thanks. Then we go to the next bill, it's already under discussion, registration number 9153. Draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to improve the legislative procedure. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. [[11:09:35]] For 263 Decision taken. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[11:09:55]] For 248 Decision taken. Can we move on to the discussion right away? Reporter, please, Igor Pavlovich Fries. Please contact the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u29	Hello, fellows! The bill is simple enough to understand. We have voted with you on several occasions, and yesterday we voted in favour of the adoption of the relevant laws only by the laws of Ukraine and the amendments to those laws. So the amendment to the Civil Code, I hope, when the President signs the Penal Code already, in the Tax Code, into the Budget Code, into the State Budget Act, into the relevant law relating to the judiciary and the status of judges, changes to these legal acts are made solely by separate laws amending those acts. But we do have a question when 116 to the second reading in the given legislation our colleagues are trying to insert the right. So that this is not the idea that these laws should be amended only by changes to these laws. So you can't change the budget by 116 so you can't change the Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges, the Criminal Code, the Customs Code, the Tax Code. These are the key issues, these are the key legal acts that the state is behind. Therefore, the proposal to uphold this law before the first reading. The regulatory committee’s comments are correct regarding the additions to the relevant rules of the Rules that should cover the procedure. I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u30	Thank you, Igor Pavlovich. Sergey Vitaliyovich, conclusion of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u31	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The regulatory committee at its meeting considered the draft Law (Registration No. 9153), which proposes to amend part six of article 90, part one of article 116 of the Parliament’s Rules. The committee noted that the proposed changes deserved attention, but they did not provide for a complete solution to the problem, and for the introduction of the proposed novels, changes were also necessary for another part of the 90th article, and for article 118 of the Supreme Council Rules, with which, in fact, the reporter, Igor Pavlovich Fries, had just agreed. That is, the committee also considers it necessary to clarify the wording of article 116 of the Rules. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion on this bill, also notes that the administration does not object to its adoption. Therefore, in the summary of the matter, our committee adopted the conclusion of the draft Law, registration number 9153, and recommends that the Parliament, following its consideration in the first reading, accept it on the basis of our committee's instructions to prepare the draft for second reading, clarifying the proposed amendments to article 116 of the Rules and providing for the necessary changes to the part of article 90, article 118 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, which is announced by the chairman of the plenary meeting in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u32	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Please write two in a row, two in a row against factions and groups. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please. Sergey Vlasenko, please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I don't think there's a secret to anyone that, especially in this office, abuse of 116 articles and second readings has become massive. I just want to remind you of one simple situation. All of us remember that the former MP, and today’s Constitutional Court judge, was running around the hall and in the Rural Ages Act, instilling changes to the Constitutional Court Act. We all remember that. Let's do this in part. What colleagues have proposed in their bill allows for changes in laws that are amended only by these laws, apart from everything else, and do not put them into second reading. And there's not going to be any way to get into the Civil Code, there's not going to be any building bills or anything else, there's not going to be any way to enforce the law. Amendments to the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges Act to some other bill that is completely unrelated. So this initiative is absolutely right, and it needs to be supported. In fact, I agree with the comments made by the regulatory committee, which took into account some technical inaccuracies rather than the strategic and fundamental ones in this bill. I think the Committee will be able to correct it in preparing for the second reading, and we will get a normal, quality bill that will actually improve the legislative work and allow for a reduction in the number of manipulations and 116 articles of the Rules, and with the possibility of stifling amendments, subtle amendments, let's say, in bills that have nothing to do with these amendments. So I would urge everyone to support this bill, to add it to the second reading as soon as possible, to put it into the session hall of the Supreme Council on second reading and to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u34	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Ustinova Alexander Yuriovn, Voice. Who? I can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u35	Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u36	Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, please. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I support Mr. Fries' idea of making appropriate changes to the Rules. As a representative of the tax, customs committee, honestly speaking, it was also annoying to catch various amendments to the Tax Code or the Customs Code. I understand both the position of the right committee, and, frankly, we will never build a normal legislative state if we constantly make a hundred or five hundred amendments to the codes. So if there's a notice of a regulatory committee, let's count it down to the first reading. This is a clever initiative that had to be taken a few decades ago. But it's a good thing we're correcting this situation right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u38	Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u39	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Respectful colleagues certainly need to stop making amendments that have nothing to do with the subject of the law when amending the laws to the second vote. and the ideas of the law which was adopted in the first reading. Thus, appropriate adjustments are appropriate. Of course, the key is the conclusion of both our science and expertise committee and our profile committee. In the first reading, this law should be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, Nina Petrovna Jujanina, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Gerasim Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u42	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I'll tell you in the first reading, we support this initiative. But now it's about bad. At first glance, the initiative is very correct, because, in fact, we see amendments to the laws on rural old age being made to the Constitutional Court, so on and so forth, and so on and so forth. But the devil, as always, is in detail. Just listen carefully. Who will determine whether this amendment to this law is before that? And that's why I'm very careful that this mechanism can become a serious mechanism for influencing any national MP who's going to amend the laws. That's why, in the first reading, we're going to support this initiative, but we're asking everyone very carefully to read this particular bill for the second reading -- this is a change to the Rules, to the document that governs our actions in this room -- in order not to allow this mechanism to be used for the purpose that is now being heard from this rostrum by the rapporteurs who presented this law, but rather to be used to prevent national MPs from applying laws. Because something tells me that this hidden target might be the primary. Therefore, we are careful to follow this law. And don't forget, the right of a national MP to file an application is his right to legislative initiative, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u44	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Would you please be interested in the "Serve of the People"? Fries Igor Pavlovich, please. Call the deputies for a vote, we'll be voting soon. From Calchenko's motives, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u45	Colleagues, a little bit like that, you know, clarifying what it's for. You know, recently, a very important law has been passed that regulates damage to property damage. So that's what the colleagues put in this law was an appropriate amendment to the Civil Code, which virtually flattens the question of whether an inheritance can be formed and where an inheritance can be formed. And we need now to prepare a whole set of changes related to the regulation of this issue in order to restore the opportunity to inherit property. That is to say, this is the premeditated adoption of this law: so that changes in laws are only adopted by changes to laws and are not allowed to be implemented into rights to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u46	Thank you. Sergey Vitaliovich Calchenko's motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u47	You know, dear colleagues, it's very hard to find a black cat in a dark room when she wasn't there. One speaker spoke of the fact that who would determine which law was the subject of the proposal? So it's an initiator of a national MP who's making a proposal, and he's pointing out what law is being applied to, whether it's a proposal or an amendment. This will not be determined either by the Main Committee or by the Supreme Council in its deliberations in the Hall. So there is no risk here that it will be difficult for the Main Committee to identify which law the proposal or amendment is made to. So I repeat, I recommend that everyone vote in favour of this draft law in the first reading on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, please gather the deputies for a vote, please. I would like to add that as the head of the working group on the issue of parliamentary reform, this issue has been raised repeatedly, especially during the Cox mission in 2015-2016, and is now rising. This is a question of more truly orderly work with drafts for second reading, so there is no contradiction with either strategy or with the strategy of parliamentary reform, and all the warnings of opposition colleagues can, of course, be taken into account before the second reading and also given a place in the bill. So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. Registration No. 9153: Draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the improvement of the legislative procedure. It is suggested that the proposal be based on the proposals, taking into account the suggestions made in the Committee’s conclusion in line with part one of article 116. Please vote. [[11:23:09]] For 262 Decision taken. The draft law was adopted in the first reading as a basis. Please, Your Honor, let us move on to the next law. And, excuse me, I'd like to go back to the discussion that we had, and I've been given the transcript, yes, please, Irina Volodymyrna. Yes, I promised, if I was wrong, I would apologize. But I would like to draw your attention to the wording that was. So this is a quote from the transcript, and you say, "And when the Parliament is rumbling about Koli not in the hall, it's looking for him for half an hour, it's also a view of the forest." Yeah, Tishchenka's formal name didn't ring a bell, so I'm sorry and I'm giving you one minute now, just like I promised. But it was clear from the context that now only one Santa was missing in the room, only one Santa was looking for. We can conduct a survey of MPs that they applauded. I think it was Mikolayovich Tishchenko. But technically you're right, so one minute, please. I apologize officially, Irina Volodymyrically, for misusing the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Rules on the Right to Replica. And, at the same time, I welcome the delicacy of the public, the public speaking, and I don't know how to say it in English, in my speeches, when you can remember a person without mentioning his name. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u49	Thank you. You know, we're back now with Mr. Alexander and other colleagues, by the way, for the first time there I was the head of the faction, the other, unfortunately, factions' heads weren't present at the Mona Dialogues. And we talked for a long time about reform of Parliament, about parliamentary ethics and about parliamentary culture. And, of course, I think it's very important when we're in this room first out of high political culture and mutual respect. I want to say that the chairman of the sitting is just the chairman of the sitting, they're just equal. And to urge the Presidency to listen carefully to speakers, not at this time to communicate with other colleagues, in order to be able to moderate the hall, and above all to respect those ranks that represent not opposition today, but minority, because we are now as statesmen all working together for the country, not commenting on minorities. Believe me, both Presidium and Parliamentarianism will win.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u50	Thank you, Irina Volodymyrna, for your position. Mikola Mikolaiovich, there's no line because I didn't mention you. Mikola Mikolaiovich, this was mentioned in the transcript. Remember? Okay. Then I'm going to announce the information, then I'm going to give you a 1 minute line. Please, in accordance with article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the ninth interfractional parliamentary association "TCC NAZRESS" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of this association has been elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tishnik Mikolayayovich. Welcome, colleagues. Please, the minute is Tishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u51	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that there's a certain master of the oligarch boards, even during the war, hanging more than the hairs of the entire faction. And secondly, I want to say that with the Kola Forest Mafia, he fought like that, and he would fight for the President, for our team, for the sake of our U.S.S.S.A. Mafia, wait, we're coming after you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we go back to the Ukrainian Children's Deportation Order. We appeared just after the meeting. Therefore, colleagues, I propose to move on to question 9267: the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments and governments of foreign states, international organizations and their inter-parliamentary assemblies on the condemnation of crimes committed by the Russian Federation of the forced deportation of Ukrainian children. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. [[11:27:29]] For 258. Decision taken. The bill is included in the agenda of the day session. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[11:27:51]] For 205 Decision taken. Please move on to the question. I invite you to report to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u53	Mr. President, your opinion is proposed for consideration by the draft Order on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments and governments of foreign states, international organizations and their inter-parliamentary assemblies on the condemnation of crimes committed by the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus by the forced deportation of Ukrainian children. Russia’s armed aggression against Ukraine has been taking place for over 9 years, and since February 24, 2022, it has acquired the character of a full - scale armed incursion. Among all the crimes committed by the Russian Federation against Ukraine are probably the most terrible crimes committed against our children. And you know that it's because of these crimes that the person who is leading the Russian Federation today and the child's pseudo-builder received an arrest warrant from the International Criminal Court. Dear friends, I believe that in the Ukrainian Parliament today we must do our utmost to make a political appeal to the Supreme Council to condemn these crimes, to demand that our fellow parliamentarians of other countries join this issue, and to make sure that Ukrainian children return to their families as soon as possible. I would like to express my gratitude to all the co-authors, and especially to Oleni Kostovni Kondratjuk, who is the main author of this decision and who has done a great deal today to prevent this issue from coming together on the international agenda. So, dear colleagues, I invite everyone to join this statement, let's vote and make sure that the topic of Ukrainian children never comes up with the message of international institutions, and Ukrainian children return to their Ukrainian homes as soon as possible. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u54	Heroic glory! Yeah, well, there's someone who can represent the position of the committee. Please, Alexander the Lover of the Bastard of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u55	Honourable Head, respected colleagues, indeed, one of the terrible consequences of Russian aggression is crimes against Ukrainian children. The draft decrees contain terrible numbers of victims. Nearly 2,000 of our children died, injured, or disappeared, and nearly 20,000 forcibly deported. That is why the appearance of this decree is very relevant and important and necessary. Our committee reviewed the draft ruling, unanimously supported and proposed, and similarly called for the support of this project in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u56	Please sign two in, two in, two in, against.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u57	Please, National Deputy Greenchuk Oksana Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u58	Please give the word to Alexander Kowalczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u59	Please, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u60	Alexander Kowalczuk, political party "Slut of the People". Dear colleagues, Your Honor, I would like first of all to thank the authors of this decree for highlighting an extremely important topic for our country. I would like to remind you that the war in Ukraine is not just on the battlefield, but also in the spiritual part of our upbringing, in the moral sector, cybersecurity, in various ways, the enemy attacks our country today. And one of the most shameful phenomena of this war is what is happening to Ukrainian children today, to families, to parents who today have no information and do not know where their children are and what is happening to them. As a father of four, I can imagine the situation of parents, families, grandparents, relatives, and loved ones who are now outside our country against their will. And today we are with you, I would say, a sacred task and a duty to address daily, weekly, with every opportunity our international partners, colleagues, and friends to bring this vital information. Because the numbers are amazing. Thousands of children have died, thousands of children have been disabled in various degrees, and more than 20,000 children are outside our country. I am absolutely sure that Parliament will fully support this decision by a majority. Thanks again to the authors. And I urge us to make such public communications, everyone at the level of their capabilities. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u61	Thank you. Please, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u62	Dear Ukrainians, the mass attempt to rob Ukrainian children of their identity was the first to happen in the last century when small Ukrainians, as children of enemies of the people, were transported by thousands to the GULAG or forcibly assimilated into Soviet families. In fact, the Soviet Union did not suffer any punishment for this crime. Unpunished evil always returns. That is why Russia, which is now a full legal successor to this man - made steel regime, is completely repeating these practices. And it is absolutely true that today the whole world has recognized the illegal deportation of small Ukrainians as part of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. And the first thing we can do today is attract Putin and his gang, which is the illegal deportation of children. And it was after this crime that the International Criminal Court in The Hague issued an arrest warrant for Putin and his gang. It is very important that both the European Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have already adopted resolutions condemning this crime. And I, as co-author of this statement, consider it to be extremely important. But what I want to encourage us all to do is not to feed the rear but to hold the leadership and to accept such important statements first. The other one. Today we don't even know the exact number of children deported illegally. In the decree we're talking about one digit, but our authority is even talking about 19 to 300,000, maybe we have children deported illegally because we don't have access to occupied areas. And our task is, of course, to find every little Ukrainian, to bring him home. This problem started in the 14th year, when the bastards kidnapped Ukrainian children from occupied areas, they took out children's homes. We resisted it, brought the children back, but today we have children.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u63	Thank you. Please give the word "Constankevitch" to Irina Miroslavni, the MP's "For the Future Party." After that, I will ask for a minute of Bilozer, Pavlovenko, and Nemira.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u64	Mr. Chairman, the national deputies, the Group for the Future, of course, supports this decision. But I want to take advantage of the opportunity to highlight the need for our work together in order not just to support this call, but everyone has to work on that part of the broad international front as well as the internal front to resolve the issue of returning home, returning to Ukraine of deported Ukrainians and, in particular, children. In fact, the first part of this question is international. I would like to point out that the first and only Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has adopted a series of important international decisions, where, first of all, it has evaluated the actions of Russia. Next, she suggested ways to resolve the issue. And the third, most important, is the punishment and responsibility of the licensee regime for these crimes. Therefore, I believe that we should support and thank all colleagues from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for their progressive position on this issue. And now the second part of what I want to point out is that the deportation of Ukrainian children is actually an element of genocide. And Russia, led by Putin, deliberately kidnaps, kills, destroys Ukrainian children, because this is our future. We need to understand that these are not illegal acts, they are actions that must be treated and defined as genocide and punished as genocide. In particular, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe also said its word on genocide policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u65	Thank you. Please give it to Billozer Larissa Mikolayovni, MP group "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! Indeed, recently the Ukrainian delegation of PARJE returned from the spring session, where a historic resolution and decision were adopted to recognize the violent displacement of Ukrainian children as a crime of genocide. This is clearly covered by article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention of Genocide and provides for punishment. And so it imposes the responsibility of every state on the planet to do everything possible to stop genocide and to bring war criminals to justice. Because right now in Ukraine, Russia is implementing the most extensive precedent in the history of Ukraine for the abduction and murder of our children. There are laws of war, but, we see, the Russian Federation and Putin are fighting defenseless children, women and the elderly. And we have to do everything we can to report that these crimes of the world community, that they have to be punished.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u67	Thank you. Please, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, MP's "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, we will no doubt support this decision, this appeal to the states of the world to condemn the actions of the Russian Federation on forced export, the abduction of Ukrainian children. Undoubtedly, the actions of today's Russia are a crime, a genocide against the Ukrainian people, against Ukrainian children. And I'm sure we have to do everything we can to get every child back. At the same time, the important actions of the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian authorities to let us know every child we deported so that we can immediately restore the appropriate database of orphans, children deprived of parental care. So that we don't have cases where the Ministry of Social Policy, without any explanation, removes children, for example, from the Hersonian house of a child who was illegally exported, and only by insistence on the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich. And then, dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will support the stated draft of the decree and the appeal. But we would like to pay attention to the following. Yesterday there was information that Ukraine was finally running a register of missing missing persons. Do you know when this register was to be created and worked? Six years ago. Six years ago, Ukraine failed to run a register, the State Register of Missing Persons. The lesson must be next. Now that everyone's talking about the importance of such a determination, we have to remember that these 20,000, which, according to incomplete data, are illegally deported, I want to emphasize, 20,000 is the Russian Federation, but according to available data, more than 1,000 are in Belarus. So in this situation, when only 361 returned, we didn't make another mistake, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. I ask you to prepare yourself for making a decision. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a proposal that takes into account the proposals made by the Committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments and governments of foreign states, international organizations and their inter-parliamentary assemblies on the condemnation of crimes committed by the Russian Federation of the forced deportation of Ukrainian children. Project Registration Number Regulation 9267. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:43:42]] For 294 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Beautiful. Dear colleagues, the next bill, 8185. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the application by the law enforcement authorities of unmanned aircraft and against their illegal use. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:44:22]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two for, two for, please sign up. While you're signing up, come on, Jonas is still asking to speak. And then we go two in, two in, two in. Please, Sergey Konstantinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, the events of the last year have shown that we are all at war, in which motivation, technology, military strategy play a key role. In fact, this bill allows us to legally use drones by the National Police, the National Guard, the Ukrainian Security Service and other law enforcement authorities in accordance with the unified law enforcement order. On the part of our colleagues, some comments were made, especially our colleague, Alexander Ustinov, who spoke about the possibility of using drones by private individuals. We agreed with our colleagues that we would work on this bill for the second reading so that it would not raise any doubts. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please at the legislative level allow the BSC, the Police, to use unmanned vehicles flying in the air, moving on or under the water surface, to ensure national security. In addition, fellow believers, you and I are fully aware that such unmanned vessels should not be used by private individuals or by appropriate individuals in the border line through the state border and checkpoints. Therefore, after discussing the use of unmanned aircraft (the registration number of Bill 8185), the committee asks for support on a basis. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u73	Thank you, Sergey Costinovich. Let's move on to the discussion. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Anatoliyevich Danuzu, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People". I take it he's giving the word "Alexandro Sergiyovich Bakumov"? Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we ask you to support this bill as a basis. It's really important, because drones now have a decisive impact on the security of our nation, including its law enforcement component. There's a definition of what an unmanned aviation system is, a definition of what a remote pilot is. The authority of the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Police for the use of unmanned aircraft, to combat unmanned aircraft is being duly regulated. Yes, there are really discussions about the use of unmanned aircraft by civilians. I'm sure that together with the representatives of all the MP factions and groups before the second reading, we'll analyze these norms and produce the right legal mechanism so that there's no risk on these issues. Dear colleagues, the impeccable bill, I ask you to support it because it is about security and the rule of law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u76	Dear Mr. Head, may I have a word with you, Mr. Sergio Alekseyev?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u77	Please, Sergey Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, of course, the idea of this bill is correct. But the faction of "European Solidarity" will be held in the vote in the first reading for this bill because, as far as the terms of this bill are concerned, they do not correspond in many ways with the Ukrainian Air Code. Like the Ukrainian Air Code, for example, distinguishes civil aviation and civil aviation – this bill does not offer such a bill and much more. It is also worth noting that in the Supreme Council, for consideration in the second reading, a bill amending the Ukrainian Air Code on the improvement of the legislative regulation in the area of unmanned civil aircraft under registration number 3716. And he was already considered by the committee and ready for his second reading on July 14, 2021. And some changes to certain articles of the Ukrainian Air Code in the Bills of Registration 3716 and 8185 are completely identical. And we think that, first of all, we should vote in favour of the amendments to the Air Code and these bills that I have just mentioned, and then we should vote in favour of this bill, which is more logical. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u79	The word is given to the national deputy of Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, the faction of the political party "Golos". Please, Alexandra Yuriovna Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, you know how important drones are now on the front. You will now vote on two bills. First, please note the use of unmanned aircraft by law enforcement authorities and their illegal use. I'm sorry, we've got all the drones now and all of our aerial intelligence flying is illegal. But if we now accept a second law of responsibility for this, all our pilots now, the whole community will be outside the law. This bill needs to be finalized for second reading, and the requirements for the registration of drones as a civil aviation must be removed because we cannot do so right now. This should be done after the end of the war. The other one. We need to remove mandatory government certificates from these bills to the pilots because they are all. thousands now of our pilots, who are now piloting drones, will once again be outside the law and will be responsible for helping us now on the front for what they're teaching. Therefore, this bill certainly needs to be finalized for the second reading. We'll stick with the first one. If these changes are not made, unless there is a consultation with the community that tens of thousands of drones are now supplying to the front, please excuse me, this spit will be in the face of those who are now protecting our sky along with our aircraft pilots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u81	Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, the Fatherland faction. After that. I mean, he's handing over the Cosmacks, right? Please, Andrew Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u82	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, the Fatherland faction has today made a decision, as always, consistently and resolutely to support all proposals relating to support for the defence forces of Ukraine, the Armed Forces, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, the territorial defence force, voluntary formations. So, of course, we're for that. We have a point to make here, but we don't think we can talk about this right now. No, we need to say that and move on. But that's not what we can say, unfortunately, about the majority of the factions in the faction that only 68 votes in favour of volunteer formations, for the support of those who fought the Shahedes tonight from the points of impression. They joined forces with the terrorist forces and defeated six Shahedes today over Kiev. When the Armed Forces of Ukraine are at war on the front, volunteer formations that they don't want to reinforce by a committee headed by a well-known master, and these bills are constantly being rejected, saying that with those who steal eggs, I mean the Ministry of Defense, they don't agree. But the volunteers, the volunteers today, and the night they showed it, the eggs were steel. And they don't need the eggs of the Ministry of Defense, the more dead. That's why we support and believe that the Ministry of Justice and the National Police will be strengthened by this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, and we are moving on to making a decision. Please, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the application by the law enforcement authorities of unmanned aircraft and against their illegal use (the registration number of Bill 8185). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:54:04]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agreed immediately on the next one without discussion. So I immediately propose to take the project as a basis. Show the factions, please. The factions. I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on the establishment of responsibility for violations of the order and regulations of Ukraine's airspace by operators of unmanned aircraft (registration No. 8186). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:54:57]] For 232 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next bill, 6522. I would like to propose a brief consideration of this bill. [[11:55:27]] For 210 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's do two-for-two-against. Please write down who will discuss this bill. Two in, two in. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u84	Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to speak to Sergey Aleksey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u85	Please, Sergey Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the idea of this bill is also good with regard to the administrative responsibility for violating the requirements of the organization of tenders. But the faction of "European Solidarity" will also be supported by it because there are a number of observations to this bill. First of all, two months have been set for the duration of the commitment to administrative responsibility. For some reason, the bill expands to six months, but not later than two years before the event that took place. Also, failure to respect the principle of legal certainty. The fact is that the drafting of this bill gives the right to a wide range of people who are not even bidders, to make demands for bidders, which could lead to chaos in general. And there are also many competitions, the standards proposed in article 213. 3 KUPAP will replicate existing standards, as described by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. So in the first reading, the faction "European Solidarity" will hold back for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u87	Please, "Serve of the people." It's Kowalczuk, but I get it, Med, right? Please, Medjanik Vjačeslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, with regard to this bill, I ask you to support it, because it is really very important. Because, according to the State Judicial Administration, this issue is a very difficult one, and the offenses are not brought to justice. In recent years, only one or two cases have been tried in court for the offence. And we know that lack of responsibility for such actions creates a false sense of impunity and provokes further violations of the law. So please support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, the "Fatherland" faction. Krulko, please, Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u90	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We have examined this bill by the faction of Fatherskin, including the conclusions that have been presented to the bill by expert institutions such as the Kyiv National University of Taras Shevchenka, the National Academy of Internal Affairs, the Research Service of the Supreme Council, the Office of the Attorney General. All these organizations agree that this bill, its idea is right, but at the same time it needs serious work. So we're going to propose that this bill be sent for re-reading in order to submit a bill that meets the requirements of legislation and that there will be no inconsistencies, such as review and correction, which requires the sanctioning of articles, the size of an administrative fine cannot be the same as those provided for in the sanctions of a particular part of the Criminal Code for committing the relevant crimes of criminal offences. This bill provides for a period of time for imposing administrative tightening, which has already been noted by previous speakers. And this is, in our opinion, groundless. Part one of article 164 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations in the proposed edition raises remarks, since such an approach gives the right to an unlimited circle of persons who may not be party to the tender procedure to apply to the purchaser, which is also unacceptable and unreasonable. This is why the "Fatherland" faction proposes to work on this bill in more detail and to bring it out after further consideration by the Supreme Council after re-reading it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u92	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, surely we must strengthen our responsibility regarding those who avoid the provision of public information. All of us have faced the fact that there is real corruption behind the concealment of the relevant information. We've chosen our path to the European Union, and you know how harsh the conditions for overcoming this disease are. And we're going to support this bill so that people really know where budget spending is today, and who, where and what he buys for the money that people pay for their taxes. The bill must be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Administrative Responsibility for Violations of State Financial Control (Registration No. 6522). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:02:14]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to send for the rereading of the first reading. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing that Bill 6522 be sent back for re-reading. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[12:02:47]] For 221 The decision is not taken. I propose that the subject of the legislative initiative be sent for further work. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote, it's Bill 6522. Please vote. [[12:03:16]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The bill is rejected. Thank you. Let's move on. Next bill 8213: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Material Responsibility of Military Servants and Compared Persons for Damage to the State on the Physical Responsibility of Police. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:03:54]] For 210 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-again. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please give the floor to the national deputy to Danuci Alexander Anatolyevich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u94	Please pass the word to Maxim Pavlück. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u95	Please pass it on to Pavlück. Please, Pauluk. So I asked to pass it on to Pavlück. Please turn on the microphone for Maxim Pavlück. I can see that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u96	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! The bill is submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and initiated by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The bill will remove earlier gaps in the issue of the material responsibility of police officers for the damage done to the State. In particular, it will allow for the full extension of the Ukrainian Law on the Material Responsibility of Military Servants and Comparative Persons to police officers who have caused any material harm to the State. At its meeting, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis for the first reading. So please support me, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u97	Thank you. Please give the floor to national deputy Sauras Maxim Vitaliovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Sergio Olegovich Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u99	Please, Sergey Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, this bill refers to the liability of the police for improperly carrying out their duties or for other violations. But this bill is proposed in accordance with article 2 to delete the words "Ministry of Internal Affairs," replacing them with "police." But this replacement is not equivalent, because the Ministry of Internal Affairs includes quite a lot of departments: it's the State Border Service, it's the National Guard of Ukraine, it's also the State Department of Emergency Situations. So we're narrowing it down a lot to people who can be attracted to material responsibility, that's just the National Police coworkers, the police. Since this narrows down the circle considerably and does not meet the purpose of this bill, the faction "European Solidarity" in the first reading will abstain from voting for this bill. And if the second reading is corrected, then we will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich Eutuszek, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u102	Please pass the word to Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u103	Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u104	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the presidency, the distinguished national MPs, in principle, such an initiative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is right, and we really need to bring both terminology and understanding into line. And in fact, when we talk about narrowing down the very notion of the material responsibility of officials of the National Police instead of representatives of the IMF, we need to understand that the material responsibility for harming the State is already spreading to representatives and the National Guard, and the State Service from emergencies. The point is that it is necessary to bring into line with the law that the Ministry of Internal Affairs refers to. As far as I'm concerned, the bill is purely technical, and the inaccuracies that have been discovered by our scientific and scientific administration, I'm sure we can add to our second reading. But given that the National Police are now performing and are not in charge of this function, we know about the formation of the offensive brigades, we need to support such an initiative by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In fact, today the police are not only law enforcement officers, they today refer to the forces of protection, but to the very near future and the forces of attack. And honor and glory to those who are approaching our great victory today. Please support this legislative initiative. And "Fatherland" in the first reading will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u105	Thank you. Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group. Dear colleagues, after this speech, we vote. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u106	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the "Trust" MP thinks the bill is sufficient, let's say, clear, clear. It's an initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers, and it's about everyone being equal before the law, and they all have to be responsible for their actions, including the material damage they can do as a result. Yes, there are certain issues that concern, as colleagues have said, the narrowing of categories that may fall within the scope of the bill. It seems to me that we can work with dealing with individual issues. In general, we believe that the first reading must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Material Responsibility of Military Servants and Comparative Persons for Damage to the State on the Material Responsibility of Police (registration number 8213). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:11:11]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we agreed on the Conciliation Council on the next bill that if there were any amendments, we would miss it and move on. What "no-no"? Next Bill 9156. Brainy, please, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u108	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, is in order of the day. So if we're going to move it somewhere, we have to put that question into the voting room and define ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u109	Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u110	No, I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u111	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u112	This is an important bill, reported by our colleague Roman Veacheslavovich Baby, and there are the right things in this law. So if the hall is determined, we will be able to move it. Please put this question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u113	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'll just let you know you weren't on the Conciliation Council. I'm just going to let you know that that's the order we set today that if there was a bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, dear fellows. Let's not get you in charge, okay? Thank you. Come on, next 9156. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure that property rights are inviolable. I'm proposing 9156, 9156-1, 9156-d, and I'm proposing to include these bills in the agenda of the day session. Please, Your Honor. [[12:13:11]] For 267 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:13:35]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please. From the report? It's a report, isn't it? All right, let's do it then. He's gonna report right now, isn't he? Ah, there's the first Deputy Justice Minister, Horvec Eugene Mikolaiovich. Please report. And then the head of the Fris subcommittee, and then two in favor, two in opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u114	Honourable People's Deputies, Bill 9156, drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers to implement the Constitutional Court's decision on the integrity of property rights. I'm not going to take up your time, talk about his advantages, because the Main Committee, the Committee on Legal Policy, has decided to support committee bill 9156-d, which takes into account the relevant observations. We support this decision of the committee and ask that it be approved immediately on the basis and as a whole and that our government bill be rejected accordingly. Why is it important to accept it immediately in general? Because on May 16 the decision of the Constitutional Court, Minnesota, will not be able to cancel the decisions of the State registries. This poses some risks to the stability of the registration system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u115	Thank you. Please give the floor to the head of the Legal Policy Committee, Igor Pavlovich Fries. Please, Igor Pavlovich. Please, you're like a co-author, and as a committee, four minutes. Set four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u116	Thank you. I won't be taking your time for four minutes. I've already realized that I've filled your session with my bills. But, colleagues, why is this bill so you can understand and support it as much as possible? As you know, we have the Law on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights, which regulates all matters related to the registration of real estate, the charge of registration, and the inaction of registrants. That is, a set of laws related to the registration of real estate. And there is another law that regulates matters related to the registration of businesses, legal persons, and all that is involved. In November of 22nd of the Constitution, the Court examined the constitutional complaint and determined that the provisions of article 37 of this Law on State registration of property are unconstitutional in the matter of procedural matters of decisions taken by the Ministry of Justice and annulling the State registration of goods rights. And he obliged us with you, the Supreme Council, to accept appropriate changes to this law, which would be constitutional. As the prime minister put it, they submitted their bill as the Cabinet of Ministers, which they thought settled the matter. There was an alternative thought, which is the author of which is me, who regulates the issue in general to clean up administrative order and to refer it to the court so that those decisions would be made in the name of Ukraine and there were no questions to them in the order of administrative procedure. But realizing that it's difficult to do this now during the war, because, first of all, the courts are not ready, second of all, we're introducing a completely new scheme, a new procedure and a new process, and I've also agreed that we need to do a committee bill that's being presented to you today. We and the Legal Policy Committee, together with Minust, with the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, with the Supreme Council's advisory service, have found a structure that we believe corresponds to the Constitution, which, in our opinion, allows us to continue the work of the Anti-Rayder Commission on 15 May, to ensure the rights of citizens and the security of their property. That is why we need to support this bill as a whole. And, with your permission, as a representative of the committee, I will take note of the committee's decision. To recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the security of property rights, prepared by the Ukrainian National Deputies, as a result of the first reading of the Committee, to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. And in the event of its adoption as a law to entrust the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to carry out editorial and technical legal work on its text. In this regard, Bills Nos. 9156 and 9156. Decline. And, colleagues, I'm sure that the procedure for state registration and the charges that we've proposed in the alternative bill will find its decision through the courts. We will find the opportunity to recognize without question the rights and to make decisions without question about the annulment of these rights through the single branch of power, through the courts of Ukraine, and thereby to add further confidence in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u117	Thank you, Igor Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, please let us write down: two in favour, two in opposition to this bill. Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the "Voice" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u118	Colleagues, let's go ahead and vote on all of Fries' laws, because a man won't rest until we vote. The bill is supported, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u119	Please, Dear Mikolayovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u120	Please pass the word to Dennis Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u121	Please, Dennis Vejacheslavovich Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u122	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. The activities of the Anti-Rerading College are quite effective. We are now seeing an increase in complaints and the possibility of raids. If we don't vote, on May 15 her activities will stop directly and we will have irreversible consequences. So I ask everyone to support this bill and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u123	Thank you. Please give the floor to national deputy Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland." Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u124	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, let's actually be honest about the purpose of this bill. The purpose of this bill is to close the gap that we have since May 15 in the work of the so-called anti-rerader commission of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. I remember this anti-residence commission of the Ministry of Justice, everyone at the time saying that it was a temporary phenomenon that really needed to be delegated to the judicial authorities, not to take some of those powers and so on, and so on, and let the courts handle all these matters. Now this committee has been working for several years and, you know, there's nothing more permanent than something temporary. And the problem is not really in this law, the law, of course, needs to be supported so that there is no possibility for the raiders to solve their issues in a more easy way right now. But the problem is that we have not been given complete and comprehensive judicial reform today. I would like to remind you that thanks to most of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, four years ago the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges is not working. Three, nearly three years later, the Supreme Council of Justice did not work, and this led to an absolute outflow of the judiciary. According to the U.S. Attorney's Office, of the 7,000 judges we need today, we have an order of 3,000 vacancies. And of course, that's when some temporary artificial mechanisms are instilled that solve certain government issues and state problems. But if we're a real state, we have to do everything we can to get these functions done as quickly as possible not a year after the war, but as quickly as possible, these functions have been handed over to the judicial authorities, and the courts, as in any other state, have quickly, qualitatively and professionally resolved commercial disputes, including those that have credentials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna, "European Solidarity" faction. Nina Petrovno? Oh, you're here. God, I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, in fact, our lawyers also say that after such a long period of time, the work of the interim anti-residence commission would have to make fundamental changes to the legislation in order to make this temporary phenomenon that I thought we had already defeated, it turns out, the commission continues to work, it turns out, even now often the registrars allow for such an aberration as raiding. So actually, in order to keep the commission running, we need to extend the deadline. But by the way, there are other changes in the draft law that are already relevant to the new challenges and new realities that are now there. This is also the application of sanctions under the Sanctions Act. The existence of this fact should make it impossible to carry out a state registration of rights, and this should be checked by state registrars. So I think we're going to support the adoption of this bill now, but according to our lawyers, we need to work on fundamental changes in order, as the previous reporter has said, to lead to a trial from. That's exactly the question, because otherwise, this is our commission, which is not ideal, which we're already very aware of, that it's not the only one to be the superjudgment that solves the issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion on this issue. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure that property rights are inviolable (registration number 9156-d). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:25:04]] For 279 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed on a basis and in general, so I'm putting it all together. I propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure that property rights are inviolable (registration number 9156-d). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:25:42]] For 280 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. One second, colleagues. Please, Motovilover.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u128	Guys, I'm asking you to change the procedure for reviewing the bill and to rule out the daily Bill 6134. Thank you. Put this question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, in 6134 we did not have agreements on the Conciliation Council. And in order to get him out of the way of the day, we have to vote. Dear colleagues, I am proposing that Motovilovnik Andrija Viktorovich remove from today’s agenda a bill on consumer rights (second reading) (registration number 6134) from today’s agenda. Please vote. [[12:27:25]] For 226 Thank you. Decision taken. Out of procedure, please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u130	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, the only request I have is for all the proposals that are being made to follow the only standard. It's the only request. Because really, I think there has to be one approach to every action in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u131	Thank you. Arthur Volodymyrovich, unlike others, you were on the Conciliation Council today. And it's about the previous bill that we all unanimously agreed with you that if we had a question raised, we would remove it from the agenda without discussion. This was the decision of the Conciliation Council. I want to remind everyone. After this bill, we didn't have that decision. That is why this question was now put to the vote in the hall. It's easy for everyone to understand. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov, also with procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u132	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, may I? I'd like to address you as Head of the Supreme Council. According to what article of the Rules is the concept of “homeliness” on the Conciliation Council? If you can provide such information. If not, the previous bill will be put to the vote as well. This will be in line with the Rules. If the hall is defined, it's fair, you can take it down. If not, note what article of the Rules allows the Head of the Supreme Council to change his own way of dealing with matters in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u133	Dmitri Alexanderovich, thank you. I don't know, maybe because you're sitting far away, I answered that question before. This is not my decision, this is the decision of the Conciliation Council, and this is the same article of the Rules that regulates that the agenda is formed by the Conciliation Council. I think you're a professional person, you can find that article quietly. Please move on, dear fellows. Next Bill 6475, 6475-1, 6475-2, 6475-D. This is the draft Law on the Use of Auxiliary Reproductive Technologies and Substitute Motherhood. I would like to suggest that we consider these bills in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:29:47]] For 216 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, with reporters, or immediately: two in favour, two in favour? Two in, two in. Please, then. Reporters? They want reporters. Please, then, allow me to invite the first Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine, Ms. Dubrova Sergio Alexandrovich, please, on the basis of the first draft. There will be Danusz, there will be Wagner, and then there will be Wagner, and then there'll be two in a row, two in a row. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u134	The Honourable Head, the Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law on Auxiliary Reproductive Technologies and Substitute Motherhood is a comprehensive bill and one that takes into account both the realities of military time and the postwar reconstruction of Ukraine. The bill takes legal issues into account for the first time to ensure equal access of family couples to auxiliary reproductive technologies and is of the utmost importance that clearly distinguishes the rights, obligations of the steakholders of the process, normalizes the issue of donation of reproductive cells, strengthens the import/export of reproductive cells in and out of Ukraine, thereby making it impossible to trade in reproductive cells. The country has long needed this law. The Ministry of Health is supporting draft Law 6475. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u135	Thank you. I would like to invite the Ukrainian national MP Danuzu Alexander Anatoliyovich, the author of the alternative bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u136	Thank you. Colleagues, maximum scandalous bill 6475-d. Of course, I'm not asking you to support him in any way. Today the attention of the world's media is attached to this bill, including CNN is preparing great material, the BBC has contacted me, and the drafters of the bill have been associated with the Times and so on. The question? The question is, I've never seen a bill go like this. With violations of the Rules, as I pointed out, he took the picture, went into action again. This bill doesn't have a Euro-Integration Expertise, which, and about its Euro-Integration, we were told first. This bill has no conclusions either from the cospolytics or from any other committee concerned with this bill, except for two committees. The first is the National Health Committee, and the second is a committee, an anti-corruption committee, which makes it clear that this bill does not meet the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. Plus, this bill says that today we're depriving some of the auxiliary reproductive technology of heterosexual couples, and we're allowing, we're leaving this right to homosexual couples. We're opening up a market for fake marriages and a lot of other things. I don't mind, against the LGBT community, but it's not a matter of orientation, it's a question of huge money. So Project 6475-d cannot be voted on in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u137	Please, I give the floor to a member of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Wagner Victoria Alexandrovni. Please, Victoria Alexandrovna. Four minutes, because you're both the author and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u138	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the bill (registration number 6475-d) on the application of auxiliary reproductive technologies and surrogate motherhood has been finalized by the National Health Committee in accordance with the requirements of part two of article 110 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, taking into account the constructive provisions of alternative bills. The bill is designed in view of the steady increase, the use in the world, particularly in Ukraine, of DDR as an effective tool for treating infertility for the absence of national legislation. It envisages the creation of a separate first law that regulates the legal basis for the application in Ukraine of DDRs and the provision of services from surrogate motherhood, followed by amendments to the Criminal Code regarding liability in the event of a violation. Unlike alternatives, the amended bill takes into account the requirements of international law for the protection of human rights and protects the rights and legitimate interests of a child born as a result of the use of alternative maternity services. In particular, to prevent child abandonment and the risk of child trafficking, appropriate safeguards have been prescribed for these very moments. The adoption of this bill is also necessary to restore the demographic potential of Ukraine, which is constantly shrinking from the background of war. Although we had one of the lowest birth rates in the world in 2021, it was 1.1 children per woman. The 21st year predicts a catastrophic fall in fertility optimistically at 0.8. While the restoration of generations in Ukraine requires the birth of at least three children by one woman, think about it. It should also be borne in mind that a large number of women with children have gone abroad through the war and that their prospects for return are steadily declining due to fighting. Most of all, there is a brutal war that takes away most of the people who are people of reproductive age every day. And the country's reproductive potential is a factor in Ukraine's national security, no less important than the country's defence. In this context, foreign and/or non-citizens are prohibited from using surrogate motherhood services in Ukraine for 3 years after the end of the end of the term, and it is prohibited to export reproductive cells and embryos outside the customs territory of Ukraine by health facilities for this period. The bill is supported by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the National Health Service of Ukraine, the Office of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. The comments, the proposals from the NEU, from the committees, from colleagues, we're going to work on the second reading. The Committee considered the bill at its meeting on 7 April 2023 and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on the application of auxiliary reproductive technologies and surrogate motherhood (registration number 6475-d) as a result of the first reading, taking into account the requirements of part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules on the need to amend other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading. Please support the committee's proposal and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've passed the first phase of the bill report, now we're moving on to a discussion. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u140	Mr. Head, may I have a word with Mrs. Mary Ionova?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u141	Maria Mikolayovna Ionova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, the presidency! Bill 6475-d, it's really important because it refers to key constitutional value, is the preservation of the gene pool of our Ukrainian nation and is called upon to regulate precisely the legal principles in the field of reproductive technology. We're with you now, the very first speaker, he's not talking about his bill, he's talking about such general bills, and there's been a lot of, in fact, such scarecrows, manipulations and lies. And in times of war, we are obliged to create legal standards for those families. Those families who have either lost or want to have a child through assisted reproductive technology, we are obliged to grant them the right to do so. Moreover, we provide a framework for regulating this activity. So I would point out that the bill is given, it also contains positive norms, but there are a lot of prohibitions. So I would ask that we take into account the observation of both the GNEU, which is contained in the 10 pages and the medical community, simply to work out with them the standards that. Still, you can't forbid it. I'll tell you what. That's what it is about military personnel. The project foresees a prerequisite for applying the genetic link between a future child and a woman. Sadly, though, such an innovation will rob women of the ability to have children with a low variable reserve. That is, those military officers who died and preserved the sperm, they can't, those wives or husbands, apply it. The same is true of all guarantees regarding the use of biological materials by military personnel. So in the context of that goal of making a bank of materials and saving a gene pool, some bans are important. So I would ask very carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u143	Thank you. Please give the floor to National Deputy Laby Mikhail Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u144	Please pass the word to Mikhail Raducci.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u145	Mikhailo Borisovich Raducci, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u146	Thank you, colleagues. Colleagues, well, first of all, that the law will have to work on the second reading, there are no questions. There are some things that need to be worked out. But, colleagues, what's important about this bill is why it's very important to accept it in Ukraine. I think that many of the colleagues who are here in this room have read about a special operation conducted by the Ukrainian Security Service and the special services of European countries, which is codenamed "Spanish." It's when Ukrainian children born to surrogate Ukrainian mothers were sold, not paid off, not in the budget, but just sold Ukrainian children, Ukrainian embryos all over the world. The operation was called "Spanish." Now there's going to be a second series of this operation, because the clinic that got into this story is in the city of Kharkiv. But there are still many clinics in such cities as Kropivnicki, the city of Kiev, that will be very busy. So I ask you very much to support this law and to add all factions, all colleagues to the right and to prepare this law for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u147	The word is given to the national MP, Pavlovka Jurija Alexiyovich, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u148	Honorary colleagues, even though the bill is defined, all bills are defined by authors as protecting the rights of Ukrainian citizens to have a desired child. In fact, this was confirmed by the previous speaker, who was primarily focused on promoting the idea of providing Ukrainian women with the services of surrogate mothers to foreigners. Or the biggest problem for each of the proposed bills is the lack of a legal component and especially for the rights of a newborn child. In general, we can speak, regardless of what the authors claim, that the rights of the child in the bills are hardly defined. In addition, the Ministry of Social Policy’s mandate to register foreigners who want to use surrogate mothers is viewed as questionable or inappropriate enough. Unfortunately, it's not even the functions that are covered by the current legislation, such as the registration, the admission of orphans, children deprived of parental care. Only half the children orphaned during the day in Ukraine are seen by the Ministry of Social Policy. A broken database of orphans, children, deprived of parental care, and many other problems, which, unfortunately, in the case of the Minsocpolytics, are engendering their criminal inaction. So, I'm sure there's a lot of attention to this bill, and first and foremost, about protecting, securing the rights of a newborn child, which will in any case have to be worked out, or the second reading done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies, please take your seats. Take your seats. I propose to adopt a draft law on the application of auxiliary reproductive technologies and surrogate motherhood, the registration number of the 6475-d project, in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:56]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing that this bill be sent back to you for re-reading. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:45:26]] For-170. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I propose that the subject of the legislative initiative be corrected for further work. Dear colleagues, let us support, let the subject refine, and perhaps we will take a balanced approach. Please, I'm proposing Bill 6475-d to send the subject to pre-work. Please vote. [[12:46:06]] For 186 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, this is only a work in progress, we have three more to decide on. So let's start over. Bill 6475: Draft Act on Auxiliary Reproductive Technologies. I'm proposing to take it as a base. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:46:44]] For 116 The decision is not taken. I'm proposing Bill 6475 for re-reading, author one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I'm sorry. Please re-send the first reading. Please vote. [[12:47:17]] For-142 The decision is not taken. I am proposing that the subject of the legislative initiative be sent to draft Bill 6475. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:47:40]] For-144 The decision is not taken. Next bill, 6475-1. This is a draft law on the application of auxiliary reproductive technologies. It's Danuca's author, right, I understand? Wait a minute, we'll see. One second, it's us. Now, one second, I'll take the authority. No, no, it might not be Danutz. Wait a second. One second. I'm sorry, the author with the badge 1, Danuza? Danuca. Author: Danuca. 6475 with badge 1 of the authorship of the People's Deputy of Danuci. This is a draft law on the application of auxiliary reproductive technologies. I'm willing to take it as a base. Please vote. [[12:49:20]] For-74. The decision is not taken. I'll bet you I'll send you to read again. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:49:40]] For-94 The decision is not taken. I'm proposing to send the subject to pre-processing, the subject of the legislative initiative, Bill 6475-1. Please vote. [[12:50:07]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, 6475 with badge 2. Draft Law on the Use of Auxiliary Reproductive Technologies and Substitute Motherhood. Please, I'd like to make an offer. Wagner, the author is Wagner. Please vote. [[12:50:39]] For-137 The decision is not taken. I'm proposing that this bill be sent back for re-reading. People's deputies, please vote. Dear colleagues, let's support one bill, save it. [[12:51:00]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. And the final vote on this bill series. I'm proposing Bill 6475 with "2" to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:51:30]] For-154 The decision is not taken. All bills are regarded as rejected. Thank you, colleagues, let's move on. Next bill 8313. This is a draft Act amending some legislation in Ukraine on the order of granting and use of leave, as well as other issues. I would like to propose a brief consideration of this bill. Please vote. [[12:52:05]] For 169 Decision taken. Please, Galina Mikolayevna, you will report. No, it's not. Let's do two in a row, two in a row. Please register: two in, two in, two in. 8313, yes. Please give the word to Kunicki Alexander Olegovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Galina Trelyakowi.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u151	Please, Galina Mikolayevna Trelyyakowa.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u152	Thank you, Your Honor. This bill is the result of the great general work of the Committee on Social Policy and the protection of the rights of veterans by more than 15 bills submitted for leave. I'll remind the National Deputies that we have accepted only one law regarding parental and maternal leave as our kencia, giving parents the same opportunity to get a vacation. This bill covers many different kinds of vacations. At the same time, what is most important is that we are also considering a two-month leave for the military, which is demobilizing from military service. And you know that now the strategy in the Cabinet of Ministers is also being considered to create a protective service that, on a two-month vacation, will coordinate with all the state authorities where the military will need an administrative service. Ask him to support it and work with the committee for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u153	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Please, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u154	Dear Mr. Head, may I have the floor to present to Mr. Alexia Hotcharenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u155	Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u156	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, a very important bill. And we certainly need to resolve the issue of vacations. It has questions that will need to be corrected for the second reading. First of all, it's about creative vacations. Because there is a general exception to this legislation. And that's certainly wrong, they need creative vacations, it's going to have to be corrected. But it's very important that this bill already has a 60-day vacation on demobilisation -- a very important standard. And I urge the hall to be ready for the second reading, and then on the second reading, it is imperative to include in this bill the issue of increasing leave for our military personnel. The relevant bill is in the Supreme Council. He's my authorship, he's not looking. That's not right. Because today our military is exhausted. They need this support. The only thing they have today is 10 days, plus 10 days under family conditions. Not everyone gives under family circumstances. And these 10 days, that's not enough. Imagine, you've been in the trench, in the mud, in the blood, under such psychological pressure, and all you've got is a miserable 10 days. Any person who doesn't have a job in our country today has more. And those who do the main work of our nation have only 10 days. Therefore, it is imperative that you increase it to at least 30 days. Maybe we'll consider more, but 30 at least, well, of course, plus the same 10 days under family conditions. So, my friends, I'd like to support you now in the first reading, working out, protecting the interests of the military and accepting. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u157	The word is given to Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u158	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the presidency, the honourable people's deputies, I would like to begin by thanking the head of the Committee of Social Policy, thanking Parliament and faction leaders for finally getting this bill into the agenda. He was born in pain on the committee, but he found many standards that regulate vacations today, since some standards were outdated, including vacations during wartime. As my colleagues have already spoken to me here, the most important rule here is to give 60 days of rest to all the demobilized Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations that are now called defense forces. And, attention, pay from the state budget, not from the structures from which they are released. I also agree that there are standards that need to be improved. And I would like to have a working group set up for the second reading on the committee, to which we invite all the desirable national MPs, as well as your assistants, the professionals, the unions, the employers who are and are aware of this topic. This bill is expected, not by dozens, but by millions of Ukrainians, who are now involved, including during the war, who are given this social duty. Thank you for your position. I am sure that by working together we stand out for the interests of those who serve today and those who work together. We're voting in the first "yes." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this bill. Let us move on to making decisions. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the organization of the granting and use of leave, as well as other matters (registration number 8313), in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:14]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, in principle, the time we spent today in order of the day is exhausted. But we still have readings in Alejandro Sergiyovich. Ask, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, 24 parliamentary inquiries have been made for the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of these, 2 to the President, 6 to the Cabinet of Ministers, 10 to the heads of other public authorities and local authorities. So ask the President of Ukraine. The request by Sergey Rudik to the President of Ukraine for the urgent signature of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Improving the Principles of Organization and Conducting Resistance. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 54, of the Constitution and article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on a proposal for previous support for a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. I need 150 votes. Please vote. [[13:00:41]] For the 220. Request accepted. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution and article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:01:10]] For 213 The request is not addressed to the President of Ukraine. Request for a group of national deputies (Forgotten, Pusherenko and others, only 33 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of Volodymyr Primachenko the name Hero of Ukraine (death). In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote a proposal for previous support of the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:01:49]] For 236 Decision taken. Request accepted, supported. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:02:20]] For 238. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. There are no more voting requests. So under the accompaniment of your exit from the hall, we will read out requests to the authorities, the Cabinet of Ministers. Alexander Sparrow's request to the Irpine City Head for information on the use of budget funds by the Irpine City Council, as well as the provision and use of charity and humanitarian assistance directed to the needs of the Irpine City Council. Alexander Horobac to the head of the Gostomel village military administration of the Bouchán district of Kiev for information on the use of budget funds by the Gostomel village military administration, as well as on receiving, using charitable and humanitarian assistance directed to the needs of the Hostomel village military administration. Peter Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures for the approval and registration of the Methodology for the identification of damage and the extent of damage caused by the direct "loss of housing and welfare". Anton Yatzenka to the Cherka City Head for providing information and copies of documents on the size of salary, allowances, allowances, bonuses, material aid, and other payments awarded to the Secretary of the Cherka City Council, Trenkin Jury Vasilovich for 2022 - 2023 years. Anton Yatzenka to the Cherkas city head for providing information and copies of land documents at: Chevchenka Boulevard, 49, Cherkasi City, Cherkas region, Cherkas region, Cherkas region. Groups of National Deputies (Smart, Dmitry, and others) A total of 12 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the planning in the State Budget of Ukraine for 2023, for the payment of salaries, bonuses, rewards, financial incentives and other payments to military personnel and all persons concerned with the Security and Defence Force of Ukraine. Peter Pavlovsky to Kharkiv City Head about providing information on the number of apartment buildings managed by the municipal enterprises of the city of Kharkiv in need of roof repair. Alexander Kopilenko, under the temporary responsibility of the Head of State Inspectorate of Architecture and Urbanization of Ukraine, on the application of the Supreme Court’s decision of 24.06.2021 in case No. 640/20744/20 concerning the introduction into service of a house on the street of Lower Val, 27 - 29 in Kiev. Peter Pavlovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures taken to improve accessibility, quality of rural health care and additional social security for medical and pharmaceutical workers. Anton Yatzenka to the head of the Parliamentary Rural Council of the Cherka district of Umánsk for information on how to compensate property owners for the damage caused by the military aggression of the Russian Federation in the territory of the Palanski Rural United Territorial Society. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kasaya, Kabanova) to the head of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine regarding information on the amount of expenditure incurred by the Kirilian Village Council of the Zaporez Region. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kasaya, Kabanova) to the head of the Tokmatka City Military Administration of the Pologna Region of Zaporozhi district to provide information on the use of educational subsidies from the state budget of the Tokmak United Territorial Society. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kasaya, Kabanova) to the head of the Tokmatka City Military Administration of the Pologna Region of Zaporozhi district for information on the number of employees and officials in the Tokyo City Military Administration of the Zaporez Region. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kasaya, Kabanova) to the head of the Tokmak City Military Administration of the Pologov Region of Zaporozhye district for information on public procurement conducted by the Tokmak City Military Administration of the Zaporez Region. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kasaya, Kabanova) to the head of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine on information on the amount of expenditure incurred by the Tokma District Military Administration of the Zaporez Region. Groups of National Deputies (Katsuri, Roadside and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction, capital repair and reconstruction of shelters in the education facilities of the district of Suma. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head for providing information and copies of documents regarding the administration of budgetary resources for the administration of education and the humanitarian policy of the Umman City Council. Peter Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the results of the fight against corruption in the Ukrainian State Customs Office. Peter Pavlovsky to the Kharkiv City Head about providing information on the placement of advertising in Kharkiv. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for the provision of information and copies of documents on the construction, land management, municipal property and building control of the Umman City Council to citizens of the permits for the establishment of fixed temporary facilities, for the conduct of entrepreneurial activities in the territory of the Ummansk City District, between February 24, 2022 and today. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman district assembly and social support centre for information on Ukrainian military-related citizens. Thank you. The questions are complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u161	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u162	What about the MFO?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u163	Oh, you'll have an IFO. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u164	Even today is a full day for the creation of IFO, yet another IFO has been created. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation of the interfractional MPs association "Majorists for the Development of Communities". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kostuk Dmitry Sergiyovich, was elected head of this association. We want fruitful work for the benefit of the community, and so do majors. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-03-m0.u165	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the consideration of the agenda for the day is complete. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. Together to complete victory! And the glory of Ukraine!
