ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the ruling we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today we continue our plenary session. I note that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the opening of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. In the event of air anxiety, there will be a pause in the plenary session, and we all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to parliamentary tradition, we will begin our work with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Today is the 461st day of large-scale racist armed aggression against Ukraine. We thank our self-loyal advocates and protectors, who all day long heroically reflect the numerous attacks of the Russian occupying state and systematically destroy its weapons, military technology and living power. Eternal glory to all who defend the Ukrainian state. Let us pay tribute to the memory of Ukraine's soldiers and all the innocent victims of the crimes of the Russian terrorist state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please, have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague of the national deputy of Ukraine, Eugenia Vadimovich Bragar. Let us welcome our colleague, wish him good health, success, and victory as soon as possible. Welcome. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the honourable national deputies of Ukraine are invited to make a signal vote prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. Please vote. [[10:26:49]] For 177 In 177, against 5, 4, the rest did not vote. Dear colleagues, everything as usual. Once again, I appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the course of the plenary session taken in Parliament, sooner than an hour after the end of our work. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council has been given to you, so we are moving on to its consideration. And starting with the first, this is 9190, we're going to be looking at the draft decree on the annual report of the Human Rights Council of the United States of America on the status of respect for and protection of human and civil rights and freedoms in Ukraine in 2022. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 17, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 232 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, are under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to review the annual report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. The last annual report of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine was heard in the Supreme Council in 2013. The Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on 5 April 2023 (Protocol No79), reviewed the annual report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on the state of human rights and the protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine in 2022. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. Dear colleagues, I inform you that in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations on the Conciliation Council, the next order for consideration of this matter has been agreed upon. First. Report of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, up to 10 minutes, as well as an answer to questions from MP factions and groups, up to 24 minutes: one minute for questions, two minutes for answers. After that, we vote. Dear colleagues, there is no objection to this, regarding the proposals of the Conciliation Council. At that time, the Commissioner for the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Dmitri Valeriyovich Lubinetz, is invited to the rostrum for the report. Please, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u2	Good day, Your Honor, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! I personally wanted to thank the distinguished people's deputies, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, for their political will. The last time the honourable national MPs voted in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling after hearing the annual report of the Authorized Supreme Council on Human Rights, it was in 2011. In 2013, the Commissioner presented this annual report for the last time, but the honourable national deputies did not vote for it. I thank you for interrupting this shameful tradition together and thank you to the Ukrainian Parliament of the Ninth Assembly. [[Applause]] Each of you, honourable national deputies, was given an annual report in the form of a small presentation. I'll tell you right now that no government money has been hurt by this, we've done it at the expense of our international partners, we don't have to blame ourselves for spending state funds. This annual report has been prepared. for several chapters. First of all, we showed our citizens the state of affairs in connection with the full - scale aggression of the Russian Federation. Since February 24, 2022, the Russian Federation has been trying to take over the entire territory of our country, and this has automatically affected every Ukrainian family in our country, each one. The numbers, I'm sure you've seen, they're amazing. More than 8 million Ukrainian citizens have gone abroad, and 4.9 million citizens have been granted status, a different status of protection in foreign lands. More than 5 million Ukrainian citizens live in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. The dead, according to our records, are about 19,000. I would like to draw your attention, honourable national deputies, to the fact that these are the figures of December 31st, 2022, which is the time set out in the annual report under the law of Ukraine. We examined a particular issue about the incidence of sexual violence. Honorable National MPs, the lowest age of sexual violence suffered by Russian military personnel, is 4 years, the oldest age is 85 years. As for our Ukrainian children, you can see the figures. Once again, I point out that these numbers are confirmed and the numbers are only for the territory controlled by the Ukrainian government. According to our data, in Mariupola alone, more than 200 civilians, most of whom were women and children, were killed as a result of the air bombardment of the Mariupol Dramatry. I used only the numbers confirmed because this annual report will be used by international partners as an official document, so I didn't write in this annual report, I didn't assume approximate numbers, and all the figures are confirmed. Regarding damaged infrastructure. You can see that more than 3,000 destroyed educational institutions, more than a thousand 150 objects of material and cultural heritage in Ukraine, are 305 religious buildings. It is estimated that the damage caused by the Russian Federation amounts to over $600 billion. As far as Ukrainian children are concerned. We have officially established the facts of forced deportation or transfer of Ukrainian children from the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine to the territory of the Russian Federation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are legally establishing the facts, confirmed by the conduct of Russian military officers of war crimes with the signs of genocide. The forced movement of children from one ethnogroup to another is defined as genocide, and we have examined and recorded it. A separate report has been issued for children. We also noted that Ukrainian children are subjected to torture. These are notable facts, for example, in Herson. Ukrainian children are kidnapped even when they have parents in Ukraine. And all of this is done by the Russian Federation. As far as I'm concerned, my representative is in the coordination headquarters on the issue of prisoners of war. You see all this work publicly, we bring back our heroes, our heroes home, we do not only the prisoners of war, we do the civilians. And here I am asking the distinguished national MPs to contribute to the disclosure of information that, according to our data, the Russian Federation has detained more than 27,000 civilians, who are being held by Russians in a temporarily occupied territory, in fact, in captivity and in the territory of the Russian Federation. As far as international cooperation is concerned. I have personally taken part in many international measures, meetings, and will not stop there. But as the main result of my work, honourable national deputies, on August 5, 2022, one of the world’s largest ombudsmen officially expelled a representative of the Russian Federation. [[Applause]] And this was the first time that the international organization IOI, the International Ombudsman Institute, did so. Then came the Council of Europe. And this year we also have a continuation of this process, the Russians continue to rule out. It's about the social state. We notice that we have an increasing number of calls to me from internally displaced persons, unprotected population groups, children who need additional protection. All of this you could see, I very much ask to know, in the annual report. I'm not going to stop at specific numbers, I'd just like to say that during the year 2022, 42 thousand 485 phone calls were made to the Commissioner. As of today, over 40,000 of them had already contacted me in 2023. We're seeing a tremendous amount of growth, a crazy number of references to me personally. I am convinced that this is linked by the citizens of Ukraine to what we show, we are with you, that we can protect and protect the rights of our citizens. I wanted to remind you that when you voted in favour of me for this high office, I then, turning to this high rostrum, told you that to renew the confidence of Ukrainian citizens in the human rights system in Ukraine, we can only do so together – the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. During this time, I am convinced that we have shown good cooperation with you. I'm sure today is the result of our work together. And those recommendations that will become new legal status after your vote today will be implemented by the Ukrainian government, the central executive authorities, local self-government, the law enforcement sector. Thank you, distinguished national MPs. I'm convinced that we're all going to win together and we're doing everything in our place. Thank the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank the citizens of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u3	Heroic glory! Thank you, Dmitri Valeriovich. Thank you for restoring the good tradition of reports to the Supreme Council. I think it's very important not only because there is a war going on here, but because the Human Rights Commissioner is a parliamentary institution. And it seems to me that Parliament has not mistakenly appointed you to this high office. So thank you for your work. Thank you for the winning work. I think we'll hear other questions from our factions and groups. And as we agreed, the next step is a matter of factions and groups. And I'm asking the factions and groups to sign up for our honorary Supreme Council of Ukraine with human rights. Please sign up for the question. One question from factions and groups. One minute to ask, two minutes to answer. Please. Dear colleagues, please give the floor to the Ukrainian National Deputy Igor Fedorovich Molotka, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u4	The word is given to Irina the Miroslavina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u5	Irina Miroslavna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u6	Irina Konstanovic, MP for the Future. First of all, I want to thank you for the work done by the Ombudsman, Dmitri Lubinets, and the office. We are all witnesses to this enormous work. And we already see the results not only here in Ukraine, but also abroad, because your work is based on international experts and international institutions. The question I want to ask you is children. That's a key theme. Children, not only abroad, are children who are in frontal areas, are children who are in the status of displaced persons. Tell me, what is the operating system, and what are the key problems in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u7	Thank you, Irina Miroslavina. It's about the kids. According to our data, more than a million children, Ukrainian children are now abroad, including children from institutions. More than 700,000 Ukrainian children lived in a temporarily occupied territory. In fact, it is impossible to say how many of them are forcibly displaced or deported to the territory of the Russian Federation. That figure we're publicizing is about 20,000 -- roughly the verified numbers of Ukrainian children that the Russians stole, actually kidnapped and exported to RF territory. An international human rights protection system that can verify, help us bring Ukrainian children home from RF territory, does not exist, and this is a modern problem. What should we do, as a state? First of all, we need to quickly reform the deinstitutionalization of Ukrainian children. All children returning from abroad to Ukraine must return to reformed institutions. Secondly, we need to develop an algorithm for pressure on the Russian Federation so that Ukrainian children can still come back. You can see that we as a state have brought back 369 children today, but we have a lot to work on, and here we need pressure from the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u8	Thank you. Please, Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, MP group "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Ombudsman! Allow me to ask you a question that is of concern to the country today, namely, the Jaborishtina. During the days thanks to the good work of law enforcement agencies, prosecutors in Jaborovska succeeded in detaining a group of people who unfortunately traded drugs during the war. And that's more than five people, and even one of them traded ammunition and explosives, and that's during the war. And it seemed that this was good news, but our court, unfortunately, released these people. So my question to you is, is it normal that during a war, when people are still in a bad emotional state and they are being held hostage by drug dealers and the court is letting them go home? And I'm asking you, your Office of Commissioner, to take this case personally and actually comment on how drug dealers can go free at the time of entry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u10	Thank you for asking. I'll take personal control, I'll expect data from you on this situation. And speaking to all the honourable national MPs, if you have any data on the inadequacy of the decisions rendered by the Ukrainian courts, I have the authority to send monitoring visits to the judicial institutions, including us checking court hearings and monitoring them. In a disgraceful case, I think you all know what happened at Zakarpatta, when the group was rapeing a girl, ended up with me getting involved, now a new court hearing, we're giving an assessment of the actions of the judge, I'm working out a separate question about the court's inadequacy and violation of the judge's oath and sending a corresponding letter to the High Council of Justice concerning the activities of the prosecutor's representatives and lawyers. So please give us that data, we have the tools. But again, I can't do it on my own, we can do it with you. I'm completely open to all the national MPs at any time, you all know my mobile phone, you know where I am, come in, report the data, and we'll work together on a new system to change the shameful practice that we have in Ukraine. We have a lot of wrong decisions in our courts, and we need to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, the next national MP, Danuza Alexander Anatoliyovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u12	Thank you, first of all, for your work and I'd like to give you the word of Paul Suschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u13	Please, Paul Susko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u14	Congratulations, Your Honor, Dmitri Valeriyovich. I want to thank you for the office's work on the return of our prisoners of war, our protectors, and for the work that is now being done on the return of the illegally deported children. But I would like to ask you one more question. What now, what measures are being taken to return children to their parents who have been expelled abroad? These are now some 50 cases that have been eliminated for various reasons and placed on the Internet or in foster homes abroad. What steps are being taken? Because it is a very big problem and the protection of their rights by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is limited. And the question is, what is it now with children born abroad who have been denied parental protection?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u15	Thank you, Mr. Paul. And thank you for taking care of Ukrainian children all the time. We've met and worked on these issues many times. In fact, honourable national deputies, we have cases where Ukrainian children are taken abroad. We have the most disgraceful situation in Italy and Germany. Italy. After seeing the systemic problem, I met with the Italian ombudsmen, there's a slightly different system, there's several of them, they're broken in a regional way. But now every case I take to personal control, I tell them, they're interfering with this situation, and we're doing everything we can to get the child back into the territory of Ukraine and get the parents back. This is the only time we can reunite our families. Indeed, we have a problem because of the national legislation of European countries, they treat our official adoptives as illegal representatives. This applies even to grandparents. And that's the algorithm we have. We have both negative and positive examples when we go back. We're doing this, let me be clear, in this kind of semi-manual mode. The specific situation is that there are partners who support us, including financially, we buy tickets, my coworkers leave, and we bring them home. As for children who were born and who were rejected by their parents. I haven't had any cases like this before. But once again, if, yes, you have a call, please, and we will do our best to protect this situation. The only way I can think of it is through direct communication with my fellow Ombudspersons of the world and international partners who support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u16	Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u17	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Dmitry Valeriyovich, I really want to thank you for returning the respect you have for the institution you lead for the meaningful report. Thank you very much. But at the same time, I want to point out that in these months, in these days, the government, the government, unfortunately, is completely washed away, is systematically washing away the social component. Now I want to tell you that our military personnel, especially those who are captured, need your protection and attention. It is not even possible to remove the 30,000 dollars from the government because the government has a complete obstruction of payments to everyone. Please tell me, are you ready in the government to stand up for these social things because this social injustice is already across the country? And we're willing to help you with that. And the second question. Please tell me the institution that you're branching out now, are you planning to translate into regional offices?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u18	Thank you so much for asking. Thank you, Mr. Sergei. In fact, honourable national MPs, I see in the actions of some ministries that there are budget programs for social support, for example, veterans, active military personnel, but because of the bureaucratic component of the family spending process, they are slowing down. That's what I'm paying attention to, I'm getting reactions from the government, from the relevant ministries. Again, if the honourable national deputies are willing to join us, please, yes, we should do it together. As for the regional component. Dear National Deputies, when I was elected to this post, I saw that there was one major specialist in the whole area. A network of regional offices is currently being created, regional representatives are being appointed, but all of this requires additional financial support. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for supporting the increase in expenditure on our institution during the state budget vote for the current year. These expenses went solely to salaries. At present, the only thing I get from the state budget is the protected articles (communal) and the wages of professionals, all the rest, operational activities are provided by our international partners, donors. So please, I see that we need to build a regional network, but this cannot be done without the support of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u19	Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, the Platform for Life and Peace group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u20	Give the mayor a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u21	Dear Dmitri Valeriovich, I want to thank you personally, from our group, for your work, your openness, your humanity, your responsibility. And I want to wish you further perseverance in yours is not easy, but such a need for all Ukrainian citizens to do their job. The question I want to ask you is this. Today, there is not a complete solution to the problem. the assignment of pensions to persons residing in a temporarily occupied territory or in areas where hostilities are taking place. Please tell me, what steps will you take to address this issue in the Office of the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u22	Thank you for asking. Indeed, it is very painful and very difficult and challenging. We have seen that this is true of a million of our citizens who are in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and who are actually in open fighting places. I have already made a separate request to the Ukrainian government, the proposal and the recommendation was that the cost of this article be increased substantially to further protect, support our citizens. We all understand that we live in conditions of war, that the first thing the government spends money on and we as a state is the Armed Forces of Ukraine. But we are fighting for people, we must not forget that we are really fighting primarily to restore people's trust, to bring back people who live in a temporarily occupied territory. I can only promise you that I will continue this work. Please connect, I'm ready to start a working group to invite distinguished national MPs, and so again pushed back in the good sense of this word to the Ukrainian government to solve this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u24	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u25	One second, colleagues, before I pass on the word of Victoria Sumar, I'm going to ask the national MPs, your jobs have been clearly defined for convenience by the plates. Please take your seats, because one day, even indirectly, since 2011, the report has been voted on for the first time since 2013, the person assigned to us has been speaking, and we've been setting up the Bessarab Market here, so if you'll excuse me. Please take your seats. Everybody take your seats. Please, Mrs. Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Speaker, I am truly grateful for this observation. Because, colleagues, I honestly don't understand if the authorized one of us is talking to you right now about the torture of Ukrainian children, and here's the bazaar, and there's probably something wrong with all of us. Let's listen a little bit, because the bigger problem than we are now discussing about Ukrainians, 8 million of whom are abroad, and how to return them, is unlikely to be in Ukraine today. I have two questions for you, Mr. Lubinets. I, for one, thank you for this report, it's good that it sounds here right now. The first is captured civilians. We understand about exchange with the military, but we know that civilians in captivity are also extremely large, and that's the problem since the 14th year. We remember the same Colchenka and the Sun, who were civilians, today they are actually fighting on the front. What is the civil exchange system today? And the second question about the internal situation with human rights. I cannot help but ask now how you appreciate the situation with freedom of speech and.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u27	Thank you. Civilian. According to my report, more than 27,000 civilians were detained by Russians, Russian military personnel in Ukraine’s temporarily occupied territory. It's a crazy number of our citizens. The Russians, in my opinion, do it on two terms. First. They want to increase the exchange fund, the so-called exchange bank. And the second. They want the relatives of the civilian hostages to protest with posters, to cover the roads. We're looking at the fact that the Russian-language telegrams are constantly about the work of Ukrainian citizens going out, doing everything they can to make it impossible for the normal, peaceful functioning of the government authorities in Ukraine. Yeah, it's an internal job that a Russian aggressor does inside of us. What am I doing now? First. I took the initiative to start a separate course where we should raise these questions. We have the first positive step on the part of Turkey, the Turkish Ombudsman, who has initiated what may be the creation of a platform of the humanitarian corridor, where we will not only raise questions about civilian hostages, but also take concrete steps to bring them home. We can't even check the holding conditions for the time being. The International Committee of the Red Cross does not operate in the territory of the Russian Federation, in a temporarily occupied territory. The system, the international human rights system doesn't exist, it's fiction. Russia has shown everyone that this is just paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u28	Thank you. Please, Burmich Anatoly Petrovich, MP's "Resurrection of Ukraine", please. Dear colleagues, before that. This is going to be the final question and the final answer. I will ask the National Deputies to take their seats, then we will vote on the report of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And then I'm going to make one suggestion to change the order of the day a little bit, because Sergey Shaptala is here to go straight to the question on which he's reporting. But please, Anatoly Petrovich Burmich, and I'm asking the national deputies to take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u29	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Dmitre Valeriovich, I was approached by the wife of one of Austali's supporters, who is now in captivity, and she doesn't know his fate, she's repeatedly addressed, she says, "I've been given it for exchange, but no one has answered it." This is Senior Lieutenant Vasiliev Valeriy Igorovich of the 109th United Territorial Defense. He's chronically ill, he has chronic thyroid disease, he needs constant care because he can, you know, you know. Please take this matter under control, find out the fate of this person, and see if you can exchange it, or if there is any other way for a person to return home. Thank you very much. Vasilyev Valeriy Igorovich, Senior Lieutenant.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues, I'll be frank with you. The first question that I personally started to do after my election was to bring our heroes and heroes home. I can't divulge the details, I think everyone has seen that the state-created body is the Coordination Headquarters for the conduct of prisoners of war. We've shown systemic work. We're like a big team dealing with these issues, there's an exchange every month, it's not easy communication with that side, I'll say, it's constantly changing conditions, they're constantly breaking. But while I'm in this position, we've started a few new approaches that have shown positive results. That's all I can say. I'll take this situation under control. But the only reason we haven't returned all the prisoners of war, the civilian hostages, is because of the position of the Russian side. We're constantly taking the initiative to make exchanges for everyone. In my opinion, we did everything we could to make it happen. So thank you for asking. This is the question of the return of prisoners of war, civilian hostages, and I deal with them every day as part of a large team. And believe me, I'm doing everything I can to get everyone home. And thank you, we have a contribution, including from the distinguished national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u31	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Valeriovich. Let's thank you again, take your place. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, the annual report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights has been completed. Let's move on to making a decision. The National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Main Committee, are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a corresponding draft Decision (Registration No. 9190), which is proposed to be adopted as a result of the annual report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights. In accordance with paragraph 17 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 232 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation, article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, I put to the vote the entire draft Ordinance (registration number 9190) on the annual report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on the state of human rights and the protection of human rights and freedoms in 2022. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:03:50]] For 318 Decision taken. Thank you again, Dmitri Valeriovich, thank you for your work. Dear colleagues, we agreed on a bill under number 9281 at the Conciliation Council, and we will proceed as soon as the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Sergey Alexanderovich Shaptala, appears. Let's say hello to Sergei Alexanderovich. [[Applause]] Yes, Sergey Alexanderovich, just a second, I'll do a few more procedural procedures. Dear colleagues, we are going to consider Bill 9281, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. At the Conciliation Council, we agreed to hear only the submission of this bill by the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Saptali Sergio Alexandrovich, and then to vote on the basis and generally without discussion of this bill. But before that, I'll ask everyone to take their seats. Dear colleagues, finish this picture and do your job. I propose to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (the registration number of Bill 9281). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:05:45]] For 310 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:06:06]] For 278 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Sergey Alexanderovich Shaptalu. Please, Sergey Alexanderovich, two minutes of your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all! In view of the brutal aggression of the Russian Federation and the efforts of the enemy to destroy our nation, the Ukrainian army needs to improve the process of creating a mobilization resource in order to effectively confront the enemy. On the basis of the foregoing, there is a need to reduce the age of those who are eligible for recruitment from 27 to 25 years of age. The number of such conscripts in the military account for today is 140,000. We already had a similar standard in law by 2016, but with the rise of the age of conscription, the upper limit was increased to 27 years. The changes that are being proposed will allow us, first of all, to increase the number of mobilization resources that, by the age of health, will meet the needs of the defence forces; to adjust the issue of mobilising human resources as a component of the military reserve, of human resources; and to strengthen the security of our state. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u33	Thank you, Sergey Alexanderovich. We agreed without discussion, we're voting now. I put two suggestions: first on the basis, then, if she does, I put it all together. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (the registration number of Bill 9281). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:08:36]] For 308. Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (registration number 9281). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:09:09]] For 304 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, Sergey Alexanderovich. Victory for us!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u34	Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u35	Heroic glory! [[Applause]] We're working on it, dear fellows. And then we're going to have three bills that are Euro-integration. We only put them in the agenda and shorten the deadlines for introducing alternative bills. But we agreed first, with discussion, and two others without discussion. So we start with Bill 9322 and an alternative to Bill 9322 with badge 1. This is a draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to clarify the provisions on competitive selection of candidates for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I'm proposing to include these bills in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:10:26]] For 282 Decision taken. I'm making an offer. Ah, it's going through a shorter procedure. So let's write it down: two for, two for, two for, against, respectable colleagues. Please give the floor to the national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u36	Please give Jurchino Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u37	Ruššin - Jurščin. Please excuse Jurczin Jaroslav Ivanovich, Jaroslav Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u38	Jurchisin Jaroslav, Voice faction. It's very good that we're going to work to bring the selection of the judges of the Constitutional Court to the recommendations we've received from the Venice Commission. Let me remind you that this is a basic, one of the basic requirements of our acquisition, the beginning of a membership procedure. At the same time, I call for a profile committee to be included in the recommendation of the Venice Commission and to step up, to find a mechanism to include in the procedure for selecting our independent experts from the public environment, there is such a proposal, and as an option it is proposed by the Venice Commission, and to make the procedure as transparent as possible, including to clearly announce the candidate ratings so that we can understand who gets more support from independent experts, and who gets smaller and who, in fact, of those institutions that are designated, is oriented towards better indicators, and who decides to find the "cheer horses" of Princesyev. In principle, we welcome the start of our work and will be involved in improvement. We hope that we will be able to carry out quickly and implement everything that we have voluntarily taken on as we negotiate with the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u39	Please. Thank you. Vitrowicz Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u40	Please give Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u41	Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u42	It's time to make amends, colleagues. When the Constitutional Court Act was voted on, "European Solidarity" insisted on our amendment that the Council of Experts should be composed of representatives of foreign experts, as is the formation of an anti-corruption higher court, in order to have high trust and responsibility for it. We haven't heard, we haven't voted, we've got a devastating response from the Venice Commission, and we're correcting the mistakes now. Moreover, European Solidarity has registered Bill 8302 on the formation of the Advisory Council of Experts. What? The names of the authors are incorrect, not the faction that filed the bill. And the leadership of the Supreme Council, along with the majority, does not bring this bill into the agenda. Our demand is now to put Bill 8302 to the vote in the agenda and so, along with the bill 9322 under consideration, send it to the expert opinion of the Venice Commission. Next. We have the right to consider this bill, which we have now put into the agenda, not in a week, not when the Supreme Council of Ukraine wants it, but only when we get the conclusion of the Venice Commission, so that it doesn't be the same as it is now, when we correct the mistakes, when the Venice Commission urges Ukraine every day for having voted one -- to create a bank-dependent Constitutional Court that will be the first call from there, you know, deputy heads of the Office to perform all the challenges of the Bank's. It's unacceptable. We ask that the daily bill 8302 on the creation of an independent Advisory Council of Experts, a strong Advisory Council of Experts, where international experts will be sent to the Venice Commission and then to the Venice Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u43	The word is given to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko, a faction. What does that mean? Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u44	Dear friends, you know I'm not a fan of active power, so what I'm going to say, I'm going to ask you: draw your attention to this. What is this law about? We have the constitutional authority of the President of Ukraine, the assembly of judges and parliament to appoint a third of the composition of the Constitutional Court. It is the absolutely sovereign right of the country to have a constitutional court appointed under our Constitution. What is this law about? This law that we have passed with you in the previous law, without us, is certainly a decision that is created by such an Advisory Council of Experts, where three people will be from the President, one from the Congress of Judges and the Parliament, and three from international experts. And here three to three, it was necessary for the President, the Parliament, and the assembly of judges to be counseled on who to elect as constitutional judges. This was not enough. And now this law will make three people from the President, the Parliament and the Assembly of Judges, and four from the international community. And this counseling board will determine who to appoint to the President, who to meet judges, and who to Parliament. I want to ask you, are we a country that hasn't happened? Are we unable to appoint constitutional judges? Are we, today, going to be our sovereignty, whatever the authority is today, to exchange that the Constitutional Court will not only act in the interests of Ukraine but act in the interests of the international community? Dear friends, either we support the sovereignty of Ukraine, or we believe in the Constitution of Ukraine, or we have the right to our Constitutional Court, or we vote for it. We're not going to vote for this and we're going in.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, then, the Buzansky Maxim Arkadyovich, I understand, is passing on to Maslov, right, Maxime Arkadyovich? Thank you. Thank you. Maslov, please, Dennis Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, let's correct some myths first. What the representative of the Fatherland faction said is not in this bill of four internationals and three national experts, three nationals and three internationals. And this is our principle of equal treatment for these experts in the bill of national and international. Myth Two. When they say that we did something wrong. My colleagues, I remind you, we voted with you in December on a bill that was based on the first version of the recommendations of the Venice Commission. After our vote, the Venice Commission made further recommendations to us regarding the improvement of the bill. And now you and I are making further recommendations to the Venice Commission. Why is this necessary? Because the European Commission's first recommendation on our status as candidates is the adoption of the selection of the judges of the Constitutional Court. We follow this recommendation, six others, and then we open the way to opening the process of negotiations for accession to the European Union. Thank you, colleagues. And I am asking you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are. Julia Volodymyrna, huh? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, look. Denise Vejacheslavovich, the Rules say, including the name of the faction, you have no right to mention. Well, one minute is Julia Volodymyrna, everything's fair. But I'm going to ask all the reporters to refrain from any individualization and personality of the subjects of the statement. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, in no country that respects itself, have such arrangements for the formation of the Constitutional Court. We are a sovereign country. Yes, we are certainly going to Europe, but no European country has such order. Please tell me, why are we talking about being unable to appoint our Constitutional Court? This means that further, if we are to challenge in the Constitutional Court laws that may contradict the national interests of Ukraine and the Constitution, there may be in the Constitutional Court a dominant position, not the national interest of Ukraine, but the interests of anyone who influences this process from the outside. Remember, every country in the world has and advocates its own interests. And that's why the Constitutional Court is exactly the body that is obliged to hold.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Please be busy. Oh, one more minute? Mom is one minute, and then we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that all organs really need to be reformed. If the decision on reform and creation is already being made, regarding the selection of candidates for the judges of the Constitutional Court, I would like to point out the simple truth. As a reporter, he told us that there is a principle of his position, but three internationalists and three members of our competitive commission. And if there are three, three, against, what will be the decision of eternity? We'll support the first reading. But for the second reading, it is necessary to make such criteria so that three — yes, three — do not oppose the absence of a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u51	Thank you. Since the procedure, yeah, who? Heratchenko is from procedure and after that. God, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u52	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich and colleagues, first of all, we are now voting for a reduction in terms, no first reading. It's just for information. Second information. Let's stop attacking and making decisions without taking into account the thoughts of our international partners who are now supporting us on all fronts. So what I'd like to say is that when there's first reading, "European solidarity" will only vote after we get the conclusion of the Venice Commission and we'll see how it appreciated this bill. As for the procedure, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I ask you very much to put the bill 8203 into the agenda after we vote on the terms, the proposal for European Solidarity. 8302, excuse me, 8302. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u53	Thank you. For the future, I'd still like to start with the procedure. Well, we're honest people, we don't need those halftons in the Supreme Council, really. Therefore, my fellow Members, you are absolutely right to say that we are not voting in favour of the first reading, we have voted in favour of the inclusion in the agenda, but we are now voting in favour of defining the bill as urgent and shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills by half on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to clarify the provisions on competitive selection of candidates for office of the Constitutional Court (registration No. 9322). Ready to vote? I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[11:23:40]] For 266 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please, I will now make a proposal for "European Solidarity" to include their bill, be sure. I propose to include in the agenda Bill 8302 by Heratchenko. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[11:24:28]] For-99 The decision is not taken. Well, as was the Conciliation Council, my friends. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agreed without discussion, immediately after two other bills. Bill 9330, is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the activities of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:25:07]] For-286 Decision taken. I propose to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills by half on Bill 9330. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:25:33]] For 242 Decision taken. The next bill, 9332, was agreed without discussion. This is a draft of the Act amending Chapter XI of the Act on Education, the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Education Act, which deals with specific issues of educational activity in the context of the state of war. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:26:10]] For 302 Decision taken. I propose to define the bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills by half, which applies to Bill 9332. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:26:40]] For 285 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next, we have a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry (9264). We agreed, two minutes for the EC and we're voting. That's why I'm announcing the question. Draft Decision on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible fraud and other illegal activities in the field of financial services and financial services markets through information, electronic communications, information and communication systems and electronic communications networks (Registration No. 9264). I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[11:27:38]] For 263 Decision taken. Please, two minutes, "European Solidarity" and we're voting. Who, Arthur Volodymyrovich? Ivanna Orestovna, please Klimpush-Cincadze. Dear colleagues, don't break up, it's only two minutes, and then we vote not to have a runner in this room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you what temporary commissions are, what temporary special commissions are. We created this tool as a tool to use the opposition. Instead, what do we see? We see that most abuse the creation of these tools in order to replace these committees with committees. Colleagues, we need to stop destroying the remains of state structures, the state institutions that you are actively engaged in by creating these pseudo-temporary commissions of inquiry. We see that this room does not allow for the position of the majority, it does not allow any initiative to be considered from the opposition even when these initiatives are much more sophisticated, they are much better suited to the needs of society, or they are stolen under new names, but most of them are registered, and then the entire room is supported. It's a disgraceful practice. We're yelling out of all the bangs that we're saying we're going to the European Union. So I wanted us to change our behavior and actually move to the European Union and to the dream that Ukrainian society is choosing today. So we won't vote for another pseudo-temporary formation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, we've finished our discussions, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a proposal, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible fraud and other illegal activities in the field of financial services and financial services markets, which are carried out using information, electronic communications, information and communication systems and electronic communications networks (Registration No. 9264). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:30:38]] For 276 Decision taken. Next. Let's see the factions. Next, 9327. This is a draft regulation on the report of the Provisional Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible violations of Ukrainian legislation by officials of the Bureau of Economic Security of Ukraine, the authorities of the State and other public authorities that exercise authority in the field of economic security, which could have led to a reduction in revenues to state and local budgets in six months of activity. We agreed without discussion, so I immediately make an offer to accept it as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, you want two minutes then? Well, two minutes of "ES" and then we vote. Please. Which one of you will it be, dear fellows, who? Eugene, please. Dear colleagues, don't break up, we'll vote in two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, it's strange, but I actually thought that this report would be discussed by all the factions. Because the circumstances that have arisen for the creation of this commission are recorded in this report. There was information on the systematic violations of Ukrainian legislation by BEB officials, the existence of schemes for illegal exports of grains, information on non-payment of taxes by gambling operators and abuse of transfers to the ARM administration. Listen, I've read the report very carefully, well, in fact, except that these questions have been outlined, nothing more. Please tell me, why didn't the TSC put a dot in six months about the existence and violation of the grain corridor? Why, Commissioner, during this period of time, are all the abuses, 320 companies that have illegally exported products and have a substantial return to Ukraine, and we have a significant lack of budget, everything is dead? Who doesn't let the commission move on? That is why such committees should be led by opposition, as you used to call it. This is our tool, not to pick up the subject and then jump off it. Nothing happens, the grain corridor as narrow as it was for the chosen ones, remains as there was no transparency and openness here, and remains. So please tell us that we will continue to produce and receive their reports and continue their activities for an indefinite period of time? Why are we doing this? Let's take one question, bring it to a logical conclusion, and then cover other questions. You have all the questions to be considered on the committee. I don't want committee powers to be passed on to such TSCs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, yes, we go to the vote. But I just might have missed something. The chairman of this temporary commission of inquiry is Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. I don't see his application to go into majority. I'm sorry, maybe I missed something. Dear colleagues, I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible violations of Ukrainian legislation by officials of the Bureau of Economic Security of Ukraine, the authorities of the State and other public authorities that exercise authority in the field of economic security, which could have led to a reduction in revenues to state and local budgets in six months of activity (registration No. 9327). Ready to vote? I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[11:34:47]] For 266 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, next bill. I'll just let you know. Ladies and gentlemen, I have received a letter from the leaders of all the parliamentary factions and groups on the need for immediate review of the draft Law, registration number 9342, amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on specific issues related to the conduct of military service during the course of the state of war and on the adoption of the decision ad hoc provided for in article 50 of the Supreme Council Rules. The need for urgent consideration was also noted at the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups. Therefore, it is suggested that we move on to making decisions. I am voting on the proposal for a day-to-day session of draft laws: registration number 9342 on amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on specific issues related to the conduct of military service in the course of the state of war, as well as the alternative to it 9342-1. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:36:03]] For 308. Decision taken. I make a proposal regarding draft laws, registration number 9342, 9342-1: amending certain Ukrainian legislation on specific issues related to the conduct of military service during the course of the war. I would like to vote on the ad hoc decision to identify the bills as urgent, shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of the consideration of the issue and consider them at the meeting today. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:36:46]] For 316 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we also agreed to consider this issue by means of a reduced procedure with a three-minute speech to all representatives of the MP factions and groups. Because, I remind you, there was a working group that I think worked very well, and the result is the common position of Parliament. So I'm voting on a motion to discuss the law with a reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:37:25]] For 274 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. Who will be the authors – Arahami or Honcharenko? Goncharenko. Then the Bill 9342 report is given by one of the coauthors of Hončarenko Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear friends! Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I want to show you what a real example of our work together is when we got together and we all worked together, and we found decisions that allow us to step in with our military personnel at last. That's very right. Of course, this bill lacks many things and will have to continue to work on both payments and on many other things. But there are very important things in this bill. The first and the main are vacations. Today our heroes have no real vacation. What is ten days? I was driving yesterday, from Donbas, and I was on my way back from Kramatorsk-Kyiv. I've got a guy coming with me from the Zakartat district, he says, "My day is on the way, my day's on the way, my day's on the way, my day's on the way, my day's on the way, my day's on the way." Seven days of vacation per year, one year at a time! Well, it's people being bullied. It's a very complicated, bloody job, but it's got the smallest vacation in our country. These people are certainly steel, but even metal can get tired. So we need to take a step forward. I totally supported and passed a bill that envisions 30 days off plus 10 under family conditions, instead of 10 plus 10, as today. I'm very glad that we did it in a compromise bill where all the factions together, all the factions, should be, together we have to protect our military. Therefore, the issue of vacations is very important. There's a lot of support for classmates, I'm sure I'll say again, more needs to be done, but we're finally taking a big step forward. But I urge you not to stop at this, move on, resolve the following issues of military personnel, which are very many, because it's not just a vacation, but it's a real powerful step. I call on all of you to support this, to vote on this issue immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u59	Thank you. Alexi, Alexi. It is famous for the report of Bill 9342-1 to the National MP of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovitch Razumkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u60	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, it was the "Smart Politics" team that raised the question of the return of 30,000 to our defenders. I thank all those in this room who voted for it and for the amendment and for the law. But we did it, but the law is blocked by a decree that everyone knows about. What happened now? After that, we weren't even included in this task force, they just didn't, and today I understand why. Because if you look at the statements that were made in the hall about 150, 170, 180 billion dollars, someone was talking about a trillion. Do you know what is written in the explanatory note to this bill? He doesn't need any extra money. So either everyone was lying, saying there's no money for the army, or again, like a year ago when the 23rd year budget was adopted, the government will quietly go into the forest with money for the military. It's a lie. You can't do that. You can't put that in the government, or they'll go out again in two days and they'll say, "The military asked us to take everything from them and the weapons." Let's make a normal tariff grid for the second reading. I really agree, we need to settle these issues, but so that those who deserve it get the money. One more question. You and I talk a lot about getting out of the state of the people who got hurt, so in this bill you don't add, you take away, because when you go out of state, you get two months of getting what you get on the front, like 100,000, and then 800. This bill says so, and I think it's a mistake that's going to have to be corrected, only 6,000 for the full time out of state. So in three months, she's going to get 6,000 800. Let's not rush or accept at the last minute, but first, let's turn back, lift the amendment, the order of the Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I would like to invite the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence, Alexander Mikhailovich Zavetnevich. Please, Alexander Mikhailovich. Then all the factions and groups of three minutes and then we vote. In three minutes, maybe less. Zavodnevich, please, Alexander Mikhailovich. What is the position of the committee on these bills, briefly, if possible. You can even get to the center of this, if you don't mind, everyone wants to see you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, there were committee meetings, both drafts were considered, and I read the committee's decision. As a result of the legislative discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that bills should be included in the agenda of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The other one. In accordance with article 101 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, define project 9342 as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills. Third. As a result of the first reading of the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts on specific issues related to the conduct of military service during the war (registration No. 9342), submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy David Arahama and other Ukrainian national deputies, on the basis of and in general. Four. Reject the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on specific matters of legal protection of military personnel (registration No. 9342-1), submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Dmitr Razumkov and other Ukrainian national deputies. Fifth. Involve the committee in preparing the text of the adopted law for the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to undertake, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its technical and legal work. Period. Colleagues, please support the basic bill, as colleagues have said, has been written by many of our colleagues, a huge working group, a huge number of authors, so please support the basic bill 9342. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please proceed to the presentations of the representatives of the MP factions and groups, so please sign them up. Three minutes from each faction and group and then we go to the vote. Please give the word to Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna, the faction of the political party "The Voice."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Roman Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u65	Please, Roman Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u66	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear colleagues, we remember where these questions began when we accused the Supreme Council of taking 30,000 into the military. And then a decision was made, and here we all voted with you to get these 30,000 back. But remember, there was a decision that blocked it, and now a working group was set up to work on grading, how these costs would be paid. What do we have in this bill now? There are positive things that show that we are working in the right direction. First of all, it really needs to raise the wages of our wounded, the ones that are now getting 800 dollars. But the question is, how much to raise? Here's the question. I have a friend who's limitedly fit and he doesn't have an eye, that's what happened in the war, but he's getting that 800 bucks right now. And if we add another 6,000 to them, that question won't solve it. We have to keep going so these guys can raise wages. This law limits them, putting them in specific amounts. Similarly, the questions of the instructors who are now at war, who have to make the money they need to provide, are not solved. The question of the return of 30,000 is not solved at all. We're just taking the standard that's in Cabmine right now and making it legal. It's wrong, it's a lie. We have to go out and tell the military we don't have the money to pay you back, and it's not a lie. And what we're doing right now is cheating. So we must now vote, make a decision, but by no means vote these in general. There are a lot of issues that we have to solve, there are questions about these 30,000 and the construction of cities for the military. There's a lot to talk about the lack of funds, the loss of military casualties, but that's the main thing. And first of all, when we vote on this, they're going to talk about the Supreme Council not returning the money to the military, but taking it back, and we're giving this rule that we're leaving behind, and everything is going to be government. Therefore, I urge the general public not to vote and, above all, to support our military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, then National Deputy Lis. That's what I understand, Arahama David Georgievich, isn't it? Please, David.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u68	Colleagues, the bill is actually the result of the work of financial experts from the defence forces, primarily their work, and ours as deputies who were accompanying this process. What did we do? We realized that the students and the stringers today actually get less than a thousand bracelets, which is completely unfair because they actually do the same things as the military, except for the first line and the second line. We fixed it. Then we followed the situation of the wounded. There are cases where the injured person is injured, he's in the hospital, he gets 100,000 all the time until the V.V.C. passes. If the V.V.C.A. finds him temporarily unfit or limitedly fit for military service, he's actually out of commission and he's got 700 or 800 bracelets, which is completely unfair at all. We have done so to correct at least partially, taking into account the funds we had to correct the situation. That's not fair. Then there is the question of vacations. On military vacations, they need enough time to get some rest and then get back to the task of fighting, and we've made it right. That's not all. We've made this working group work on a permanent basis, and we're going to make more decisions that improve the situation, along with our military personnel. Please support this bill so that we can send a positive signal to the military, so that they can see that the Supreme Council is constantly working on these issues, and we will continue to work on other decisions and legislative initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u69	The word is given to Bakuña Paul Andriyovich, a group called "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u70	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, dear Ukrainian people! Of course, this difficult war, which has been going on for more than nine years, is a war waged by the Kremlin, the racist authorities against Ukraine, a war that they thought would turn into a complete genocide of the Ukrainian people, total destruction. However, the Kremlin’s plans for the destruction of the Ukrainian people failed, failed, and would never again succeed. And all of this thanks to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which have become extremely powerful over the past nine years, have become extremely capable, have become the bravest in the world, and have probably become the most experienced in the world. That is why we thank our supporters for their courage. And actually this bill on first steps on justice, because those people on the front, they have a very intense sense of justice. And actually this bill that the working group has made is the first step towards this justice, because these people deserve the greatest thanks and the highest praise that protects us from the occupying, from the Kremlin's racist regime. And these fundamental, positive things already laid down in this bill are just the first steps the Ukrainian Parliament has to take for justice, for just recognition of the Ukrainian defender. And in fact, this vacation of more than a month is very important for them to see their families and to be able to recover, and it's also laid down that young people, recruits, don't go to the front right now, but have to go through at least a month of education, it's very important, and the fact that there's a reward added to the midwives and the students, it's important that those who learn, and the reward added to those who teach, the instructors, it's also important. So I would like to believe that such steps will continue to be taken by the Ukrainian Parliament in faith in our Ukrainian Armed Forces, with faith in victory. Praise the Armed Forces! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u71	Hero Slava! Please go on, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, "Platform for Life and Peace."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, we support the basic bill prepared by the working group. Unfortunately, we must note that a number of decisions that have not been fully worked out have led to social tensions, especially among the military, to dissatisfaction, dissatisfaction and even some mistrust in the authorities of the state. The fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the highest authority, has assumed responsibility through the parliamentary work tool, through the working group's tool to find a solution, how to get out of this situation, how to achieve justice in the military's financial security, so as not to cause concern or misunderstanding, who for what, and how, I think, deserves support and continuation of this work. Yes, this bill solves the primary problems, including the provision of money for terminators, and the promotion of scholarship students, leave-related issues, determines that the payment of 30 and 100,000 dollars is further determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. But between the first and the second readings, no doubt it will have to be achieved and determined, and what are these criteria, the clear criteria for each particular military officer, the military unit, as is the sum. Because today’s order is to some extent unfair, it is very often caused by disagreements by specific military personnel or departments. Undoubtedly, there are still many tasks facing the working group even after the adoption of the law as a whole. Because I think it's necessary to review the budget, the state budget, to increase the security and the units, and the technology and other equipment needed, the issue of supporting the Ukrainian defence industry, the issue of providing a soldier for every soldier as a minimum to have a night vision device. Each one, not one, is delivered by a volunteer to a unit of five or one. And, no doubt, there are many such questions, many tasks facing the Supreme. So I encourage you to support in the first reading, to join in fast work, and to prepare for the second reading to relieve stress. We're ready for this job.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u73	Please, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u74	Stephen Bandera said, "We win when our ideas win." The fundamental position of European Solidarity is everything for the Ukrainian Armed Forces all ten years of this war. So it is important for us today that the session hall finally hear this. They gave up everything secondary, and all the funds were directed towards supporting the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Indeed, it is important that the commission, this work group, is created and worked constructively. And the bill that we're looking at today has four key blocks. The first is payout, really. We're going to increase the payouts for the students, we're going to increase the payouts for the nurses, we're going to answer for the wounded, and we're going to return 30,000 payments. When colleagues say there is no tariff network here, it's really the government's job to develop a tariff network. And it's a government, sorry, it didn't take that funding. So in fact, the government has to simply reverse what was not the Supreme Council of Ukraine eliminated. First. Second, it's very important. We have to invest in our soldier not only in finance, but we have to teach him and arm him to reduce the number of casualties and injuries. And this bill sets out the idea and the initiative "European Solidarity" on mandatory training, compulsory pre-departure training, especially when it comes to the forces of terror. We need to correct our common mistake when we adopted the Law on Terror rather than answer how to teach a soldier. And that's what this is all about. And that's why we're calling for this bill to be adopted in the first and second readings. Third, it's very important -- really, vacation. Because soldiers today are exhausted and have the right to rest. And the key. This bill provides the answer to today’s payback. Therefore, it is vital that we vote on the basis as a whole. When it's said in the hall that we don't have enough teacher positions today, that's right, and that's why the task force is going to keep working. I'm sorry, we have to return the "hour of questions to the government" in order to have the Minister of Defense, the Minister of Veterans sitting here every day, we have a country of veterans today, and there is no veteran politics, and there is no permanent dialogue with Parliament to answer these questions. And, excuse me, when asked where to take the money, yes, "European solidarity" has repeatedly answered where to take the money: take it out of the marathon, take it out of all the corruption articles, starting with the so-called road construction, which we see with what corruption continues at the time of a full-scale invasion, and end with your very promises that from the game business we will have billions and billions. Where are they? That we're going to have billions of dollars from customs. Where are they? Stop this smuggling that is still going on. And actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u75	Please, Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich. Anna Constantine's speedboat. Yeah, do I get it right? Please, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, the MP's Party for the Future unquestionably supports this bill. In fact, it's just the beginning of the work of our working group that was created, and I think it's compromised today. Of course, a lot of issues still need to be resolved, and with the work of the working group, we have identified a very large range of issues that need to be addressed by the Supreme Council, which need to be closed. I think that as we continue to work, we will undoubtedly quickly resolve them. Maybe there'll be new bills, maybe we'll get some other bills in place, but this bill is as big as it is, it solves a number of issues that are problematic today. Many colleagues spoke. Yeah, it's actually vacations, for today's 30 calendar days for boys -- it's just, well, as a gift, because today they can go for 10 days at most, and that's with big, very big problems. The same is true of the fees for classmates and termites. It's also an important question to at least promote the military profession in some way. Similarly, we do not leave our soldiers after the hospital; we increase their payments for the period when they are in charge. That's important, too. Because today, those in charge receive between 500 and 700 dollars. We're increasing it to 6,000 500 to 6,000 700. Yes, really, it doesn't solve the question, but it's a step towards meeting. And I think that the Ministry of Finance, along with the deputies, along with the entire defence corps, will find a solution, and in the following bills or we will work on the second reading, as soon as possible, we will expand the circle of issues, we will solve the questions of instructors, we will solve other issues that are now in the military. And for today, I ask everyone to support and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Zimbaluk Mikhailovich. All the factions have spoken? Then we go to the vote. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. And please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u78	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, I join in thanking the members of the working group, who represented all factions and groups, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Defence and all security forces, the defence sector. Because it was very principled, as for me, sometimes hard but well-founded discussion as to how to be, and in general who took these 30,000. And we've solved almost, I emphasize, almost all of the problems that have arisen as a result of both the discussions and the reports from the defence forces. We have indeed resolved the issues of the protagonists, who after February 24, last year, none of them have been demolished by law. We decided that they're not going to get 700, they're going to get 400 dollars, but they're going to get a minimum wage. We have decided on the questions of students, listeners, and those undergoing retraining. This bill prohibits sending zero military personnel who have just been mobilized and have not been trained. We clearly indicate how they should be trained and where they should go. We're setting up this bill, according to the military -- this is their proposal -- for social justice in terms of extra cash or reward. And this should be their position, and the Supreme Council approves these norms. Here David Arahami said faithfully, and it was a suggestion made by the members of the working group that this working group, sorry for the tautology, would continue its work because life was challenging. And as a result of the adoption of one bill, we're not able to approve all that's bothering the military today, and we've talked about this at a working group meeting, and those who are already demobilized, we have to take care of those who have been injured, how they will continue to be rehabilitated, and socialized. This is a task and a committee of social policy, and there are also a number of bills. It is unfortunate that not everyone supports the idea of approving this bill in the first reading, in the second and in general. But then let's take this step first, and in the near future we'll work it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will conclude the discussion of these bills. We'll do it in turn. First offer, I put it. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Thank you. I appreciate that, Mikola Mikolayovich. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on specific issues related to military service during the war (register No. 9342). Ready to vote? I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[12:05:49]] For 333 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one second. I just have to ask, this bill was the result of compromise and the result of the complex but very winning work of the whole group. There were several suggestions to vote, including in general. But I want to ask because you know that in general we only vote when there's no objection, who's against it? Dmitri Aleksandrovitch v. The Voice faction v. Who else? Friends, then I have no right to put him on. But I'm putting forward a proposal then to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading so that we can vote on it at the next session. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline and the amendments to prepare for the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:07:02]] For 327 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Then it's me. Please, Irina Volodymyrna is procedure, Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u80	Thank you. So I want to point out that "European solidarity" always adheres to our agreements as a result of the severe compromise on the Conciliation Council. Indeed, the idea was that this bill should be accepted as a basis and in general not to happen, as Moscow says, the best is the enemy of good, the second reading. I am very sorry that we did not correct this mistake in the session room today. I'm going to remind you that Mr. Tsabbal's ruling, and now this decision is not to vote on the bill as a basis and in general, it's the order of the Tsabal number two, you know, it stays in the room. Let's put it to a vote now and figure out what to do with it, because in fact the military asks every day, they ask, and what about our payments, and what about our vacations, and what about our wounded and what? They die every day, and we're here with you, you know, pulling the cat by the tail. It's a very wrong decision, and I think there are topics that we have to get to. I mentioned the name, I didn't mention the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, with. Dear colleagues, look, let's just get out of the procedure, okay? Because when we start to clarify some internal things instead of procedure, but I also want to say that I probably don't often, but I agree with Irina Volodymyrna that if we've reached some agreement, we have to keep it in the hall. And you can see that this is, the arrangement is held by everyone. But, friends, friends, that's what happened, that's the will of the hall. Please. Dear colleagues, what are we going to do now if you're not going to start the procedure. Or procedure? Look, if it's not out of procedure, I'll just stop. Is there a Cabal? If there's a Cabal, I can give it to him because his last name was named. If there's no Cabal, I won't give it to him. If it offends you. Dear colleagues, all right, then let's move on to the next one. Thank you. The Cabal does, doesn't it? The right to a replica is Vladimir Cabal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u82	I want to comment. In fact, the position of some of our colleagues in our faction is that some of the moments, that is, we as a faction supported this bill, we voted. What's more, we really did a good job in the working group with Irina Volodymyrna. Thank you so much for finally understanding the faction that it represents a need for a more governmental approach to military matters. And I am very, truly, very grateful, very grateful for working in the group. And about why some of our faction's colleagues didn't support the vote in general, because there are really some issues that need to be worked out. This is true of the wounded, and we want to increase the pay a little bit and bring the minimum wage to the minimum wage. And second, the second nuance is what really applies to instructors, we need to work on the second reading. So, colleagues, thank you. I hope we vote for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u83	Dmitri Alexanderovich, do you have a procedure? Please, Clever out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u84	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. In fact, it is very easy for America to tell how much you love the Fatherland and to block the laws that are important to the State. But I'd like to ask you, the point was that the law would be prepared, it would be passed into the hall. True, there are many right things. I'm sure in a week and a half we'll be able to vote on it as a whole. Today, however, to do what we promised our military, by the end of this week, to vote on the decree that blocks that law. As he prepares, as long as he's sent to you for signature, we'll be able to vote on the one we're talking about today, 9342. And one will cover the other. You know it as well as I do. So I'm still going to ask you to question the 8312 Resolution on the inclusion of this plenary session. It won't go away, well, then we'll wait another week.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u85	Dmitri Alexanderovich, you also know that there is a Conciliation Council in the Supreme Council. And it was this Conciliation Board that created the task force. And this task force, I think, worked very well, and we're trying to find a way out of this situation. And put some of your own things in order to put Parliament in an awkward position, well, I don't know if it can answer to the questions of general ethics. Let's move on. Next question is 9261. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to reopen cases concerning the disciplinary responsibility of judges and to ensure that the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors of the High Council of Justice works. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[12:12:27]] For 301 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:12:46]] For the 250. Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, two in favor, two in favour, against or from the introduction of the bill? Then give Maslov up to 2 minutes, submit the bill and two in favor, two in favor, against, and we vote. Please, Denise Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u86	Thank you, colleagues. You know, one of the prerequisites for ensuring a good court composition, a virtuous judiciary is the possibility of handling disciplinary complaints about the actions or inaction of judges. Today, about 10,000 complaints against judges from all over Ukraine are being brought to justice in the Supreme Council of Justice. During the war, we are forbidden to conduct competitive procedures for the position of the Disciplinary Inspectors Service. The bill deals with the problem that 10,000 disciplinary complaints against judges will eventually be reopened by the Supreme Council of Justice. What does this bill foretell? For the moment. First of all, he removes the restrictions on competitions for disciplinary inspectors and predicts that within two months such a competition should be announced. Second, what he predicts. Prior to the formation of the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors, the members of the High Council of Justice exercise appropriate powers. We must immediately reopen disciplinary complaints against judges in order to ensure a virtuous body, in order to ensure the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of those who appeal to the High Council of Justice. The Committee decided to recommend the adoption of the bill in the first reading, i.e. as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two in favour, two in opposition to this bill. Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u88	Alexei Sergey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u89	Please, Sergey Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, we all know that in order to ensure the continued work of the judicial system, it is necessary for the High Council of Justice to resume its work. Not long ago, we had elected our representatives of the High Council of Justice. It's finally formed, but now about 9,000 complaints remain pending by the High Council of Justice because it hasn't worked in two years. This is unacceptable; citizens cannot make appropriate complaints to judges. So we don't have constitutional law, the main constitutional law is access to justice. So we urgently need to initiate the procedure, reopen the procedure for handling disciplinary complaints against judges, and we need to urgently start the service of disciplinary inspectors. The faction of "European Solidarity" on the first reading will support this bill, regardless of its flaws. For example, it's suggested that inspectors, disciplinary inspectors, refer to category B. For a moment, the "B" category officials are the governors. So this, for example, is not very good in this bill. But we cannot fail to let the High Council of Justice run and work fully. So in the first reading, we will vote, and in the second reading, we will correct certain shortcomings in this bill, so that the Supreme Council of Justice will work as quickly as possible in its entirety. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u91	Please, Maslov Denis Vejacheslavovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u92	Thank you. My colleagues, yesterday we voted with you on the Supreme Council's statement on decisive steps in overcoming corruption in the justice system. So one of the points there is clear, practical steps is the immediate resumption of disciplinary complaints about the actions of judges. Today, we are already implementing on the first reading what we said yesterday. It was our political reaction with you yesterday, today it is practical our activity and our reaction. Therefore, I must ask the representatives of all factions and MPs to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, instead of Kabachenko, right? Please, Kožemykakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u94	National Deputy Cosemyakin, faction of the Fatherland. Colleagues, this law provides for, as the committee head and the drafter of the bill said, the formation of the High Council of Justice of the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors. The Fatherland faction will not support the change in the legal status of the Disciplinary Inspectors Service in the High Council of Justice and the granting of additional powers to disciplinary inspectors. We're so determined, so that's our position. And the second question I'd like to ask in the context of this project is this. The working group worked, the project voted, and we're looking for security and defense. With Kabmin, the Ministry of Defense, Minfin tells us there's no money, there's no money. Yes, the defense and security forces, calling me as a national deputy, are offering a solution to the issue of fund-raising and donations. In view of the fact that, recently, after February 24, a lot of business collaborators have gone abroad and are now trying to start their own funds in some way. To withdraw your funds from Ukraine because of the decision, of course, to whom? That's right, judges. It is the fighters, the military, who offer to the Committee, by the way, to fight corruption, to the point of view, and the NABU also recommend that the status of agents be assigned under the cover of a higher court judge at first. Because the first Parasist Corporal has already gone, which took $3 million, Mr. Princeyev, he has experience, he inspires everyone else today, and all the judges go to raise money in the Armed Forces. Let them take it, and the Armed Forces know what to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u95	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace. Dear colleagues, and after this speech, we vote, please ask the national deputies to prepare themselves for making a decision. Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, surely we must reopen our consideration of the matter. Unfortunately, our decision to deal with these cases has been suspended, and we have this mistake today to correct, and to vote in favour of this bill as quickly as possible, so that it is actually implemented and we have the opportunity to observe the disciplinary responsibility of the judges of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u97	Please, Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich. Dear colleagues, after which we will proceed to the vote. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, when the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges was amended, introduced by the Institute of Disciplinary Inspectors, there were enough people in the room who were opposed to this action, and so was I. You know, at the same time, we stopped all disciplinary actions to create this service. I had a lot of arguments about why it wasn't necessary. After the Supreme Council of Justice lost its powers as a result of the loss of the quorum, after the full-scale aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine took place, we stopped working on the disciplinary issues of judges. Now I urge you to support this bill, in the second reading, we will work together and unlock the work on disciplinary complaints by the High Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all of us have spoken on this issue, let us move on to making a decision. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I propose that the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine should be adopted as a basis for re-examination of cases relating to the disciplinary responsibility of judges and the provision of work for the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors of the Supreme Council of Justice (registration No. 9261). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:23:10]] For 267 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, since this is such an important topic, everyone has confirmed, let's cut it down twice, so that we can try to look at it as a whole at the next meeting. So I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 9261. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:23:49]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, for your support. Next bill, we agreed, no discussion. It's a draft of the Tuberculosis Act in Ukraine, it's 9147. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:24:20]] For 274 Decision taken. I propose to adopt the draft Law on Overcoming Tuberculosis in Ukraine (registration No. 9147). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:24:44]] For 280 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next bill is 5344-4 and 5344-d. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities to work. This is a rereading of the first reading. I would like to suggest that we consider these issues in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:25:21]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please, we're going to have reporters first, aren't we? Who do we have on our first bill? Galina Mikolayevna? Oh, you're on the board. Julia Volodymyrna, will you report on your bill? 5344-4, I understand? Will you report on this bill? [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no alternative, there's 5344-4, and there's a board made of all of them. You will? Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko in her own way, then Galina Mikolayevna, yes, I understand correctly about "the baby." You'll be from the committee, won't you, Galina Mikolayevno? And then there's Grief from the committee, and then there's Two in, there's Two in, there's Two in, there's No. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u100	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u101	No, so your alternative isn't to "d," your alternative has become the main one to which the "dike" has already been made. So first you, Julia Volodymyrna. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u102	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, Bill 5344 on the amendment of certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities to work. This is a rereading of the first reading. When we read what the main bill contains, we offered our alternative. The bill tells us that we believe that financing from the Social Protection Front of persons with disabilities, social, professional, labour and physical and sports rehabilitation, as well as rehabilitation of institutions for persons with disabilities and/or children with disabilities should be financed from the State budget. We believe that this bill should guarantee benefits for all those enterprises that today employ persons with disabilities. We believe that a person with disabilities cannot lose the possibility of short-term medical rehabilitation in health institutions, while a large number of people with disabilities, including military and disabled children, need other forms of rehabilitation, and if approved, they will have the guarantee of such rehabilitation. We believe that our bill guarantees the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It provides that when drafting, the application of legislation aimed at the implementation of this convention should be consulted with public organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u103	Please, Galina Mikolayevna, one of the authors of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a fundamental law, it complements our legislation with a third ingredient. The wounded soldier must, on the one hand, be cured; on the other hand, have a system of rehabilitation, including social, psychological, and other. And we also have to finally create a system of adaptation of injuries to the workplace. This third ingredient was almost never found in Ukraine. We didn't make the standards of job organization for people with lost function, different standards for different disability. The bill, on the one hand, invents the costs of fines and contributions that private businesses can make, but not only, but also the public service, which in this law also receives a quota to which people with disabilities are to be set up. The committee was very fruitful in its second reading and took away almost all the comments that were from the public organizations to that text. The second reading will be attended by a working group headed by Mr. Sergey Grivko. Please, all national deputies, join us in the task force. What did we do before the first read? They formulated the concept of disabled persons literally in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, supplemented article 12, which defines the procedure for involving public organizations of persons with disabilities to participate in the formation and implementation of policies on social protection of persons with disabilities, in accordance with article 4 and article 29 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. For enterprises of social organizations, people with disabilities are directly provided for: they may be the founders of labour integration enterprises. It also retains validity until the end of the 24th year, it is a transformation period, all the rules of articles 14-1, 14-2, 14-3, and by the end of the 24th year, these articles of the Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities will be effective. It simplifies the criteria for acquiring a statute of employment integration enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u105	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. I'm sorry, there are rules for everyone. I'd like to have a word with you. I invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights Committee, Mr. Grivka Sergey Dmitrovitch, to speak. Please, Sergey Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u106	Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainians! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights considered a draft draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities to work (resister 5344-d), as well as an alternative bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities to work (5344-4), submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko, Yulia Volodymir and other Ukrainian national deputies. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, proposals were made to re-read the bill, which came from the national deputies of Ukraine of the Third Country Galina of Mikolayivna, Tsimbaluka Mikhailovich, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich and Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, who were partially counted. Accordingly, the Committee on Integration of Ukraine into the European Union concluded that the draft does not conflict with the objectives of the Association and Rights Agreement of the European Union, but needs to be further developed with a view to taking full account of the provisions of the acquis of the EU. The Deputy Prime Minister for European Affairs for the European Integration of Ukraine, Stefanishina, in her conclusion to the bill, stated that the draft law in general corresponds to the acts of the European Union and the objectives of the Association Agreement, with the exception of certain provisions which partially take account of the acquis of the EU, and therefore needs to be amended to fully comply with the acquis of the EU in relation to the competence of the draft law to the list of priority European integrations. The committee on the outcome of the review and discussion of these drafts at its meeting on 22 March 2023 decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve the text of the Committee's revised first reading of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities to work (register 5344-d) and on the basis of paragraph 1 of the first part. Article 114 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of which we will consider again in the first reading, accepting it as a basis. During the voting on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Some.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u107	Thank you, Your Honor. Please register: two in, two in, two in. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tsabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, let's do something good for people with disabilities for the first time in 30 years as the Supreme Council. The system that exists now was formed in Soviet times. Sadly, everything about improving the working space for people with disabilities has hardly been reformed during this time. No previous summons was adopted, they were afraid to adopt appropriate laws, because the status quo of all was in place, when some people with disabilities were redeemed, let's say, by the state, when the state formed a system when it was just being bought out, it created a system where employers were obliged to hire a certain percentage of persons, we all know what manipulations there are. The bill that we are currently considering is proposing to reform the work space system to the standards that are now in place in the European Union. Yes, indeed, the first time we looked at it, there were a lot of observations, but they were worked out. And when, you know, I'm told that the bill violates rights or makes things worse, sorry, go to Europe, see what the state does for people with disabilities. And we want to move in that direction, so this bill is exactly what we're proposing to do at least the first steps. Colleagues, I urge you all to support this bill. Let's just take this first step, and then we'll take the next step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u109	Thank you. Please give the floor to national deputy Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u110	Please pass the word to Galina Trelyakowi.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u111	Galina Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will continue what we did on the second reading. But I would like to point out that this is the same reform of the third component of the return to economic independence that we've been doing with you in terms of rehabilitation. We did it before the war, but it was the system that was transformed that began to bear its fruit now. We also need to start reforming the adaptation of a person who has lost a function, including through the aggression of the Russian Federation, which has harmed our people’s lives and health. We need to start this reform at the moment in order to get the standards for adapting such a person, the standards, including the building, the design of such jobs. In addition, the bill provides for a social worker who can accompany a disabled person if necessary. For example, if a person has lost his upper limbs and needs someone to help him. Or the person who lost his hearing as a result of the injury needs a social worker. We simplified the criteria for enterprise status, labour integration, before that was only 50 percent of people with disabilities. If an enterprise employs 30 percent of the people with disabilities in the first group, in this case this indicator is reduced from 50 to 30, thus stimulating employment integration not only for people with a third disability but also for the first and second. The requirements for the creation of protected enterprises have been reduced. It is extended to those who should comply with the standards of employment of people with disabilities. We've talked about this before. And a system has been set up to compensate the employer for the job placement. I mean, the subsidy and compensation system works in every European country, and it has to start.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u113	Thank you. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. After Julia Volodymyrovna will be Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich and then we will vote. Surrender, all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, this is Bill 5344. The Fatherland faction, Timoshenko. Dear friends, there is no doubt that there may be something good about this law and there is something that needs to be implemented, but there are things that, if you vote, you will take responsibility for yourself, believe me. The point is that for people with disabilities, this law cancels four things. First. For decades, it has been said that if a person with disabilities creates an enterprise and 75 percent of the people with disabilities work there, they do not pay taxes. I can tell you now that hundreds of thousands of people with disabilities have jobs because of this law. If you vote for this law, you throw them out on the street. The other one. The law, which is now being repealed, stipulates that every enterprise is obliged to take at least one or two people with disabilities and socialize them. If you vote now, you cancel. And remember, we have tens of thousands wounded today. And if you cancel that now, that means whoever pressed this button against our wounded, who became people with disabilities. Here I have a foothold of references to the Head of the Supreme Council from the Association of Persons with Disabilities who are calling out to you, don't take away their work. Everyone who press the button, believe me, I'll make sure that everyone who's hurt knows that you've taken away his job after he's cured and into the world. Vote against it! We just insist on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u115	The word is given to Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u116	Please pass the word to Irina Nicorak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u117	Please, Mrs. Irina Nicorak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u118	Irina Nikorak, faction of European Solidarity. Colleagues, we support an important goal of creating conditions for the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities of the right to work. In fact, though, we have quite a point. First of all, it is not clear why the Act on Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine removes the rule that authorities at all levels should involve representatives of social associations of persons with disabilities in the preparation of decisions relating to their rights. It is quite important for such associations to participate in advisory bodies and local self-government bodies. How, then, should people with disabilities take their stand and defend the rights that are vital to them? In addition, the bill deprives people of their right to participate in the work of the MSEC, whose activity and transparency we have a great deal of questions. It doesn't seem to belong to the public. And the third. The bill essentially deprives people of State support for the social integration of persons with disabilities. Thousands of people working for such businesses today, including the Ukrainian Armed Forces, may lose their jobs and livelihoods. So for the time being, our faction will be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, and we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies, please prepare. I would like to remind you that this is a rereading of the first reading, so I ask you to be responsible for your choice. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take your seats. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities to work (registration number 5344-d). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:10]] For 246 Decision taken. Guys, let's move on. The next two bills. Show the factions, please. The next two bills are 9285 and 9286, and we agreed that the first was discussed and the second was not discussed. So let's go to Bill 9285. This is a draft decree for the execution by the Chiefs of Military Administration of Human Settlements in the Kramatorsky and Pokrovsk oblast of the Donetsk oblast of credentials provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:45:05]] For 264 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[12:45:31]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski, right, briefly? Is it two in a row, two in a row? Come on, two in, two in, against, colleagues, come on. Please sign up. Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mikhajlovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u120	Please give the floor to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u121	Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u122	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, surely we must vote on this decision. I literally only returned on Sunday from Kramatrsky, Comrade, Jar Times, all of this I saw with my own eyes. Of course, military administration is needed. It's very painful to see how an enemy who's been talking so much means that they're going to protect, protect Donbass's people, they're going to destroy him, they're going to kill him, they're going to destroy him. This is the horde that came to our land. It's very painful to see how many other Donbass cities have worked at the Pottery Center, and it's especially painful for me to see how we have to stop today. But I'm sure Ukraine will win and restore this land, and that's very important to us. All of our factions, we go there regularly, we go there regularly, so obviously this is a decision to make. But I want to go back to everyone. Friends, don't use these things, as we see in Chernigov, where there is an attack on local self-government and where there is no basis for similar decisions. So you don't have to use such tragic events as we can see are now happening on Donbassa to actually subjugate and crush local self-government and destroy it in general. And I, my friends, have an offer. We voted with you today on matters of the military, we took the first step -- vacations, some extra payments. But we need to move on, return all possible supplements, thirty, all we can give to our military. And you know, to make it easier for you to make this decision, colleagues, I invite you to hold an outgoing meeting of the Supreme Council in Kramatorsky, in Friendskowka, in Time Yar, I think there will be more clear. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u123	Please give the floor to Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, certainly in discussing these two draft regulations, the Fatherland faction will support them. But at the same time, I want to draw attention to some of the signals that are coming, I'm sure, not only to our "Paternity" faction, but also to other factions. These are signals from those rural communities, such as the Alexandrian community, that in Donetskin, that the state of affairs, for now, there is local self-government, there are accepted budgets, there are no problems with the work of this representative body. Instead, the draft decree gives and motivates us to vote by appointing a military chief. I just want to say that local self-government is a discussion, it's collegiality, it's openness. What the Chief of Military Administration is going to do is a huge question. And the next thing I'd like to pay attention, especially to the distinguished colleagues from the National Security and Defence Committee. We don't know who we're voting for, who we're going to be, who's going to be the head of the military administration. Could you, the honourable representatives of this distinguished committee, invite these candidates to come to the committee, talk to them, listen to their first steps they will take, and only then in the hall on the basis of your decision, the Committee on Safety and Defence, we will be able to adopt these decisions. The Fatherland faction will support the two decrees. But these suggestions, which I have just heard, please take into account and the following similar decisions to vote without any warning. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u125	Please, Your Honor, there is now Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich and then we will proceed to the vote. For one determination and then immediately without discussion from A, and then Klimenko Julia Leonidivna. Okay, I'm recording Klimenko. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, then Julia Leonidivna Klimenko and then we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, please pass the word to our colleague Mrs. Grib Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u127	Please, Mrs. Victoria Greeb.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, Mr. Eutuszek raised very important questions. We really don't understand who we're going to vote for, who we're going to give the authority to. I want to say that unfortunately, in the Donetsk region today, it's completely unclear how the heads of the VCA are assigned. I'm not talking about the invasion of self-government, because the Donetsk region, we understand, is a frontal area. But unfortunately, those criteria that should be in the heads of the VCA, we don't see them being appointed today. There is no military experience. This is the first time. It's different. For example, the Novodonite community, where the mayor worked perfectly well, is being changed today. And the Belozer community, where the mayor is not practically fulfilling his obligations, is sitting without heat, sitting all winter, leaving him. So I have a lot of questions about these assignments right now. I would very much like to have parliamentary control over such appointments. And I agree once again with Mr. Eutusek that we need to see those people, at least who they appoint. Thank you all very much. And I'm still asking today not to support this decision in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u129	Please, Julia Leonidina Klimenko. Dear colleagues, and after that, we move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, all these populated items that we're currently discussing and that we're going to continue to discuss, they're either in a combat zone, or next to a war zone, or they're recently released, or after the invasion. We had a discussion on the committee yesterday, more faithfully, we heard that the government had decided that they would rebuild six population points: the Trieste, the Borodian, the Mosconian of the Kyiv region, the Circus, the Jadne and Posad-Pokrovsky. Dear colleagues, this is a very wrong approach, in our view, to take six locations and try to rebuild them completely. Maybe we'd better look at where and how systematically in the populated areas of the occupied or frontal areas that need to be changed there, so that you can either go back there or stay there, or you want to go back there in the near future. So I call on those new appointed heads, as well as the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion of this issue, we're moving on to a decision, please prepare. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the implementation by the Chiefs of Military Administration of Human Settlements in the Kramator and Pochrovsk Region of the Donetsk Region of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of military status (registration number of the draft Decree 9285). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:54:41]] For 274 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Next, no discussion, dear colleagues. I immediately make two suggestions. First. To include in the agenda of the day session a draft Decision on the implementation of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status of Ukraine (Registration No. 9286). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:55:27]] For 281 I propose the adoption, as a whole, of the necessary technical and legal amendments, of a draft Decision on the implementation by the Chiefs of the Hire, Pásnian and Severodeconet City Military Administrations of the Severodeconet region of the Luhansk Region of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of military status (draft regulation 9286). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:56:07]] For 283 Decision taken. Next, 9206. It's a second reading. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act on the implementation of European legislation into national legislation by implementing specific provisions of the EU acquis in the field of audiovisual advertising (European Convention on Transborder Television, European Parliament Directives and the Council 2010/13/EU on audiovisual media services since 10 March 2010 with amendments to Directive (EU) 2018/1808 of 14 November 2018) and to certain other laws (it is 9206). Dear colleagues, we had such an agreement on the Conciliation Council that there would be three minutes -- a performance by Krulko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Corrections? What's that? I wrote down, Ivan Ivanovich, that you have three minutes to perform. Next, 2 minutes Ustinov, 2 minutes Stefanishina. Right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Ah, Jurchishin, excuse me, Jurchishin and Stefanishin, two minutes. And then we can vote, right? Please, let's get started, two minutes then, Yurchishin and Stefanishina, and then we'll deal with the Fatherland, which is your format.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u132	Please place the number 178 and 179 on confirmation. In general, thank you very much to the committee for the quality of the bill, but it seems strange that we are weakening the restrictions that are currently in place on television on the non-advertising of alcohol. No matter how it actually happens in European countries, we have a war now, we now have a huge challenge with people trying to find antidepressants where they don't exist. And that's how you can understand that if the ad goes from 11 to 6, the kids won't see it. But children are oriented toward us, so I do not see the logic of allowing alcohol to be advertised and so at this time. Please, in fact, fail these adjustments and leave the alcohol unadvertised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u133	Thank you. Jaroslav Romanovich. The only thing, let's go, is the amendments I got, but we're going to put the amendments to the confirmation at the end, and I wrote them down. Maybe there's someone else who'll make the adjustments, and I don't know. Then I wrote down that you're going to demand 78th, 79th for confirmation, and then we're going to end up. Come on, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u134	Colleagues, I'm drawing your attention, a strong-alcohol commercial allowed in the country all these years since 11 o'clock, my friends. Mr. Jaroslav, what are we talking about? That's not what it's about, and it's allowed from 11 to 6 in the morning, and it stays. We have the most regulated industry, colleagues. There is no such thing in any country, even in Scandinavian, even Finland, or Sweden. We've forbidden everything, we've regulated that, don't we have people less than that, I'm sorry, eat? Of course not. Or, colleagues, then let's make a bill, like in the United States, about dry law, and see what happens to the country. Because the United States has been through this. Again, we're not weakening from 11 to 6 strong alcohol, nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u135	Thank you. The position is clear, but we're voting after this, okay, colleagues? Would you please tell me someone else is going to put the repairs on the table? If you don't, then we will, let's get it confirmed right away. No one makes any adjustments. Thank you very much. Once again, Julia Volodymyrna, will you not bet? No, it's not. Are you not going to make any adjustments? Let me listen to Krulke. Please, John Ivanovich. What are you doing, and how are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u136	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to, I want to go to the repairs, I have amendments to numbers 16, 95, 137, 138, 336, 338 and 341.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u137	Simply, John Ivanovich, as if we had a slightly different arrangement, it's about what we're talking about at the Conciliation Council. Well, that's a story. Then, Julia Volodymyrna, if you'll excuse me for a moment, please. Dear colleagues, let's make 16 amendments, then we'll start with Krulka, 16 amendments. Okay, now he's introducing her. 16th Amendment, Krulko. Are you going to represent or are we going to vote now? Will you, Ivan Ivanovich? Ivan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u138	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The amendment number 16 that I'm now introducing is rejected by the committee. In paragraph 17 of section 1 of the bill, I suggested that the word "idea" should be deleted. Why so? Because the term "advertisement" cannot be defined as information about the idea, because according to Directive 2010/13 of the European Union, audiovisual commercial communication means images with or without sound accompanying which are intended to advertise, directly or indirectly, the goods, services or image of a natural or legal person engaged in economic activity. That's why the word "idea," which is in the bill, and what I suggested by my amendment to reject, is perfectly logical and is in line with the directive of the European Union. Please support my amendment and vote. And please comment on the head.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u139	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u140	Please. Fellows, a moment of your attention! It's important, colleagues! Not only did John Ivanovich Krulko propose to do this but also Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, Head of the Supreme Council. But we did have a discussion on the committee, and I'm asking you to pay attention. This is not prohibited, John Ivanovich, by a directive. Now imagine an advertisement that says, "Love Ukraine!".. And someone paid for it. Love Ukraine is what product? Ukraine is what's the trade mark? Love Ukraine is an idea. And so after the discussion, we decided to leave the idea behind. Although I respect both the expertise of the Chief of the Supreme Council and your proposal, Ivan Ivanovich. Well, that was the story.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I then place 16 amendments to Krulk's authorship, it is rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] My other one. She's different from mine. I'm putting 16 amendments to Krulk's authorship, and it's rejected by the committee. You've heard the side arguments. Please vote. [[13:05:13]] For 176 The decision is not taken. Next, please, Ivan Ivanovich, 95th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u142	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, Mr. Head, for making the previous amendment to the vote, because it is really important, and more importantly, we feel the same way with you in the context of the need to finalize this bill that we are currently considering. Although I would end up saying that this bill contains a number of very positive norms that apply to advertising and, of course, there's a lot of support in this bill, it will improve the situation for many: both those who present advertising and those who actually show it on their television and radio. And as for Amendment 95, it's a more technical amendment. Paragraph 13 of paragraph 7 of paragraph 1 of section I of the bill is proposed to be excluded, because such positions are more appropriate in the End Positions of the Law, not in its main text. This is why, in order for us to follow the norm, I propose that we support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u143	Would you please explain whether we are voting right now? We're voting, aren't we? Dear colleagues, the 95th amendment of Krulk's authorship is rejected by the committee, so please. You heard the position. Please vote. [[13:06:56]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 137. Please, John Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u144	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. 137 amendments apply here. In paragraph 20 of paragraph 12 of section 1 of section I of the bill, the words "the situation of this part does not apply to advertising distributed in the official languages of the European Union, a legal person who is located in one or more European Union Member States. I suggest we rule out the bill, but the committee didn't support it. And I want to explain why I suggested that this rule be excluded. Because the proposed novelty places the competitive conditions of advertisers on a territorial level in unequal terms. I'd like to take a very careful look at this amendment, because all of the subjects working in the relevant market have to have a level playing field. And I'd like the committee head to comment on my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u145	Please, Mikita Ruslanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u146	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Colleagues, pay attention! This is a very important story, and in very difficult discussions with European experts, we have stood up to this position. It protects the Ukrainian market from advertising in Russian or even in Ukrainian, but it will be available free of charge in Ukraine, perhaps on foreign channels. That's why we're protecting our market, John Ivanovich, that's the logic. And it was very hard for us to stand up for it in our European colleagues, but we stood up for it, and we protected our market. So please, colleagues, support the committee's decision and still disregard the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 137 amendments to the authorship of Krulk Ivan Ivanovich. She's been rejected by the committee. You heard the arguments. I'm betting on the author's proposal to take this into account. [[13:09:13]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 138 Amendment, Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u148	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like to point out more about the previous amendment, for a detailed explanation to thank the head of the committee, for really working very closely on this bill, which, once again, puts many European norms into Ukrainian legislation, in fact, it is in many ways the direction of European integration, the implementation of commitments made to us and brings us closer to the norms and rules that operate in the European Union in the context of advertising, it is very and very important. But at the same time, you see that even the European Union, their experts supported the idea that I advocated in the previous amendment. With regard to amendment 138, I ask that paragraph 23 of paragraph 12 of section 1 of the bill be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, 138 amendments to Krulk's authorship were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:10:41]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Ivan Ivanovich, 336 your amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u150	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. It's actually a key amendment to this bill, and I'd like everyone to hear it from the colleagues who are in the hall. The changes proposed by the project will result in a loss of control by the state over property that has entered the statutory capital and transferred to NSOs on the right to economic knowledge. Thus, such government property could be alienated or written off by the decision of the NTU without the consent of the State. The enforcement of the alienation and write-off of the assets of the NSOs is legally regulated and must be carried out in accordance with the order approved, the alienation of property, approved by Cabinet Regulation No. 803, and the write-off of property approved by Cabinet of Ministers Decree No.1314. I would like to request that section 6, paragraph 6, of the bill be deleted. This is an extremely important amendment regarding the protection of property. And I think it's the head.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u151	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u152	My colleagues, first of all, NTU can't just go somewhere. Even if it sells something somewhere, only through ProZorro, only through government mechanisms, colleagues, Kabmin will further refine all of these procedures. But, colleagues, you all know Melnikov's Pencil, it worked out a Soviet model that costs millions of dollars in service. My colleague Mikol Knieżicky had a great idea, and we're working on it to get this pencil to the national archives. What's more, we've already allowed it in the About Media Act, it's a technical clarification, colleagues. So, Ivan Ivanovich, with all due respect, we rejected it because it's already in the About Media Act. We're just technically clarifying the norm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, 336 amendments by Krulk, rejected by the committee, you have heard the arguments of the parties. I'm betting on a vote of 336 amendments. Please vote. [[13:13:09]] For-55 The decision is not taken. The next 338 amendments. Please, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, you know, I would just like to complement what the committee head was talking about. You're absolutely right, there's a series of assets that take away the costs that could be on completely different things, on the product, and not on the maintenance of buildings. I even know a specific figure: "Cast" costs 120 million dollars a year to keep the government budget. I understand that very well. But at the same time, what I want to draw everyone's attention to, let's say, you have a profile committee, you have an appropriate working group, and in order for parliamentary control, check, because there's property still in the areas, it's in the center of district cities, so that this property isn't sold out, so that there's a product for local television and people to have access to local television and to the local radio that our citizens really need. That's why I would ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u155	Please, 338 amendments by Krulk, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:14:42]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next 341 amendments to Krulk's authorship, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u156	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This is my last amendment to this bill. I'll go on with my opinion. So I would ask the committee, and this is my advice, to create a mechanism of parliamentary control after this law is implemented. We must protect the property that is now owned by the State. That property, which is a wasteful property that today brings out circulation costs, certainly has to be done with it, but it's also more reasonable. Perhaps it can be used for other needs that may be used, including in the interests of our social language. But in general, I would really like to thank you for working on this bill, for putting European standards into it. And I want our social language to really be that way and have the number one ratings on TV among all the other channels, then it's going to be really effective reforms that are going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u157	Thank you. 341 amendment of Krulk's authorship was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:17]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've been through all the adjustments we've made. Now, let's move on to the amendments that support this. And we're starting with two amendments, which were told to us by the noble Mr. Jurczin, national deputy Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich. This is 178-a, 179-a, they're a committee, one counted, the other partially counted. You heard the position, the Jurchishin People's Deputy explained why he needed to put the committee's decision to confirm. The chairman of the committee explained why they should be left in the editorial board, which was proposed by the committee, or why they should be supported. So let's do it one at a time. 178 Amendment to the authorship of Poturajeva. She's a committee member. At the same time, the national deputy Jurchishin asks for this amendment to be made, such a decision by the committee, for confirmation. So I'm betting on confirming 178 amendments. People's deputies, please vote. 178th, colleagues. 178th. [[13:17:40]] For-191 No correction will be counted. The next amendment is 179 by Abdullin. It's partially accounted for. At the same time, the national deputy Jurchisin asks the committee to make such a decision for confirmation. That's why I put 179. [[B in m in s a l in]] 179th is one seven nine. I told you she's part-time, respectable colleagues. It's partially accounted for, so I'm putting this committee's 179th amendment on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:18:34]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The amendment will be regarded as rejected. Yes, please, Stefan, 204th and 205th. Two minutes and then we'll put them in. And then there's another amendment for confirmation, 174th. I forgot who'd bet. Yeah, that's it. Then please, Stefan.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to thank you all for not supporting the amendments that are really expanding the opportunities to promote alcohol for people. The following amendments I will talk about also apply to the advertising of alcohol. Mr. Mikita is the author of these amendments, and he is the co-author of this bill. And I was very surprised when the pro-European bill that I signed, for the second reading, became, well, an open lobbying of alcoholic companies. The European Union does not specifically require us to expand the advertising of alcohol, as proposed by Amendments 204 and 205. One of them is offering to expand and give more advertising on the Internet, and the other one is actually going to be able to advertise alcohol in the form of a product-player in the loop and other social networks that our children use. I have a question, well, and to you, Mr. Mikito, and to all of us: are we going to be doing more alcoholism in our society today during the war? Alcohol advertising is definitely off-limits right now, and believe me, as a representative of the medical committee, there are other evidence drugs that can help people cope with stress. Alcohol is definitely not the method we need for our mental health. Although I understand that everyone is tired and sick. So I'm asking you very much to figure out how you just did it with the amendments that my colleague raised, 204th and 205th. We do not need to expand the advertising of alcohol today, especially for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u159	Committee position. Mikita Ruslanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u160	I'll tell you what just happened in the hall. Here many have said that let us give the medium without oligaric influence, without this. Hello! Is there something I heard from the hall-- the alcohol mafia? But you have to have a conscience, say something like that! They left the Ukrainian media with no money. Hello! You will receive greetings from all the regional media, national media. Congratulations! As far as the Internet is concerned, colleagues, the Internet has not been regulated at all. So we did something to regulate it. And when you say, colleagues, about the liquid that's in Chinese jurisdiction, well, go tell the techtok or Instagram that you're here in Ukraine that you're allowed to forbid. At least we did something to regulate it. And you say, no, you did the wrong thing. So let's leave it, let's leave it out of order, like now, that we can put anything there, without any sanctions, without any responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, we vote in favour of these amendments. The amendment of 204 by Poturayev and other colleagues is partially taken into account. At the same time, Deputy Stefanisin asks the committee to make such a decision for confirmation. So I'm putting amendment 204 in the section where it's part of the vote. Please vote. [[13:22:42]] For-198 The decision is not taken. And 205 amendments, it's taken into account by the committee, by Mikita Poturayev and her colleagues. At the same time, national deputy Stefanisin also requests that such a decision be made by the committee for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:23:13]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Corrections are considered rejected. Dear colleagues, I understand there will be another amendment, Zablocksky will make, 174th, yes. And then we can go to voting for the law as a whole. Is that right? Please, Zablock.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u162	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear colleagues, the request to make an amendment for confirmation and not to support it, as far as I know, has already been discussed since the committee meeting and the steering committee agrees that this can be passed on to another bill. In short, the amendment does not apply at all to the subject of advertising as such. Certainly, the government’s smoking policy is suggested to put cigarettes on the shoulders of our merchants, and it is suggested that cigarettes be banned. I propose to resolve this in another bill, and I don't want to impose on our entrepreneurs right now, which we're still blocking tax breaks, other problems, additional costs with the transformation of completely all other trading points. [[inexplicable]] Now is not the time to do this and, as far as I know, is the principle of a political agreement to do it at least with transitional adequate periods, not from today to tomorrow. In general, it is right to resolve such matters, not by subjugating them into an irrelevant law, but with a full discussion procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u163	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u164	Fellows, a moment of your attention! After you've taken away independent media money, please pay attention to this conflict, too. So, of course, none of us are happy that kids go to school by the bar, where there are cigarettes, or kids go to the supermarket with their parents, there's a cigarette stand, that's true. And in fact, in many countries of Europe, it's all closed up, not in all, in Poland, for example, not in Poland. This amendment could have been accepted without question, and I voted on the committee, but bear in mind that there are uncalculated potential damages to the national budget for excise duties and to the locals from the grasslands congregation. So let's say, colleagues, you've done a lot today to support the Ukrainian economy, we can take another powerful step. I'm going to vote on the committee, I'm going to support it, I'm not going to change my mind. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is, by the way, your amendment. The committee's decision is taken into account. I'll call it in. Because I think you were upset that you were. I'm going to make an announcement. Dear colleagues, I, if I may, am a respected colleague, 174 amendments to the authorship of Váterović and other colleagues. She's a committee member. At the same time, National MP Zablocký asks for such a decision to be made by the committee for confirmation. So I'm making 174 amendments. Please vote. [[13:26:38]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have completed the passage of this bill. It's been discussed, it's very good. Let's move on to making a decision. Please be prepared. This is, by the way, the Euro-Integration Law, and I'm asking you to fill in the responsibility. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Law on Advertising of Ukraine on the implementation of European legislation in the national legislation of Ukraine by implementing certain provisions of the EU acquis in the field of audiovisual advertising (the European Convention on Cross-border Television, the Directives of the European Parliament and the Council 2010/13/EU on audiovisual media services from 10 March 2010 with amendments to Directive (EU) 2018/1808 of 14 November 2018) (in brackets), and to some other laws (the registration number of Law 9206). Ready to vote? I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[13:28:08]] For 298 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Next. Danilo Alexandrovich, from the procedure? Please, Danilo the Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u166	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u167	In factions, show the last vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, we have two great bills in the agenda today. These bills apply to consumer credit and consumer credit for internally displaced persons, and people are waiting for these bills. I suggest you change the order of the day's affairs and look at them now. It's the second reading, there'll be no amendments. Thank you. Agreed with factions. Nina Petrovney.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u169	And, well, look, this proposal is, let's vote, let's not vote, that's the proposal. Because the two bills, as Danilo Alexandrovich says, all said they would not. No, no. Danilo Aleksandrovich says that everyone agreed without amendment. Oh, no? Danilo Alexandrovich. Danilo Alexandrovich, let's go to the State Property Fund, figure it out, and then. Let's not make a storm. And you'll have time, you'll have time to talk to your colleagues. So we're going to go into the next bill, 8250. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Property Fund of Ukraine to optimize the structure of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. It's the second reading, my esteemed colleagues. Please tell me, will someone insist on taking into account their changes? No one's going to insist on taking into account their amendments, right? Thank you. Will anyone insist on it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute, are you on your own? Oh, I get it, two minutes, right? Three minutes. Please. Reverend Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to go through all the amendments, I would like to inform you a little bit, because in fact, the amendments to the Maintenance Fund Act, which in the first reading applied only to changes to the structure of the fund, as well as to the appointment of representatives of the fund's head as political office, were complemented by amendments to a number of laws that should be specifically discussed. As a result of the discussion that's been going on here and there, and we've been going on in the room, we've actually found an option that we've now proposed in the second table re-reading the second reading. But I want to pay attention and ask for this decision to be made in separate draft laws. So that we can understand that the procedure for transferring confiscated assets is changing right now, which is operating today according to the law, starting with the decision of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court coming into the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Cabinet of Ministers then determines which body of state institutions is going to be dealing with any further share of these assets or sales, or management, or any other way. Now in this bill, this function is fully transferred to the holding fund. Deeply aware that if structural changes are essential to the new head of the fund, such changes would be something we would like to understand where and when we lost the ARMA as an institution that was created with authority, with professional skills and requirements for all those working at the ARMA. Where did we lose it? Why can't we restore it to this very institution? But nevertheless, I think you want to experiment and give this opportunity first for the holding fund and then for other institutions. As a result of all the discussions, we were able to defend the investment climate and the rule of law, this enabled us to unlock the draft law and now vote. But once again, this is a great experiment, we're going to support this bill to give Mr. Umer's head an additional opportunity now. But I wanted the committee to monitor the implementation of this norm, its efficiency and its rationality, or we would lose some of the economy because of these actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u171	Thank you. Please, well, don't react, it's a compromise, thank you. Next, I know, Julia Volodymyrna is five minutes. Dear colleagues, Julia Volodymyrna is five minutes. Then, as I understand it, there will be 209 Puzichuk and 201 Friz, and then we'll go to the vote. Do you have a deal? No one's going to insist anymore. Julia Volodymyr, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u172	Dear friends, I'd like to talk to you about what the holding fund is doing right now. In order for me to be reasoned, I'm just going to give you one example. November 21st. There's an electronics factory. It's a fairly strategic enterprise. So in November of 21st year, he was auctioned 40 million dollars, at that rate -- 970 million dollars. But then the result was destroyed, it was completely annulled, and 40 million, while an effective owner, did not receive it. Remember, Electronics, 40 million, November 21st, before the war. Now virtually yesterday, the electronics were auctioned during the war, and they just donated it for $3 million. You feel the difference: 40 million and 3 million? This means that if you, while the people of Ukraine are at war, are embezzling the property of the state, giving up everything in the world that is in Ukraine, you are simply committing a crime against the Ukrainian people. Go sell your apartments today during the war, sell your business during the war, just get rid of everything today when there is no market, no demand, nothing. Do you realize it's corruption or not? Last time a law had been passed that would eliminate at least 1,000 200 state-owned enterprises, it was also for the holding fund to be filed. Do you think the people gave you the right to eliminate 1,000 200 state-owned enterprises or where the state-owned unit is behind you when the people are at war? You realize that these 1,000 200 companies that you've put in the past law to eliminate, you could make a powerful part of the economy of Ukraine if you were involved with the right investors, the right loans, the support of the state, then we would just be a country that has industrial meaning. What the Holding Foundation is doing today is deindustrialising Ukraine. When state-owned, part-state-owned enterprises are eliminated, when these enterprises are actually destroyed, or as I told you about Electronmash, a strategic enterprise, are sold for money, and the budget gets nothing. And this law, the bill that you're currently considering, is not just about changing the structure, it's about a structure that will allow during the war, while everyone's fighting, to sell everything we have in the state without consulting Ukrainian society. And that's what this bill looks like as a front-rower at the time Kiev was being shelled, at a time when Parliament gathered almost under the blows of ballistic missiles in order to sell everything the people of Ukraine have. But not only is this, here as small forms, small privatization, are the key strategic mines of Ukraine being sold. That's the law. And that's already a blow to our energy security, because mines can't be sold as little privatization. And in general, the state that wants to have an energy independence strategy, notice our coal sector, which is part of that. I'm not talking about this law being practically spied on by corruption. When, for example, you acquire something on an electronic auction, even if you acquire it illegally and this is a raid, it is forbidden in court to charge it. This is said to have been done before. I don't understand what you, members of the Supreme Council representing the people, are doing in this room, except for the people's interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, yes, we all did. Right? Now there are two more amendments that will apply to the confirmation. Please, first Puzijczuk – 209 amendments, then Fries – 201st, and then we vote in favour of the law as a whole. I'd like to invite the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u174	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, the bill of approval of the Holding Fund may have been amended by chance to privatize the state mines. Today, more than ever, the coal sector remains a strategically important sector, especially during a full - scale war, especially now that there is a shortage of electricity. The state must prepare for the next heating season, and the state must now care and develop state mines, increase its own production. And we had a professional discussion in Parliament with our colleagues, this is a representative of the committee Mr. Movchan will confirm, and we agreed that we would put this amendment to confirm and rule out. We need to develop our own coal sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u175	Thank you. The only thing, before I give Mr. Silent's word, in an updated table is 210 amendment, is part of it. Please, Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! This amendment is very simple, it's about synchronizing Ukrainian privatization legislation. What's the point? In 2000, the Act on Privatization of Industrial Enterprises was adopted. It's very different from the general privatization legislation, there's no electronic auctions, there's no competition. I don't know why Parliament was motivated by the convening of this bill, but in terms of the market and the economy, it's wrong. We're saying that if we're selling, we have general principles and we're moving according to them, no matter what, it's mines or it's a state-owned Spirt Plant, or it's just an object. That's why I support this amendment because I'm the author of it, and I'm asking you to identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, let's make a decision. No, we'll make a decision on this amendment. The only thing I'm going to make clear is that it's 210. Can I talk to you for a second? I've got a scoreboard of 210. If you're talking about coal mines, I'm reading a silent amendment, it's edited. Complete section I of the project with this content. In the Act on the peculiarities of the privatization of industrial enterprises, and beyond. I've got 210. I'm just going to put the one in the last one. Dear colleagues, once again, 210 revisions. It is edited by the committee by the author of the Silent. An argument about this. [[B in m in s a l in]] About ten years old, we did not make the decision to make the procedure. Your Honor, I said that. Dear colleagues, just in the last table this amendment is 210. And we're voting now for 210 amendments to the silent authorship, it's taken into account editorially. At the same time, Puzijchuk, a national deputy, asks for this amendment to the coal mines for confirmation. I'm putting 210 amendments on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:43:16]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The amendment is considered rejected. What else, two more repairs? Eutushka, please. Eutscheek, et cetera. Three adjustments will be made, right? Eutusek first, then Vadim Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. It's about amendment 216, which is counted, and 217, which is also included. Amendment 216. To complete section I of the project on changes to the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property with the following paragraph: "In paragraph 7.4 of section "Towards and Transitional Positions", paragraph 14 should be supplemented by the words "and objects of great privatization". It is this right that I would ask you not to support, Your Honor, Julia Timoshenko now very clearly and clearly made it clear to everyone that in this law, which aims to privatize all state and municipal. So please, Mr. Chairman, place this bill on confirmation, and the colleague in the room please do not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u179	Thank you. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, 216 amendments refer to technical changes to the Privatisation Act. What's the point? When we change into the State Property Fund Act, we form the only legal entity that is the body of privatization. Previously, there were many regional offices of the Property Fund, each of which was a separate body of privatization. We duly duplicate these rules into the law, into the Act on Privatisation, and we say that the body of privatization is one in Ukraine, not a lot, because we've changed the Fund Act. So please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 216 amendments to the author’s language are considered editorially. At the same time, Eutuszek asks the committee to make such a decision to take an editorial view of the confirmation. You have heard the position of both the committee and the national deputy Eutushka. I'm putting 216 revisions in the editor, as it's edited, for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:45:51]] For 215 The decision is not taken. 217 revisions. Please, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, Your Honor. I repeat, it may sound like a technical amendment from the committee's mouth, but it's about state property and utility property. So in 217 amendments, which are also included, unfortunately, there is a request to put it to a vote and not to support it. It's about these things. To complete chapter I with a new paragraph of this content: "Absat the second part of article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property" (Reports of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2018 at number 12, article 68) and delete the following changes." It is these standards, to my great conviction, that are contradictory. And I'm also asking my colleagues not to support this amendment, which unfortunately is part of the committee. Mr. Chairman, please put the vote to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u183	One second. The paper you read is 218 revisions, honorary colleagues, in the final edition. Dear friends, look, let's not do this. If we have different tables, we're going to work here, I see. I propose to proceed to the vote, colleagues. Oh, is there any more? Please, Fris. [[B in m in s a l in]] He doesn't ask for it anymore. Dmitri Alexanderovich, don't worry, he doesn't ask for it anymore. Vadim Evgenovich Yvchenko and then Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u184	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, after the war.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u185	Repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u186	201th. Colleagues, after the war and after our victory, will have great opportunities for Ukraine. And those ports you're selling for 4 million, they're only going to make 4 million dollars. Those companies that are being auctioned today, OHHK, for 80 million, will generate profits, including job creation. I'm sure we're being watched by large, global corporations that are ready to bring innovation and partnership here in collaboration with Ukrainian citizens. If all goes well, what will we offer the world? And when you bring mines here, when this paper says we don't even have the right to take it from the middleman or someone who's sold it for nothing, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u187	Vadim Evgenovich, look, well, that was a little unfair right now, because I announced that Francis would report the 201 amendment, and you just took it and grabbed it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, 201 amendments had to be reported to Francis, he had to put it on confirmation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, look, it's impossible. You came up with some old charts, 201 says something else at all. Once again, there's a final table on the site. Come on, I'll give the word to Fris. [[B in m in s a l in]] 201th, then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Igor, can we put it? We know you'll initiate. Dear colleagues, yes, if I may. Igor, if I may, because I have an unlimited right to speak, 201 revisions are not exactly about this, but I also think it's unnecessary to support it. This is my position, you'll give it. Because I'm a person who's been engaged in civil rights for 25 years, and we can't put in the Civil Code a question of priority and exclusiveness just because they went through a double auction. Because I think it is contrary to the logic of civil law and the guarantee of property rights. I think that's what I was going to say, Mr. Igor. Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee now. It just wasn't fair to Mr. Igor, I took the mission.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, we have, in fact, a great deal in the hall of professional academic lawyers. We're an economic committee and we're looking at property rights. Our country is a country with the least protected property rights in Europe. We have to give additional guarantees to people who buy objects in the state, according to public electronic commerce legislation. You and I are the most transparent parliament in history, we've created a very large number of markets for electronic auctions, and they prove their effectiveness. Yesterday, under the headship of Dmitri Nataluha, a committee was held to examine the case when law enforcement officers came to the buyers of the objects and demanded that these objects be abolished, that auction results be canceled, and that these objects be taken away. This is unfair in terms of property and business rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u189	What do you mean, replicas? Did you hurt him? Huh? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, look, yes, I said the one. Okay. So let me put it this way, I'm going to give the word to Dmitri Natalus, because he's been mentioned, because he's mentioned in Fries, I'm going to give the word to Fries, and we're done here. Is that how it's gonna be? Dear friends, we're turning into something so small. Please, Dmitri Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u190	Thank you, colleagues. Let's really not turn this into a small thing. I'll just explain what this is about. The point is that we have an ideal system of courts that protects the rights of those who have dared to privatize objects, those courts in which the judges of Tandira, those courts in which the princes are engaged by delaying the results of privatization for years, if the object is not privatized by those whom they wanted to see or not by those who did not, or not by those who have paid insufficient amounts of money somewhere in Seychelles. This law cleans this up, this law says that since you won the privatisation auction, you've secured ownership and no corrupt court can take it away from you. So this is the skin that we're talking about, and we're cleaning it up. And this paper is worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u191	Thank you. The position is clear. Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u192	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. If we are civil law standards, the basic standards of existence in the state are to be placed under every particular judge -- that's a disgrace because we have a Civil Code, which. We all have to follow these standards. That's the first one. The other one. You and I have voted on the standards that 116 shouldn't change the key codes of the state. That's two. And the third. Colleagues, if the raider takes possession of the property, after that decision, the committee will never be able to take the property from this raider: neither the court nor the administrative commission, nor anyone. So I strongly ask you not to maintain this right and leave the right to property untouchable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, 201 amendments to the author's language are considered editorially. You've heard more than you should have heard, so there's a proposal to put it into this paper, where it's edited, to the judgment of the hall, to confirm the hall. Dear colleagues, please, I'm putting 201 amendments, which are dealt with in an editorial way, on confirmation. [[13:54:56]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. Julia Volodymyrna, we agreed. About what? From the procedure? Tymoshenko, out of procedure, one minute and we're going to vote. Invite people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, I would like to address you for the last time before the vote, almost before you press the button. I want to say that this is where the entire structure of the holding fund is completely destroyed. Note this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u195	Julia Volodymyrna, stop, that's not fair, you said from the procedure, Julia Volodymyrna, and you end up emotionally proving and influencing the vote when people have identified themselves. I therefore propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Property Fund for Ukraine on the optimization of the structure of the Ukrainian State Property Fund (registration No. 8250). I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:56:16]] For 231 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Alexander Sergiyovich. I pass on the word to Alexander Sergiyyovich, there will be a few more procedural things, votes, honourable colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-30-m0.u196	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, we have a request for the President, a request for a stay. That's 23 MPs. So to the President of Ukraine. Requesting a group of national MPs (Goddan, Nikita and others, 25 deputies) to assign the name Hero of Ukraine to a military officer of the Territorial Defence Force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Captain Sergey Volodymyrovich (after death). In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote a proposal for previous support of the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. We need to get 150 votes. Please vote. [[13:57:26]] For 254 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. [[13:57:48]] For 255 Decision taken. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Another request from a group of national deputies (Gerashchenko, Jonah, and others). 9 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the award of the national awards of the Ukrainian Armed Forces (death). I'm voting on a motion for previous support of the MP's request to the President of Ukraine. [[13:58:23]] For 236 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. [[13:58:43]] For 246 Decision taken. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Thank you, colleagues. There are no more voting requests. Further requests to the central authorities of the executive branch, the Cabinet of Ministers, managers, businesses, institutions, organizations, and so forth. The request by Vladimir Credenko to the Head of the State Agency for Reconstruction and Infrastructure Development of Ukraine to provide information on the use of budgetary resources and international financial assistance in 2022 for the restoration of Ukrainian infrastructure objects affected by Russian military aggression, as well as a list of damaged and damaged housing and social infrastructures in Ukraine. Vladimir Kradenka to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine regarding the official response or the State Enterprise of the Waterways of the “DROID” and the State Enterprise “Administrative of the River Ports” are subjects of the natural monopoly. Vladimir Kreidenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of Ukraine - Ministry of Community Development, Territory and Infrastructure of Ukraine for the provision of an official response to the Ministry of Community Development, Areas and Infrastructure for the protection of consumers of the State-owned Waterways Company and the State Enterprise "The Administration of Riverports" for the establishment of tariffs for specialized services provided on inland waterways by natural monopolies. Vitalia Vojciekhowski to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the Possible Acquisition of Money from the State Budget Tkachenk Yuri Olegovich, together with the officials of the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, who are figures in criminal conduct No. 62021100030000017 of May 13, 2021. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head for providing information on the use of funds by the local targeted National Resistance Program for 2022-2024, approved by the decision of the Umman City Council of February 25, 2022 No. 1-34/8. Anton Yatzenka to the head of the Palań Rural Council of the Cherka district district for the provision of information on the balance sheet of the main water well located opposite the house: the Protectors Street, 64, the village of Berestovec, the Uman district of Cherkas region. Vladimir Kradenka to the Head of the State Security Service of Ukraine for the provision of information on wages and payments for the intensity of work and for the award of the executive composition of the Ukrainian State Security Service for transport security and the management of public oversight (control) departments in every area of Ukraine, as well as for the provision of copies of court decisions and orders for the appointment of the holders (car carriers) to the Ukrainian State Security Service for transport and its territorial authorities. Alexander Horobec to the Irpine City Head on providing information on the financial and economic activities of the executive bodies of the Irpine City Council of the Kyiv Region and municipal enterprises subordinated to the Irpine City Council. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for the provision of information and copies of documents on the construction, land management, municipal property and building control of the Ummansk City Council for the establishment of fixed temporary facilities, for the conduct of entrepreneurial activities at: Pushkin Street, Kramarenka Street, Demutsky, East, Volodymira Monamaha, Umani, Uman district of Cherkas region for the period from February 24, 2022 to today. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head on the provision of information and copies of documents regarding the activities of officials and officials of the utility "Umánsk Municipal Guard" of the Uman City Council during January/May 2022. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head on the provision of information and copies of documents regarding the activities of officials of the Umman City Council during January and May 2022. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv District Military Administration on the facts of violations of current legislation in the environmental field of a private enterprise in the Brodwig territorial community. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Jonah, and others) A total of 9 deputies) to Ukraine’s Defence Minister for the award of the National Military Service Award for Ukraine’s Armed Forces (Death). Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kabanova, Kasaya) to the head of the Tokmatka City Military Administration of the Pologow Region of Zaporozhi district for information on the extent of humanitarian aid that has reached the Tokmak City Military Administration. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kabanova, Kasaya) to the head of the Tokmatka City Military Administration of the Pologov Region of Zaporozhi district for information on organizational and legal principles for the functioning of the humanitarian headquarters established by the Tokmat city military administration. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kabanova, Kasaya) to the head of the Tokmak City Military Administration of the Pologow Region of Zaporozhye district for information on the scope of assistance to the defence and security forces of Ukraine provided by the Tokmak City Military Administration. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kabanova, Kasaya) to the head of the Tokmatka City Military Administration of the Pologow Region of Zaporozhye district for information on the distribution of humanitarian aid that has reached the Tokmak City Military Administration. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kabanova, Kasaya) to the head of the Tokmatka City Military Administration of the Pologna Region of Zaporozhi district for information on the amount of assistance provided by the Tokmak City Military Administration to the families of military personnel. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kabanova, Kasaya) under the executive responsibility of the Head of the National Tax Service of Ukraine for information on the volume and structure of the revenues received by the Tokmaka City Military Administration. The questions are over for today. We also have information about the creation of two interfractional MPs. Thus, according to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional "Children of Ukraine". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Paul Mikolaiovich Suska, was elected head of this association. Welcome, Paul Mikolaiovich, thank you for everything you do for Ukrainian children. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth interfractional parliamentary association "Ukraine-Jordan Hashimite Kingdom, Friendship and Partnership". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Kovalova, was elected head of this association. Welcome. Dear colleagues, yes, let's move on to the next bill. Bill No. 5322 on amending certain Ukrainian laws on prevention of misuse in wholesale energy markets. But since there is no potential in the room, the day - to - day issues have been discussed. Thank you all for your effective work. I announce a recess in our plenary session. The time and place of its continuation will be notified to you in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. Take care of yourself. Together to victory. We believe in the power of defense of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
