ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Honourable National Deputies, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and Minister of Energy of Ukraine Herman Valeriyovich Galuchenko participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome a colleague. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in conditions of martial law" today we continue our plenary session. I note that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its passage, the beginning and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to abide by the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is the twentieth month of our nation's heroic opposition to the widespread criminal aggression of the Russian Federation. No time goes by without massive rocket attacks and attacks by the racists of our country. Yesterday and today, a terrorist state carried out a series of treacherous terrorist acts, kissing civilian objects in Kharkishte, which resulted in the death of more than 50 of our compatriots. We express our heartfelt sympathy to all family members and relatives of innocently murdered Ukrainians and wish the injured to recover as soon as possible. We assure you that all those involved in these and other crimes against Ukraine will surely be found and held accountable. Our heroic defence forces have purposely continued to kick Russian invaders out of occupied positions, methodically defusing enemy logistics, and targeting enemy command points. Please pay tribute to the moment of silence to all the soldiers who have laid down their lives as the sovereign democratic European country of all the innocent victims of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Honourable National Deputies, according to the approved Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, today's "hour of questions to the Government" is being held. The Conciliation Council agreed on the topic of "hours of questions to the Government": at the suggestion of MP factions and groups, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today will answer questions about Ukraine's energy security under the conditions of full-scale aggression by the Russian Federation and the state's readiness for the heating season. The Conciliation Council made a proposal for the next procedure for conducting an hour of questions to the Government. A report from the Prime Minister of Ukraine – within 20 minutes, a report from the designated topic of the Ukrainian Energy Minister – within 10 minutes, responses from members of the Cabinet of Ministers to questions of the MPs and groups from a specific topic – within 50 minutes, responses from members of the government to questions from Ukrainian national deputies from a specific topic – up to 40 minutes (i.e. one minute for each question and up to 2 minutes for an answer to it). So 120 minutes, 2 hours of everything. Dear colleagues, there are no other suggestions. None. Then we'll follow the consonant. Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u2	Thank you, Mr. Head. Indeed, such arrangements were reached today at the Conciliation Council. Along with that, the Conciliation Council also discussed yesterday, when, as you know, 23 hours of debate went by, very interesting, by the way, amendments to the 2023 budget. Our faction publicly appeals to you to provide a transcript of today’s Conciliation Council, where threats were made by our faction in connection with yesterday’s consideration of amendments to the debates and insults, including the participation of the leaders of the majority faction by the Russian mat. And we also inform a colleague that, in principle, we will now record all the meetings of the Conciliation Council so that, as always, even in the days of Yanukovic, these conciliatory councils would be public and voters could know what they were talking about. We also ask that all leadership be present at the conciliatory councils and that we can organize the work of Parliament properly. Because yesterday the apparatus was coming home.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u3	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Once again, of those present, no one has heard from a mother. And the days of Yanukovich, you remember them, yes. Let's move on, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, let's move on to an hour of questions to the government. Mr. Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, Prime Minister of Ukraine, is invited to the rostrum for the report. Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u4	Your Honor, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, the Honorable Vice Speakers! Ladies and gentlemen, Ukrainians and Ukrainians! I welcome your initiative to restore the traditional format of communication between government officials and parliamentarians directly in the parliamentary session room. It's important for the active interaction of the executive and legislative branches of government, it's important for responding to the challenges of war, for today's mass of challenges is facing the state. Today, I'm going to take a close look at the main ones. The first challenge is financial stability. For 19 months of full - scale war, the state has maintained macrofinancial stability. This is a joint result of the work of the President, of Parliament, of the government, of Natzbank, of the Ukrainian business, which is the result of the support of our allies and partners. I sincerely thanked all who work for Ukraine and for our victory. Since the beginning of the Russian invasion, Ukraine has involved nearly $65 billion in partner assistance in the form of loans and grants. Of these, 32.6 billion were involved in 2023, primarily from the European Union, the United States, the International Monetary Fund, Canada, Japan, and our other partners and allies. In general, this year we plan to raise $42 billion in macro-financial and partner assistance in the form of cheap long-term loans and grants. Ukraine’s international reserves now make up more than $40 billion, the equivalent, is the largest indicator during independence. Eight months later, inflation dropped from 26.6 percent to 8.6 percent. This indicates that we are out of economic turbulence and can count on gradual recovery, economic recovery. The government provides stable funding for all budget expenditure. From the general budget, we spend more than 40 percent on military and budget work. Nearly 25 percent pay for goods and services, including the purchase of technology, weapons, ammunition, and equipment for our defenders. More than 18 percent go to social pensions and assistance, and more than 5 percent are transfers to local budgets. We have an understanding of how to fund key costs next year, of course, we will need your help. Like this year, in 2024 we're going to need strong financial support from partners, or 42 billion dollars. That's a lot of money, but it only includes critical budget expenditure, I'm now talking about direct budget funding. For specific sources of revenue, we expect $18 billion from the European Union. To this end, we are working together with the European Commission to prepare Ukraine’s plan under the Ukraine Facility for a total of 50 billion euros, for 4 years. Thank you to the European Parliament, which has already endorsed this initiative. We're planning to get about 12 billion from the United States. We are working on the constant two-party support of our strategic partner. There are also multi-year programs from Japan, from Norway to 5.5 billion dollars and 7.5 billion dollars respectively. Some of these funds will be included next year. Let me remind you that Ukraine also has support as a four-year IMF programme of $15.6 billion and is working with other allies and international financial organizations. To sum up the financial bloc, I want to thank the MPs for their effective cooperation. We're counting on the support of the 2024 budget project. The second key challenge for the state is to provide security and defence forces and develop our military-industrial complex. We all realize that now war is not a sprint marathon, so we need to be persistent, stable, ready for a long-term fight. Ukraine appreciates and thanks all its partners for their military support, especially the strong contribution of the United States and the European Union, nearly $44 billion and 25 million euros respectively. At the same time, Ukraine is working to strengthen its own defence capabilities. In 2023, defense spending will cost more than half of all government spending. In January and August, nearly 317 billion dollars were spent on the purchase of technology, weapons, ammunition, personal protective equipment, fuel, and food for our security and defense forces. We have radically changed our approach to the development of the Ukrainian military and industrial complex. A new company based on Ucroborprom has been established, in principle, according to modern corporate governance standards. They've made a bet on new design, technology, technology transfer, a special focus on drones that determine the nature of modern war. They created fast trek to quickly import drones into Ukraine and assemble them. The government has expanded the list of military supplies and dual-use items that can be imported without permission from the Export Control Authority to speed up these processes. Bureaucrat procedures have been simplified for the defence purchases of Ukrainian drones. The drone's path from development to purchase is now as short as possible. During the year, drone production grew a hundredfold. More than two hundred Ukrainian companies were involved in the development of drones. In 2024, Ukrainian GDP will have more resources, production defence costs will increase by 7 times, to 55.8 billion dollars. In addition, we have foreseen over 48 billion dollars to fill and expand the army of drones, the Ukrainian army of drones. The enemy will feel even more the power and power of our weapons. The third challenge we face today is to meet the social obligations of the Ukrainians. The war dramatically exacerbated poverty, increased the number of internally displaced persons to nearly 5 million, and changed the veteran environment. In eight months of the current year, we spent 346.5 billion dollars from the general social security budget -- over 18 percent of all expenses, 181 billion of them on pensions and over 117 billion -- on various forms of assistance. At the same time, we are changing the system, making it more effective and effective, implementing a new philosophy of social policy, including centralizing social benefits through the Ukrainian Pension Fund. It's digitized. The only information system in the social sphere has been created that will unite all the registers. This simplifies bureaucratic procedures and makes the process of providing social support more transparent and understandable to our citizens. More than 30 types of social assistance and services 18 are already digitized, and the rest are already being prepared for digitization. We apply the principle that money follows a person. So the money is allocated to give a service to a particular person. This allows for more efficient use of budgetary resources. For the first time in the social sphere, it was tested on the eHealth project, and it was a mechanism to pay for the health and rest of children with disabilities and children with multiple childhood families. Travel costs are paid directly to parents, and they choose a bet where their child will rest and be healed. We're going to extend this principle to support veterans, multi-child families, VPOs and other socially vulnerable categories. We plan to create a competitive market for social services, buy them as the only central buyer, and provide services to individuals, public organizations and communities themselves. Also in plans to implement the principle of guaranteed basic social assistance. It will depend on income levels and will be given the most vulnerable categories of the population. We're reforming the pension system. First of all, let's put in a ball system for a solidarity pension. The number of points will depend on how much money is paid as a contribution for a specific month compared to the average wage in Ukraine at the time when a person worked. Balls will miss all the years of payment. The cost of one ball will increase annually according to inflation and the increase in average wages. As a result, the amount of the pension will depend clearly on how much money a person has paid as a contribution and how many years he has worked for. A particular direction is that of veteran politics. Its goal is to adapt the defenders to peaceful life, to civilian life, to open up a wide range of possibilities for veterans, to preserve the memory of their feat before their offspring. Its key elements are the reform of the VLC, the reform of the MSC to create a fast, inclusive and transparent system without bureaucracy and corruption. The second is the Institute of Assistant Veterans. It will help with employment, education, social protection, rehabilitation. These are service offices for veterans in the regional military administrations to coordinate the implementation of state, regional and local support programmes. Next. Grants for the development of veteran business under the eRobot program. Already 47 million dollars have been paid as grants to veterans and their families. We're going to take the indicator when thousands of veterans have their own business. In order to successfully rehabilitate, we are preparing the discovery of modern rehabilitation centres across Ukraine, and we are now increasing the state order for rehabilitators. Another element of the new veteran policy is affordable housing. We've expanded the eOsela mortgage program, now a 7 percent mortgage available to war veterans and members of their families. Veterans are also high-priority participants in the program eReparation - compensation for damaged and destroyed by the Russians. Next. The eternal memory of the fallen warriors These are military memorials, these are street names, these are memorial signs, and most importantly this is the National Military Memorial Cemetery where they bury heroes who have given their lives for Ukraine since 2014. The government has adopted a decision to expedite its design and land allocation in the territory of the Hutten community in the region of Kiev. There's an intercom working group that coordinates the process. We're in the design phase. For the Ministry of Veterans, one of the key tasks and requirements is to open this complex first by the end of the year. For next year's funding. In the 2024 State Budget Project, nearly 469 billion dollars were earmarked for social policy. That's plus 5 percent before they had this year. Of these, nearly 272 billion -- pensioned, over 136 billion dollars -- to help, almost 50 billion dollars -- on benefits and subsidies and 5.8 billion dollars -- to protect people with disabilities. The funding of veteran programs will double in 2024. In total, 14.3 billion dollars are expenses on housing, on all kinds of rehabilitation, on the work of veteran assistants, on setting up the National Military Memorial Cemetery. One of the main challenges and focus is energy, the heating season. Russia had already launched attacks on energy infrastructure, and we understood it and we were preparing for it. Winter will be difficult, attacks will be complex in terms of objectives, not just substations or TECs. What's done? First of all, we have substantially strengthened our air defence system. Last year we didn't have any Western complex, today we have Patriots, Nasamas, Iris-T, Kratali, Gepardi, Samp-T and many other anti-air defence systems. We're constantly working with partners to increase the number of systems, and the main thing is to provide enough rockets for these systems. During more than a year and a half of the war, Russia fired a large number of its winged and ballistic missiles, but it must be understood that these missiles did not end and would not end in the near future. So one of the main vectors of our work, along with the President's Office, the diplomats, you -- our parliamentarians -- is the closure of the supply of electronics and the components needed to produce these missiles and drones in Russia. A serious threat remains the kamikaze drones, the Shahedes that Russian military forces receive on a permanent basis. In September we saw this in their numbers, the level of attack was on record. We're constantly increasing the level of resistance to this threat. Also, the President of Ukraine now, yesterday, was in Spain, where important arrangements in this direction were also reached. Regarding our energy repair campaign, the preparation of the infrastructure for the heating season will be detailed by Energy Minister Herman Valerijovich Galuchenko. Another big challenge is to implement a quick recovery program. Early in the year, we identified five priorities: energy, housing, people, critical and social infrastructure, humanitarian exchange, and economic recovery. A multilateral donor coordination platform for Ukraine was reformatted. The platform board includes our allies from the G7 and the European Union. One of the main tasks of the platform this year and next year is to finance reconstruction projects. Ukraine’s rapid reconstruction needs remain at about $15 billion. This year, only a fraction of these needs have been funded, and the rest of the costs have passed by 2024. In 2023, Ukraine allocated 62.3 billion dollars from the Fund for the Elimination of the Effects of Armed Aggression to various programs for the restoration of 62.3 billion dollars, and 18.9 billion dollars went to work on energy objects. With regard to the restoration of critical infrastructure, the local budgets have been allocated 11.4 billion dollars for the implementation of projects on social and housing facilities, 8.5 billion dollars for the construction of water lines to provide water after the attack on Kakhovska GEZ, 3.6 billion for the construction and rehabilitation of infrastructure, housing and public purpose, public buildings, 3.3 billion for the experimental project of the comprehensive reconstruction of six population sites, namely, Borodjanka and Moscjan in the Kyiv region, Tristan in the Sumski district, Possat-Pokrovsk in the Hersonian region, Circus in Kharkishte, Jadne in Montenegro. We're actively implementing the eRestoration programme, which is to repair and rehabilitate our people, set aside 4.4 billion dollars, already agreed to pay for 16,000 Ukrainian families to repair their own homes. These are the target costs of up to 500,000 dollars. Right now we're running the second component of the program -- these are residence certificates for those whose housing is completely destroyed, and they can be used in November. The third component is compensation to those who have made repairs at their own expense, thanks to Parliament for adopting the changes. And I'm counting on us to get this element real quick. Humanitarian exchange. According to the land exchange plan, 470,000 hectares should be examined in the area of depreciated land, now we're going to take about half of that figure, we're going to be accelerating in the 24-year hold-budget project for the first time, we've put 2 billion dollars into humanitarian exchange for this purpose. We're launching the humanitarian exchange services market through ProZorro, and the landowners will be able through ProZorro to purchase demining services from official licensed operators. The state will continue to compensate, in whole or in part, for costs, and this will speed up the process of land clearance wherever possible. The pilot competition for the sale of services has already taken place in Žitomirščina, and we are soon planning to hold a major international donor conference for the humanitarian exchange of Ukraine in Croatia, and we are planning to engage additional financial resources from various countries, donors and organizations. I know there's a question about the fund for the elimination of the consequences of armed aggression, so I'll tell you now. The following year we plan to fill it with confiscated Russian assets. Now we're actively working on the appropriate case with our partners. We also have a reserve fund of almost 45 billion dollars to finance some of the capital expenditure in both infrastructure and energy. In line with the concept of strengthening democracy, we are also preparing a single reform plan that will take into account proposals from our partners and our own work. In particular, the only reform plan will include the IMF lighthouses, the positions set out in the Association Agreement with the EU, the requirements for receiving EU macro-financial assistance, the seven recommendations of the European Commission, Ukraine's plan under the EU's Ukraine Facility programme, the recommendations for reform from the US, the anti-corruption strategy of Ukraine by 2025, the economic reforms of the World Bank. All these plans today in the work of the government, we will unite them, including new proposals, into a single document. This is a work plan, but it's not just a government job. We also call for parliament, law enforcement agencies, anti-corruption bodies, independent experts, civil society to participate in development and finalization. Finally. Thankful to all parliamentarians for their work, constant coordination, interaction, support. In the last 18 months, we have faced many challenges together. We have formed a foundation for our victory, for our restoration, for our European future. We have to stay coordinated, reject contradictions, work for victory as the only team in Ukraine. Mr. Head, the Vice-Spyers, the country's distinguished national deputies, thank you for your work, for your state position. And in these difficult times for our nation, it is more important for us than ever to be alone, for only unity will shape our way to victory. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u5	Heroic glory! Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Please take your place. Dear National Deputies, Minister of Energy of Ukraine Herman Valeriyovich Galuchenko is invited to report to the rostrum. Please, Herman Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u6	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! With regard to preparation for the next heating season. Of course, the challenges are enormous, and the challenges are actually in the very attacks that Russia will obviously continue to systematically and masseuse on our energy system. Regarding the readiness of the energy system itself, I want such a general date of understanding that we will be fully prepared both in terms of electricity generation and in terms of electricity transmission and the corresponding resources for the heating season. This means that the generation will fully ensure consumption at the right level, as well as the resources needed for the generation of appropriate electricity, and are and will be provided. More than a few figures. First, let's start with the gas. First, I want to thank the Supreme Council for the law that allowed us to implement European legislation in terms of the certification of Ukraine's gas shelters. And it's actually a very big event today that shows that even during the war today, foreign companies began to store gas in Ukrainian vaults. This was not the case in the previous year, and this was not the case in the previous year. That is, despite military risks today, European companies are storing their gas in Ukraine. By now we have more than 2 billion cubic metres of non-resident gas, or foreign European companies, stored in Ukraine’s shelters. And according to the plans that we see, contracts made, this volume will be increased to 3 billion by winter. I mean, it's very important. First of all, it's an extra amount of physical gas that gives us the ability to balance the system. Second, it's the quantity that, if necessary, if we need an extra volume of gas, could be bought out by the State accordingly, if that's what we're talking about. Naftogaz, more specifically, if such arrangements are reached with the relevant non-residents. But what's important to us is that this total amount of gas that we're planning to get out of, right now it's 15.6 billion cubic meters of gas in our landfills, that's when we planned 14.7 that we were counting on how much gas we need, including the possibility of generating electricity using gas. Because, unfortunately, this is what we went through last year when the Russians fired on certain fuel supply routes, and we had no other option than to generate electricity in the interests of national security using the gas. And in winter, we see that the corresponding volume is going to be about 16.5 billion cubic meters of gas. That's more than we had last year. Last year, I want to remind you, we started off with a figure of 14.5 billion cubes. So it's very important. Again, it is equally important that even in the face of war, there is confidence in Ukraine and in our shelters foreign companies continue to instill gas. As far as coal is concerned. Today we have 1.3 million. 1 million 300,000 tons of coal in warehouses in the appropriate generating companies, about 90,000 tons in our mine warehouses, and accordingly we control the situation with the need to supply it stable during the heating season. So far, the key companies that use coal for generation have made the corresponding contracts, and so far we have already delivered to Ukraine, and the first part of the shipment of imported coal has arrived in order to stabilize and guarantee the work of the generating equipment. What is essential is certainly a repair campaign. Indeed, this year the scale of such a repair campaign was never in Ukraine. Of course, once again, it's the consequences of Russian energy strikes, obviously, but we've done the right thing for all companies without exception, for all kinds of generations to be as ready as possible to go through the heating season. So what kind of plans do we have by generation, now, in more detail. So, first of all, we're going to start with an atomic generation, which even today, at the loss of the Opposition Nuclear Station in our system, and today, I want to remind you that it's Ukraine that provides electricity to work and maintain security systems at the station, and that's 70 megawatts of electricity, we're today, still an atomic generation, it's a key, basic and it's producing more than 50 percent of the country's electricity. So in the corresponding plans that we're doing exactly what we're going to do, we're going to have all of the nine blocks that are in the controlled Ukraine of the territory, and over the heating season, they're going to be working at full capacity. So in this respect, it's a basic generation, really, that over the last winter really helped us even with massive rocket strikes and massive energy shocks to get through and stabilize the production of electricity itself. So what's more, it's an important event, and it's a really historic event, and for the first time, together with our American partners, Westinghouse has developed a new fuel for a VVR-440-type reactor. And now this fuel is already loaded into the Equinox block, and this will ensure that this type of equipment is stable. What's important is that before this equipment was manufactured exclusively by Rosatome and the Russians had a 100% monopoly on the production of this equipment in general. Thanks to our cooperation with Westinghouse today, the five countries that still had a monopoly on Russia’s supply of this type of fuel no longer exist, and the corresponding contracts are already in place to move Russians out of the market to suit their nuclear fuel status. Regarding the heat generation, we're also going to have the largest repair campaign, it's still going on, and some types of work will be going on during the heating season. But we're going to go out on 4.5 gigawatts, which, if necessary, the heat generation will be ready to go into the energy system. This amount of generation, it predicts a certain reserve for the system. Of course, the heat generation, unfortunately, has suffered probably the biggest attacks during the heating season of the past, and therefore, of course, the amount of work being done there is probably the largest of all kinds of generations. Similarly, hydro, which generation was the object of such systematic enemy attacks during the last winter. So today, we're also moving completely in recovery plans and we're going to go out for more than two gigawatts of power. And the key is that the system will be able to fully operate the water that will be available during the heating season in order to generate electricity. What's important is that in addition to repairing the planned ones that are being done in all kinds of generations, we planned to add 1.7 gigawatts to the system in an additional way. So these are the blocks that were destroyed almost entirely that were actually being restored. And so today, with 1.7 gigawatts already added 1.5, and we basically see by all plans and jobs that this is going to be fully implemented, this is our plan for further restoration of 1.7 gigawatts that are going to add to our energy system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u7	Thank you, Herman Valeriovich. Please take your place. Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to questions from a specific subject to members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from MP factions and groups. We at the Conciliation Council agreed that questions of MP factions and groups would be asked in a circle in this order: first the MP faction "Serve of the People", question, then "European Solidarity", "Fatherhood", "Voice", "For the Future", "Trust", "Platform for Life and Peace", "Recovery of Ukraine". If the time is right, the circle will begin again. This takes up to 50 minutes. Please, before we put on the counter, I ask the factions and groups to sign up, but the queue will be the one I said. Please record the factions and groups that will be speaking, but in the queues that I have sounded. I want to see which one of you is speaking, sign up. Dear colleagues, sign up, then I'll give you my word, she'll pass it on to you. Who am I going to ask? Thank you. Dear colleagues, First Servant of the People. Pavluk Mikola Vasilovich, to whom do you give the word of the faction, will you be? I remind you that you can ask questions. One second, take your time. The question needs to be asked on the subject of the report on energy security. Please, Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u8	Gerus could be given the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u9	The word is given to Gerus Andrija Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u10	We are pleased to welcome the Prime Minister and Minister of Energy. And it's a good thing we're having this debate again. I wanted to ask you about the projects that we are implementing together with our European partners. There's a project called "The Flash of Hope" when Ukraine was handing over solar panels from the European Union, the European Commission, and Italy was handing us these panels. And they have to go to the hospital: 24 hospitals in the Gitomir region, Kiev, Volinsky, Odessa, and Kiev have to receive autonomous power from these solar power stations that will be installed on the roofs. I actually wanted to ask what the status of this is, if all the equipment is needed, if those panels are already here, and when the hospitals can finally get this alternative green power source. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u11	Thank you for asking, Your Honor Andrew Mikhailovich. In fact, these panels are currently scheduled to be supplied. Because that was really what the Italian company Enel was doing, but there was a little bit of a delay in making a contract between the Italian company and the European Commission. They just finished it, and that's what it's going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u13	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u14	Please, Hero Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u15	Thank you, distinguished officials. Democracy is very important in the concept of stability, and they finally returned to the demand of European Solidarity, an hour of questions to the government. The most important questions we have are the protection of our military personnel. The Supreme Council passed a law on payment to wounded instructors, cadets, versers, and other categories of the population. And unfortunately, the government for four months was unable to draw up legal acts, and so far no such payments have been made. Will these payments be made in October, including the month of June? That's the first one. The other one. How can a warlord 6 percent in the 24-year budget cut spending on the Ministry of Defence? And the third. We're shocked by your position on the National Memorial Cemetery. At first you promised the families of the military that it would be the Bull, and you held the appropriate hearings, and the annotate, and today you're talking about another completely, not taking into account the opinion of the families of the military. How can you do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, before I answer that question, I will remind all members of factions and groups that the topic of today's "hour of questions to the government" is Ukraine's energy security. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u17	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear National Deputies! With regard to all payments to the military, the government will make them, will make them. All legislative acts adopted by Parliament have been processed, all "normatisation" has been made and payments are made in full and in full commitment by the State of Ukraine to our defenders and protectors in the security and defence sector. With regard to spending on the security and defence sectors for the following year, they are increasing compared to the planned budget in 2023. But, as you know, this year we hope that Parliament will vote for changes to the budget and will still allow our defenders to receive their wages in time for both October and November and December. We need more than 300 billion dollars added to the budget in 2023. Within 2024, all necessary security and defence costs will be initiated by the government. Unless there is a shortage of the budget that has been put into the budget plan today, which has been submitted to Parliament. Therefore, if necessary, we will take the initiative of Parliament to finance the security and defence sectors. We are fully aware and aware that the financing of our Armed Forces, our military, security and defence sectors during the war is number one priority, and we are working on it to provide 100 percent of the security and defence sector needs. Regarding the military memorial cemetery, I will be grateful for the support of the relevant bill in order to begin the construction of this memorial complex as soon as possible and to provide families with the opportunity to bury their loved ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, "Fatherland", Krulko Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u19	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, as you know, the leader of our faction, Yulia Timoshenko, has led a temporary commission of inquiry that deals with hospital issues. The question is this: Please tell us how ready the hospital is today, those hospitals that are in the foreground until the heating season? Because what you can see during the tens and tens of hospitals on the front desk is not that the equipment and medicines are not even wooded so that they can burn down their premises. Please answer that question. And the second. The Law on the State Budget for 2023 changed the amendment of Yulia Timoshenko to finance the treatment of our wounded in hospitals with Y3 coefficients. Please take this under personal control, implementation of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u20	I'll be grateful if you can name very specifically where there are no front-end hospitals where there was a leader of your faction at the front-line hospital. And you'll give us a clear list, of course we'll pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u21	Thank you. Please welcome to the words of Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Inni Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u23	Please, Inna Romanovna Sosun.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u24	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. A few questions, first of all, to the Prime Minister. Mr. Dennis, there was a competition for the members of the NCREKP on 24 May. For 10 days the government had to approve one of the two winners. This decision is not made today. Please explain when it will be accepted. The second question concerns the closure of an energy strategy. Why is an energy strategy a secret document? And what investors need to focus on is an energy strategy, which is a secret document, or a presentation of reconstruction plans that was made in London during the conference. Because the differences between the strategy of that presentation are huge. Question three. Maybe the Minister of Energy will tell. Please describe the date on which the construction costs were recalculated on the substations according to Ukrenergo and the reconstruction agency? The date tells us when these payments were.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u25	The first part of your question, I'm working with the secretariat when the papers were filed, let's see how all the procedures went. We will return to you with an answer. I'll ask the Minister of Energy to answer the rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u26	Thank you for asking. In terms of strategy, in fact, if you look at the slides that were, or the presentation that was presented in London, it was based on strategy. But, look, there was a messenger, we talked about it because we, I took part in the presentation of this strategy. We said that we have this calculation in terms of strategy, but Ukraine has the potential, especially those possibilities -- that the increase in hydrogen production there was significant. And the second question is green metallurgy. That's what we said, if it's going to be Europe, and today if you take the European hydrogen strategy, they see that they need to import about 10 million tons of hydrogen. That's why we said that if there's a need for Europe to actually import hydrogen in such numbers, Ukraine, it's not, it's not, we don't have strategies in this range, that's exactly what you're saying. But the question is that we showed that Ukraine has potential because in the strategy we talked about that we could export about 1 million tons to Europe. And in the presentation, we said that if Europe needed this, we could increase it to 3.5 million tons.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, "For the Future", Konstankevich Irina Miroslavovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u28	Irina Konstankevich, "To the Future." Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I want to thank you for your statement and for hearing about the main concepts planned for the 24th year, including support for critical and humanitarian infrastructure. And in the context of that, I'm asking you a question. Today, a state-owned company called Wolinthorf is being auctioned. This is the last enterprise to provide a torribriquet to the social sector of Volina: hospitals, schools, gardens. What you see is what's going to happen with areas that don't have gas and they don't burn except thorphobriquets, because the same Rønethorf company has been privatized and the tariffs on this fuel have already been tripled. What kind of energy security are we talking about if there's a problem with heating for almost a thousand citizens who live in the Volino-Polish.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u29	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Our nation's strategy is to reduce the role of the state in the economy, to reduce the level of corruption in the government sector, according to the Cabinet of Ministers, even during the war, some 2,000 200 state-owned enterprises were transferred to the State Property Fund for further privatization, for order-making, for the withdrawal of enterprise data in most of the bankruptcy and from difficult crises. Of course, there is a list, approved by Parliament, of critical infrastructure enterprises, of them about 200, which are not privatized and will remain under the authority of the State, but will be followed by a corporate procedure, i.e. they will share, create appropriate supervisory boards to, again, reduce the influence, the political influence of the State on the critical infrastructure enterprise. All the rest of the state's enterprises will be privatized, given the order, managed by private business. It's our path to Europe, it's our commitment, it's an improvement in the standard of living for our citizens, it's an improvement in the level of economic growth for our nation. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u30	Thank you. Please, by "Trust" Bakunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Head, Paul Bakunets, the "Trust" MP. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, of course, it's good that we've restored you've agreed to this "hour of questions to the government." And I'm going to let you know that the government bill is about to take the PDF from the military to the local communities. And we agree that most definitely we need ammunition for a Ukrainian soldier, but there are communities in Ukraine that have military towns that have already lived with PDF from military, such as Right, like Yavorov, like Mirgrod and many others. So I want you to make sure that if you do, unfortunately, it happens that the military will be able to take out of the local budget that next year you will be able to help with at least passing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. It's really, really important to local communities, we don't underestimate its importance. Clearly, for all of us today, victory in this war is a priority for our nation. To do that, we need to provide our own production. We see that in the world, stockpiles of so - called Soviet technology and ammunition are exhausted. And accordingly we have to stock up our weapons on our own and actually develop our industrial manufacturing complex, we have to produce as many of our own drones as possible. That's what we're talking about. 100 billion dollars. And this is the PDF, which the government budget has been paying to local communities since the beginning of the full-scale war. Today, there are 216 billion dollars left in the accounts of local communities, even more. We increase the budgets of local communities by 75 billion compared to 2021, we leave all the donations in local communities. And the Ministry of Finance, I believe, yesterday the Minister of Finance, speaking before Parliament, guarantees that the budget of each community will not be lower in 2021. That is, if there were a certain level of tax revenue in 2021 in the cities of Yavorów or other communities mentioned by you, it would be preserved and guaranteed by this budget in 2024 not less than 2021. Where frontal communities, military communities, where budget losses are much higher, and needs have increased because of the war, there will be additional grants that will equalize their needs. Thank you again for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u33	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Please, from "The Platform for Life and Peace" Makarenko Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u34	Mr. Chairman, please give the floor to Deputy Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u35	Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u36	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The first question to the Energy Minister regarding the energy collapse is not to be afraid of that word. Our representatives of our parliamentary group have made proposals on the relationship between the participants in the energy market. Please indicate when and in what terms can the mechanism be integrated, taking into account the start of the heating season and, again, the energy collapse? The other one. This is about the tariff-subsidy context, I can't help but ask, given the fact that in the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine next year you're reducing the amount of subsidies from 37 billion to 33 billion dollars, and we're increasing the electricity tariff, more specifically, it's already increased from 1 December 44 to 1 December 64. How will you settle this issue, given the fact that, yes, we have a certain verification, the number of recipients of subsidies has decreased, but that. With an increase of 83 percent, we're downsizing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. In fact, the question of how things work out in the market is, of course, complex and complex. The complexity of this issue is primarily due to war in fact. And, indeed, the debts were appropriate, but over the entire period, we also had constant interlinkages between market participants. The key is the burden on two companies that carry PSOs and have the biggest financial burden, the company Energoat and the company Ukrhydroenergo. As of September, it was through a tariff decision that we were able to fully stabilize the financial situation. All accounts for today for the corresponding September service are 100 percent. But of course, we're ready to process any proposal for a situation in general, a financial situation in the market. Regarding subsidies, the Prime Minister has just called, Denis Anatoliyovich called this figure, it's 50 billion dollars that are provided for in the grant budget accordingly, including the issues that you're talking about. And it is estimated that the cost will be sufficient to meet the needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, "Ukrainian Remembrance."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u39	Dear Head, please pass the word to the colleague Eugen Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u40	Eugene Shevchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u41	I'm asking for the attention of the people's deputies. I'm going to have a question about us, the work of Parliament. Dennis Anatolyovich, good afternoon. I'm happy to welcome you to the hall. I have a simple question about a decision that prohibits members from going abroad. There are only elected deputies who can do this. The next question. All Ukrainians understand that energy security, economic security, military security now depends on whether our partners help us or not. We have a pressing question in Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, and the United States. Without parliamentary diplomacy, you won't get anything, because this money is given by parliaments, not presidents. Why did you cut us off? We've been made into a nursery. Everyone wants us to go to the war front because we're idle sitting here. When are we going to work as parliamentarians for real? Thank you. Give me an answer. And there's more. Constitutionally, this decision does not correspond to reality. The deputy should be banned in the Supreme Council, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. We did not forbid the deputies, the Ukrainian national deputies, from leaving Ukraine. As far as I know, all national MPs have the opportunity to travel in agreement with the Chief of the Supreme Council, with appropriate directives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, let's say what I said yesterday is a culture to ask questions and there's a culture to listen to. Really? Let's move on. Dear colleagues, we have completed our first cycle. Please, I'm asking respectable factions and groups to sign up for the second cycle of factions and groups. But we'll set it in the same order. Please register with factions and groups. Please, the "Slut of the People" faction, Kozir Sergey Viacheslavovich, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u44	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister! I am very glad that the very question to the government has been raised. As a representative of Hersonian, I have three questions for you. First. We're on our way to the heating season, a Kabmin grant to support the repossessed fuel fields. But the money allocated by Kabmin is not enough for the entire heating season. This is the first time. And secondly, it's October of the month, but the purchase is not yet under way. So I want to know why and what kind of government control. The second question. This is a matter of eliminating the consequences of the destruction of Kahovsky GES. The government has allocated funds to provide drinking water to these areas, but today we see that these funds are not yet in use, and those wells in places where it is possible in a safe way are also not yet done. And the third question. I'd like to draw your attention to the humanitarian exchange that you're talking about, for Hersonians, it's very relevant, and without that question, it's not going to move.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u45	Government, I spoke in my speech, actually, I've allocated over 62 billion dollars for recovery from the recovery fund. Some of these funds went towards the restoration and protection of energy objects, and the rest went for the restoration of housing. Much of it, in billions of dollars, went to the reconstruction of Hersonian and Mikolayovstina after the attack on Kahovské GEZ. Regrettably, the ability of local communities to set up a commission to conduct appropriate procedures to compensate and implement these projects is not always sufficient, especially in Hersonian, because of objective circumstances, there are shootings, and there are not people in communities everywhere, and these processes are delayed for objective reasons. But all the funds are allocated, this is a special fund, they're going to be transitional for the next year. With regard to preparation for the heating season. Now there's no material at hand, but I'm convinced that the local government's answer is to share it with you. And as of today, Ukraine is practically ready, there is 97 percent readiness. Of course, in frontal areas, special attention is paid to and transporting wood where the gas is broken down, where there is a problem, there is part of the population without electricity in the Hersonian region, and there are several dozen. Unfortunately, it is impossible to recover by replacing, by firing, there we will work to provide for the appropriate humanitarian needs of the population of such places, villages, and villages. For more detailed information at the cost, we will, in particular, prepare additional information in each of the locations at your request, including from the district military administration about what is happening there. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u46	If you don't mind, I'd like to add to Herson. In fact, it's where the brigades work all the time to rebuild, it's important, it's electricity. Sadly, though, it is not that much. The exchange is very important, it really affects the speed, but what we're seeing as soon as the brigade comes out is starting to do the work, especially closer to the point, the population point that's closer to Dniper, the Russians are immediately starting to attack. Unfortunately, the energy losses in the Hersonian region are quite significant.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u47	Please, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Nina Jujanini. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u49	Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u50	First question to the Prime Minister. I want to point out that you're very inconsistent because we've been with you over the past year, I hope you're reading at least some of the answers, you've been doing a little bit of Rnethorphus, and you've stopped privatization as a very important object and the ability to provide people with peat. You've been asked questions about Wolinthorf today, you've avoided answers. I have a second question for the Minister of Energy. You've said a lot about the generation, the repairs, and so on, and we've got information from the local MPs, over 65 percent of the power stations aren't ready at all, they don't have any physical protection, or concrete shelters, or any other equipment, and it's very threatening to provide electricity throughout the system. And please tell me exactly how many billions have been allocated for physical protection and how much has been spent and why there is no protection so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u51	The first part of your question. I feel like I'm doing everything I can to keep our state in Europe, as opposed to you. And in Europe, there are no peat companies owned by the state. So I'm very much asked not to manipulate these things. I already said what we're doing with our European partners, we're reducing the role of the state in the economy, we're privatizing the largest enterprises. Accordingly, my answer is absolutely correct and is a consistent European desire, a European desire for our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u52	Thank you. Please, come on. From Fatherland, Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] And second of all, I'm sorry, part two.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u53	If you don't mind, it's the second part of the question. About the substations. We have highway stations called Ukrenergo substations, these are major substations, and we have local substations, these are substations that belong to the skynergo. They're different, they're from a hundred tenths down there. Appropriately, the work has been carried out with regard to protection. It has several elements. First. It's a passive protection system. These are locusts, runaways whose job is to protect them from splintering. And the second part is anti-drone protection, it's a more complex protection system that's also being implemented. Today it's actually not happening everywhere, but the work is going everywhere, and it's going to be done in the next week. So we have all the graphs of those kinds of jobs. If we're talking about local substations, it's definitely the responsibility of the ODS in place. We owed them the same way, and they also gave us proper work schedules for protection, especially passive protection of substations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u54	Thank you. Please, Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u55	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. First question to Mr. Prime Minister. Well, first of all, I'm going to say that with regard to the problem hospitals and hospitals, we're going to give you a list of, in our opinion, the problem. But the question is. There is now no more important problem for local governments and utilities than the so-called difference in tariffs and the debt of heat utility to NAC Naftogaz. The figure of 94 billion TKE debt before Naftogaza is a testimony to a collapse and a completely wrong model of PSO. At the same time, the government is providing a budget that cancels the draft budget, cancels the difference in tariffs absolutely, and at the same time, there is a moratorium on tariffs today. Then honestly say that the tariffs should be raised. Don't play games. And the second. Mr. Herman Galuchenko, when do we finally have to do what we have to do to put order in the coal sector and in the centrnergo?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. I'll remind you that we agreed that you would give a list of hospitals to the front desk where your faction leader was, so the question was asked, and I'm willing to answer it that way. And the second part of the question of TKE's debts to Naftogaz and your offer to raise tariffs. I would like to emphasize once again to the Ukrainian community. We will not raise tariffs until the end of this heating season, we will not even consider such issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u57	And, yes, with regard to the question of centrnergo, really, there is now something that we can say is coming true.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u58	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u59	Alexei Yuriovich! Alexy Yuriovich, look, let's get this wrong, because without the microphone, you don't sound anything but noise. Please answer, let's get an answer. Please complete your answer. Complete your answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u60	Yes, if you please. I mean, I really don't want to hide, and that's the same thing that we discussed, that really there were some problems on Centrnergo, including with the repair campaign. So today all the lines, they're fixed and they're doing the work, so we're confident that the company will be ready for the heating season.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u61	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy, Mr. Chlapuk Maksim Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "The Voice". Please, Maxim Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u62	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, thank you for coming, everything will be interesting. First. How much of this 15.6 billion gas in our gas shelters is Naftogazu, which is carrying out PSOs, and at what level is consumption expected during this heating season? Are you planning to buy gas abroad, including from nonresidents, under what scenarios? And do you put money on it? The second question is personal to the Prime Minister. Indeed, the heat tariffs will not be increased, but because the relevant law was passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine: before the state of war was completed. That's the main thing. At the same time, this law, which was drawn up from the government’s supply, provides compensation for companies for differences in tariffs. The search for the relevant sources is based on the Ministry of Finance, on the Ministry of Finance. Tell me what's going on with this. Do You Find Sources? When will you find and when will you be compensated? And one last question. What's your position on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u63	Thank you for asking. It's about gas. So I've already pointed out that today we're saving, if we're being very precise, 15 billion 536 million, that's a state of affairs for now. We plan to attach up to 16.6 billion cubic metres of gas in the winter. So today, the residents of Ukraine are 13 billion 280 million cubes, and the non-residents are 2 billion 256 million cubes. With regard to the capacity to buy gas, i.e. the possibility of importing gas, this volume is in Naftogaz, they have arrangements with a whole range of companies that are willing to sell if needed. So that's the possibility. And in principle, today's price level in the European gas market, it allows it to do so peacefully. And the resource is that the key, the resource is today. If you look at the level of filling up a shelter in Europe, it's one of the biggest in recent times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u64	Thank you for your very specific, substantive, clear and correct question. When we agreed to fix tariffs with the community, we signed a memorandum, according to the memorandum, we agreed that 4 percent of the PFCs would be left to communities to compensate these losses by setting tariffs for people. We'll keep that word. And if Parliament supports the budget next year, we also agreed to continue and leave 4 percent of the VAT, of the total VAT, of the communities. These are tens of billions of dollars that will remain in the hands of communities to support TKEs by fixing tariffs and not reaching the end of the war for the people. Thank you for this and for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u65	Thank you. Please give me your word from the "For the Future Party" group, the Shorty Annie Constantinen. Please, National Deputy Speedhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u66	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, what exactly is the State's advantage of privatizing the Trillian Spirit Plant, which consists of 101 hectares of land and more than 1,000 square feet [1,000 sq m], for 6 and a half thousand dollars? Six and a half thousand dollars. Not anymore. The other one. Why isn't the state-run Sanatorium Concha-Sasp funding our military? They're already in debt for 3 million, and they don't accept our military for treatment anymore. And a question to Mr. Galuchenko. Tell us, please, what is the situation with ZAES that we're going to get as a result, and if we know at all where it is, what the future is after we build the third and fourth blocks of the Hmělní nuclear power plant. And everyone wants to know what measures have been taken to protect the 750 and 330 transformers, especially in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. With regard to privatization. But we privatize at auctions in an open way, and in the market economy, the price of selling and buying forms a market. So the price that was created according to an open electronic auction was paid for either enterprise. That's what the State Property Fund does, not Kabmin, I'll remind you that, and the procedure is completely open. Regarding any sanatorium that is willing to provide rehabilitation services to our military or veterans. Obviously, services should be of good quality and meet a certain level of requirements so that NSOs can compensate for this service and pay for the provision. I can't tell you right now if they're willing to provide such services so that it's good for the military. Therefore, if you ask, the Minister of Health and I will see if we are ready for those or other facilities to provide an appropriate level of quality of service for the military. Then the NHRI will take them into its own network for payment. The third part will be handed over to the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. Well, you know, the situation at the Zaporez station is actually very difficult. And that's what we're talking about on all the pitches with all the partners. If summed up, equipment degradation is taking place because the station has been out of work for more than a year, and all of this affects security systems accordingly. What, as it were, is positive? Last week, Ukraine was elected to the MAGATE Governing Council, and this will allow us to now have a direct voice just as a member of the Council of Heads of State and raise questions to a new level -- the issue of the Opposition Atomic Station. Clearly, there is a MAGATE mission there today, and it is constantly operational. This week, there was another rotation of experts. Well, to predict a situation that, as it were, terrorists will be ready to continue, from the point of view of what they are doing at the station today, and from the point of view of what they can make, well, we'll react to the situation, that is, the developments at the station. But this is certainly a key question, not only as a result of the war between Ukraine and Russia and the occupation of the largest nuclear station in Europe, but in fact all of our partners, all of them, without exception, are talking in one voice about what any, even a small incident, at the Negative Atomic Station can actually put a cross on the Renaissance of atomic energy in the world. So that's the question, well, it's mutual, and it's really what we're talking about on all the courses with all of our partners. This is a key, first point of President Zelensky's Peace formula. And it's just that we have constant work now on the formula where we're just trying to solve the question of the Opposition Station with our partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, by "Trust" Bakunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u70	Dear Mr. Head, please pass on the word of Victoria Greeb.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, we have deputies after this, so within factions and groups, please. Or ask for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u72	It's a binoculars.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u73	Whitelighter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u74	Mr. Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers in the summer of 2023, by its decree, reduced the number of documents to obtain UBB status. Nevertheless, boys and girls spend six months trying to gain that status. Of course, it's a little simplified with the paperwork, but the main problem is the help you need to get from the part. And the thing is, what they're told is, we're here for you, we don't have time. And it all turned into a bureaucratic hell. I also want to say that maybe digitization will help, in the order of the day, the law is now. But I want to point out to you that it's almost impossible to get UCD right now. Whether it's a top team or something, but people with disabilities who actually lost limbs there can't get that status after six months. Note this. And according to NSOs, really the packets now cost 11,000 and 15,000 -- outpatient and stationary. That's a huge problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u75	Thank you so much for asking. Regarding Form No. 5, issued by a military serviceman to obtain the status of a participant in hostilities or for the proper processing of VLC documents, as well as in the subsequent MSEC. We have been working on this for almost six months, and a number of meetings have been held under my chairmanship with the heads of the Parliament's committees. We're running digitization, convinced that in the near future, appropriate technology will be provided in the military and all the necessary help will be transmitted through digital channels very quickly. We really, both parliament and the government have made an effort to maximize the deadline for this help. The last step now remains for all the military to have the physical ability to provide this help by electronic means in order to accelerate this time in general to hours. The other thing is the organization of work in the military. This is where we work with both the General Staff and the Ministry of Defense to form appropriate policies to speed this up. Personally, he was in a number of hospitals, rehabilitation centers, talking to the military about the proper work of the VLC. We've increased more than twice their number, made it possible for civilian health facilities to receive this service. My principle of this reform is that help follows the military, not the other way around. It is critical that the military documents be obtained within literally hours, not days, without spending energy, time, energy, nerves. That's why we're working on this completely together with the National Deputies, the Heads of the Professional Committees, the Mincifre, the General Staff, the Ministry of Defense. Thank you for asking. Regarding the second part, he did not hear the end. If you ask, we'll do everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u76	Thank you. Please, next question. Grigory Mikolaiovich's mom, the Platform for Life and Peace group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u77	Mr. Prime Minister, honourable deputies, I would like to point out that we have the Bureau of Economic Security in Ukraine, which has specific powers, analytical, law enforcement, to carry out and investigate economic crimes, and they have been given tremendous powers. In this regard, I have two questions where there is no head of the Ukrainian Economic Security Bureau for about a year. The first, in your opinion, is the Office of Economic Security, law enforcement or analytical? And the second question. There are competitions, these are your powers to determine the head of the Bureau of Economic Security. And the competition didn't start. But there are competitions in the NABU and there is a leader. And the second appointment procedure, so-called or the appointment of a wartime leader. What position do you choose? And why they're not.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u78	Thank you very much for your question. The Bureau of Economic Security has been established within the framework of the reform of the Ukrainian law enforcement system to control and investigate relevant crimes in the field of economic activity. This reform has begun, it has continued. Parliament has registered an appropriate bill that envisions a continuation of this reform. Of course, the state has to be formalized. The law enforcement function, obviously we're discussing this in the drafting of this bill, can be given. But this requires a separate discussion and a comprehensive approach to whether we are reforming our law enforcement system. My view is that, and we talked about this with business in particular and during the President's meeting with the Ukrainian business, that the BEB should become the only law enforcement body that would have the right to control the activities of economic operators in Ukraine. The baby has to be held accountable, so does the director of the baby. At present, there is a performer working there, and the baby is now operating as an economic control unit for economic crimes. All other steps will be taken within the framework of reform, further reform and its continuation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u79	Thank you. You finished your answer, didn't you? And please go on to Burmich Anatoly Petrovich, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine" in the Supreme Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u80	Dear Head, please give the floor to Deputy Volodymyr Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u81	Please, Vladimir Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u82	Dear Denise Anatolyovich, I have such an important question to ask you. Today, he's taking a turn for the Y-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U., but this compensation can't be granted to people for damaged and destroyed housing in front of the front lines and temporary occupation, because the current order foresees the commission's departure to the site of destruction. It is not possible to do so on a security issue. This is particularly serious on Donbassa, and I want to give an example of Marianne, who is no longer there, and it is not possible to go there, but it can be checked in another way, and people have not yet received a copy. My colleagues and I asked the government to resolve the issue of compensation, and I received the reply from Alexander Mikhailovich Kubrakov, who had developed a draft government decree, who had seen the text of the draft. My question is specific. When will the government finally adopt a new order? We spoke back in August, and today it is October.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u83	Thank you. It's really working, I reported it from the rostrum. Today 46,000 families have registered, a third has already received compensation for damaged property, now we hope that people will be able to receive after the adoption of the law by Parliament, thanks for the repairs already made. In November, as I said, it would be possible to compensate for the costs already by the appropriate certificates to those who have lost their housing altogether. All the committees are in place. We've made it as easy as possible, well, literally in a couple of clicks to do, to register an application for loss of housing or damage, but of course on the spot the commission has made it as easy as possible for this commission, there are three people: a representative of local self-government, in fact witnesses who have to confirm, with eyes to say that the residence is really destroyed or damaged. In fact, you are right, it is not possible everywhere because of fighting. We're working for the government now to figure out how to make amends to people, how to do it, is a difficult task, but it's going on. And I'm convinced that we're going to find ways to make it possible for all people to be able to get prior compensation, but of course the biggest job is and is being done for us to confiscate Russian assets frozen in the world, in order to be able to get completely for every square meter lost, for every opportunity we've lost to our people to make up for all the losses, that is, that's the key job, the key task today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u84	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, we have three minutes left, which means that another question may be asked by the "Serial of the People" faction. Please, who wants the "Serve of the People" faction? Mayor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u85	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Minister of Energy. Since the beginning of the war, Minenergo has played an important role in the lives of electricity producers at a green tariff. For almost a few months, Minneergo set a percentage of the green tariff that would be paid by the producers of electricity at the green tariff. For example, according to Minneergo's order, today the solar EU pays up to 20 percent of the green tariff. In June, it became known that dozens of industrialized EU industries in occupied areas from July 2022 did not supply electricity to Ukraine’s energy grid. At the same time, these stations, which were essentially not synchronized with the Ukrainian power grid, continued to pay money at a green tariff and paid almost 1 billion dollars. Considering that Ukrenergo had warned of this situation since November of the previous year, as it had been, Minenergo was stubbornly unaware of the payments made to the occupied EUFOR and did not in fact impede payment of more than 1 billion dollars. And the second question. What is the official position in the ministry for a billion dollars paid? Is it necessary to return it, or is it possible to forget it or any other position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. As far as I know, this event or these circumstances are being investigated by appropriate law enforcement agencies. I think they're going to figure out who allowed this electricity into the energy system, who confirmed or didn't confirm that it was produced and consumed in Ukraine's only energy system. And the question is. Unfortunately, Minenergo doesn't have the authority to stop payments, the more this doesn't happen in the Energy Ministry's enterprise system, you know that. In fact, the NCRECR has made appropriate decisions and decisions that are now, in principle, to verify this situation. I know that another test of this situation is now under way and the relevant conclusions will be drawn. And I would very much like the law enforcement authorities to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u87	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed the first round that we have agreed on from factions and groups, and now there will be questions from the national MPs. For this reason, I ask you to register all the national MPs who want to ask questions. Do you have a deal, colleagues? Please. But once again, dear colleagues, the theme of today's meeting is energy. Energy issues. So, dear fellows, I'm asking you to enroll the national MPs for a question to the government. Please log in. Please give the floor to Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u88	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, please pass on the word to Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u89	Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u90	Thank you. Continued with the previous question of subsidiarity policy. If you're already taking the numbers and you're comparing it to 49.9 billion dollars, which you're spending, including on solid, liquid fuel fuel and compressed gas, even if you're taking this dynamic and 32 percent, you have an 84 percent increase in electricity tariffs in the amount of assigned subsidies just plus 32. So 2.6 times the rate doesn't match. Yes, of course, there's another pie weight, but this is one important moment, I'd like you to take it into account. And what I'd like to pay attention to in the context of the budget next year. We all know that we have a critical demographic situation, we've seen statistics in six months, that the drop in birth rate is 28 percent, compared to the pre-war first half of the year, when there were only 38 births per 100. As you stimulate the demographic situation, the birth rate in the next budget, it's about payouts.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u91	Thank you for asking. Each year, both parliament and government fully comply with their obligation to pay subsidies to people. We haven't had a break in this policy and government, and Parliament is very responsible for this if by the end of the year we need to fund the State's essentially subsidized liabilities, and we've always done this with you, and that's what happens next year, if people need extra funds, the government stands up and, I'm sure, Parliament will back up, and we've always paid people all the subsidies and we'll pay them. This is the first and I thank you for this responsible position and our work together in relation to our people. Regarding the demographic situation. It is complex because of objective conditions of war, which is obvious. Of course, you and I, as the authorities, have to do everything we can to give people a sense of security, to give people the opportunity to make money. Accordingly, these are factors that will have a decisive impact on the demographic situation of birth. Today, the Armed Forces are doing their best to ensure that Ukraine survives as a state. I'm sure, and at this time, and after our victory, we have to do everything we can to make young people feel safe and feel our future, and that's a crucial factor, it's a mental factor that will lead to a change in the demographic situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Pavlish Pavlish Pavel Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u93	Good afternoon. I have an appeal to the Prime Minister and Minister of Energy about the need to secure the occupied territories by means of energy, namely coal and wood. And I would like to point out that this is not the way it was last year, when military administrations were given orders to carry it out, and no one was paying attention. I'll tell you what it was like. There was that from the western areas of Zakarpatsk, wood was brought, and the wood was not just wood, but round, which was then on the railway tracks. And you realize that the population can't unload big kinds of trees from wagons, and you also need coal. So let's make sure that we have more effectively repossessed territories this year. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u94	Thank you for your attention. Literally a week ago, last Saturday, I was personally at the Donetskina. We, the appropriate regional trip, held an appropriate meeting on the spot with the head of the district military administration on the provision and passage of the heating season in the Donetsk region. The situation is similar in many corrupt territories and communities. All necessary instructions are given. And the Ministry of Energy is working. Now, to Herman Valeriovich, I'll pass the word. With regard to the supply of wood. Where necessary, we have made the appropriate funds available. Local administrations also carry out appropriate tasks. In terms of the circle, on the tracks that stood, it is very important to distinguish. I just don't know what the situation is. If you give a specific example, you and I can take a look at what happened. But last year, a mission was given to the Crossroads in each area, in fact, to put echelons and forests there as a reserve that stood for each area as a reserve of wood. Maybe it happened, I don't believe it, maybe there was a substitution of concepts, and those echelons with the forest that I reserve, maybe they were perceived as wood that would go to the population. And we absolutely control the work of district military administrations on fuel and coal supply, and wood in places, in specific communities, sometimes even in every yard. But thank you for your question, it's archival, we have the minister on personal control. If there's anything to add, Herman Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u95	If possible, I literally have a few words. In fact, we do come from the fact that the supply of resources, especially when we're being approached by the corresponding WCAs on coal, we always work together, we're giving a resource. And I want to tell you that in the Donetsk region, especially as Denis Anatoliyovich mentioned it, it's actually a difficult situation to calculate even. But we come from the fact that the issue of human security is still a matter of national security. So even though there are debts that exist in calculations between utilities and our businesses, we still provide resources. So we can absolutely assure people that they will not run out of resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u96	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kozir Sergey Vijacheslavovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u97	Dennis Anatolyovich, good day again. I want to point out that we have created in Parliament an interfractional UPO-Ukraine MP, which includes more than 30 deputies from all factions, and the main question is that we are looking after and working to improve the issues of the UPO and their problems that have now arisen. The main question is that the three co-heads of this union are the VPOs themselves, and that really hurts us. So when I talk to you, I also want to hear very carefully about your report, but little did I hear in the budget in 2024 on the VPO issue. Because, really, by engagement and by population, that's the second question in our country after military action. Because all citizens of Ukraine are involved in military action and 5 million in VPO. I understand, the volunteer movement and the veteran movement, it's very relevant to our defenders, but I want to pay attention to the VPO issues, because it's an open-ended question that I haven't heard from you or from the finance minister who's planning for housing, at work. And I want to pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u98	Please, thank you. Next question, National MP Sphenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u99	Wait, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u100	Please, I didn't just see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u101	Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u102	Excuse me. You just don't see the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u103	So, about the VPO, we had a meeting with you, and we agreed that we would also have another meeting on this important issue. In the budget, the cost of the PPA is foreseen. Now it's not in the hands of the entire schedule, because they're broken between several articles of the state budget like you said. Let's, let's prepare all this information and thoroughly, together with the MP group, let's hold a meeting and set priorities for the next year together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u104	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Please proceed, National Deputy Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u105	Please pass on the right to Victoria Greeb's questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u106	Please, Mrs. Victoria Greeb.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u107	Dear Denise Anatoliyovich and Hermane Valeriyovich, I would like first of all to thank you for your titanium work in the most difficult conditions now in Ukraine. So thank you very much. That's what I'm trying to say. Ms. Inna Sowsun has already raised the question of electing a member of the NCRECR. We are meeting very many international donors, and this is question number one for them now, why we are not fulfilling our obligations under Ukrainian legislation. So please take a look at this question, if possible, by assigning such a member. Secondly, what I'd like to say is that the state's debt to utilities in the memorandum that was signed now amounts to 36 billion dollars. That's a very large sum. And we understand, 4 percent added to the PDF.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u108	Regarding the NCRECR, I will simply repeat my answer. I'll look at the papers with the lawyers, with the secretariat. Thank you for asking. Regarding debt. The task of solving the issue of accumulated debt is extremely difficult, but it does not affect the amount needed to compensate and pass the heating season this year, these are different concepts. Debts were accumulated in previous years, and this year it is not necessary to pay off debts in order to go through the heating season, pay wages, and buy fuel for TKE. So clearly, when we made a deal with the heads of the community, with the right associations, we clearly understood that 4 percent is a sufficient compensator for communities to be able to support TKE. In just a few cases, in those communities that are frontal, there we approach with individual, actually with separate mechanisms to support them. Herman Valeriyovich has already touched them, this is, in particular, your home of Dobropil, where last year, and this year we're actually going through in special circumstances, with a very big challenge, but we're going through. That's what's gonna happen this year. We will definitely support all the communities in order for all the people to go through this second, already extremely difficult in the face of a great war of a heated season. Thank you for asking. Thank you for our cooperation and your support as national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u109	Please, Pavlovsky Peter Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u110	Good afternoon, colleagues. Please pass the word to Suško Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u111	Suko Palo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u112	Hello, Denise Anatolyovich. I want to ask you a question from all the residents of Kharkiv County. Three issues that are of great concern to people today, all of which are almost related to the price of solid fuel. First. It's a state of the road. Terrible, catastrophic state of roads in the area. There is no community where there are whole roads, as a result of injuries, you can't always get to hospitals at the right time, the fast ones can't get there, and people can't move at all. The other one. In this regard, a private car cannot walk, a carrier refuses to drive because two days later the cars become cars. What can the state do to set its shoulders? But I'm asking you to send a commission to Kharkiv County to do an inventory of the roads where the funds went, whichever comes first, second. People are waiting for these answers. And the third. Prices for solid fuel. 18,000 stands a wood car, two cars need a winter, 2.5 thousand pensions. And in communities, they don't understand how they're going to be provided with wood. Today, there is no information in the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u113	Thank you. As far as the roads are concerned. Here we have to look, frankly, at the question of roads we have to look at from both sides. Because of the question. Because of the prism of the nuisance, which has already become its own name, and because of the prism of the security sector and the defence of our state, we must win the war. But for the following year, we put in 3 billion dollars to keep the roads going, especially the military, where the wounded are being driven along by ammunition. You're absolutely right, you have to do this and you have to do this. The following year, an appropriate reserve fund is set up, which also allows military roads to allocate adequate funds for their current repairs, to ensure once again the supply of military cargo and injured persons. So the state here does not take responsibility off its shoulders, and it does it, and it finances it where it is needed from a military standpoint. I emphasize, from a military point of view. All other needs will, of course, be financed and supported with regard to our infrastructure after our victory. It's obvious in today's conditions that we need the money for our victory. Regarding the cost of fuel for the heating season. I've already asked, after your question, if you make an appropriate request to the official, I'll give you an official commission to consider subsidizing all types of fuel for the heating season, you have to study this issue carefully. I agree with your point of view that this should also be subsidized, just as the gas is subsidized or the coal is subsidized, where there is no other source of heat for this and the following winters. So let's make an official request, we'll work with him officially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u114	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. The word is given to the national deputy of the town of Jury Ivanovich, the deputy group "Platform for Life and Peace" Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u115	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy, Mikola Skorik?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u116	Please, Mikola Skorik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u117	Dear Denise Anatolyovich, I have two questions concerning my native Odessa region. First question. It's regulation of freight traffic along the Odessa-Rani route. Today, this route does not last that long, and you need your commission to organize this race, because this is a strategic route for the state, I understand, but people are suffering a lot, a lot of accidents and a lot of deaths as a result of these accidents. The second question. This is a fundamental drought in the area of Odessa that is observed this fall. Does the government plan, I know the budget situation, but is the government planning appropriate compensations for our crops, and what measures is the government planning on doing about it? Because today agriculture is a key link to the Ukrainian economy. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u118	Thank you. On your request, I'm going to give you an appropriate commission to the Deputy Prime Minister of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Infrastructure, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to do everything possible to sort out the situation on the route you just described. Regarding the agricultural situation, it is complex in four southern regions after. Especially after the disaster, the terrorist attack on the Kakhovsky GES, carried out by the Russian Federation. Of course, we're looking for ways to support our agrarians. As of today, agriculture has the opportunity to receive the 5-7-9 premiums, especially under portfolio guarantees, under state guarantees, more than 84 billion of these premiums have been obtained by agro-enterprises. This is the aid that the State is systematically providing to practically most of the agrarians of our country, which are in need of it most of the time because of different circumstances, not just because of the drought, because of the replacement of fields in many areas and communities, because of the need for humanitarian exchange. That's why we're going to continue this policy. As far as the individual program is concerned, today, you know, we're all developmental and all programs that don't apply to the security and defence sectors have been maximized, but as far as agriculture is concerned, we have a separate policy of supporting it as a key sector, a key area of our economy. So, of course, we will look for all possible ways, including with international partners, to support our agricultural sector. Especially in the Odessa region, as you pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u119	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Please invite me to the next question of Ukrainian National Deputy Krachod Anna Konstantinovna, MP Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u120	Please pass the word to Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u121	Sergei Jaroslavovich Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u122	Good afternoon. I have a question for the Prime Minister. One question to the Minister of Energy. Mr. Prime Minister, I have my second day off as a military officer and on my way here for the session, I went to the Kosar Spirit Plant in the Cherkas region. It's a record player at the cost of privatizing liquor factories. They paid total VAT two years ago for 194 million dollars. And to this day they are not allowed to work. In accordance with all the necessary legislative standards, they seek to ensure that Ukrispirt, the tax inspectors responsible, come and seal the seals without which it is impossible to work, and they are not allowed to do so for months at a time. That's 150 employees. I just don't understand what it was like to do this and still not allow them to work. Second question to the Minister of Energy. That's the same question.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u123	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u124	Thank you. About your question about the Kosar alcohol plant. I've never heard of this problem. Today, I'm going to go back to my job, I'm going to give the Ministry of Economics and other relevant authorities to gather information and see what it's all about as quickly as possible. I appreciate your request as a parliamentary request. The answer will be given to you. Well, of course, in addition to the answer, let's do everything we can to make the business work, if there's really all the legal and all the economic foundations there. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the "Voice" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u126	Please pass the word to Inni Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u127	Who, who? I didn't hear. Ah, Inna Romanovna Sosun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u128	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. I'm going to take this opportunity to repeat two questions that we haven't heard the answer to. The first was my question about what number was counted for the construction of shelters, Ukrenergo, and the Agency for Reconstruction. The second question was from a colleague of the County who asked about the payment of the green tariff in the occupied territories. We never heard the position of the government on this matter. And we don't need to talk about what we need to hear from the NCRECR because it's not a matter for the NCRECR because it's a political issue. It's about how we basically work with occupied areas. The issue will not be resolved here by the NCREPR. So I would still like to hear the government's position on this. And the third question to the Prime Minister. Would you mind giving me a hint when we see a candidate for the minister of culture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u129	If you don't mind, I'll start with the question of NCREKP and this situation with the tariff payments. In fact, look, this situation, it's not very difficult to understand how it works. So there's a manufacturer, he's putting his data in the skynergo, he's transferring it to Ukrenergo, and then Ukrenergo checks it out and confirms it, because it's the only company that sees whether there's any physical, actually electricity coming into the combined energy system. And then it passes on to Harpok, and there's actually payments going on. So it seems to me that the situation here is very difficult to establish the truth. And so the question is, I don't see politics here, because politics is easy for us. Politics: If you have produced 1 kilowatt of electricity and have not put it in a unified energy system, it is obvious that it has not been consumed and that no one can pay for it. So here I think it's going to be clearly set for each particular payment, because the company actually works in this mode is about 70. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u130	With respect to your particular question about the number, we'll pick up when we get back to the workplace, give you a specific payment, which numbers have been paid accordingly. The answer will be given. As far as the Ministry of Culture is concerned, we're working on finding a suitable candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u131	Thank you. Please continue to give the floor to the National MP Fedienek Alexander Pavlovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please, Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u132	Please give me your word. Stéphane Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u133	Please, Sergey Sergiyovich Stepa.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u134	Good afternoon! I have a complex question for the Minister of Energy. Dear Mr. Hermane, recent social networks have been spreading information that, as if Russia were to repeat attacks on the energy sector of the Zaporozhye region, in Zaporozhye and the surrounding areas, there could be lights out for 10 hours or more. This information is not supposed to be taken from the ceiling but is calculated by an organization that calls itself an institution. I'd like to hear from you: first, how reliable is this, very unpleasant, a 10-hour light-off scenario, first; and second, what is the job done in order to prevent this situation. Of course, it is only about what you can talk about in public. And the third. Why wait for the guards in the first place? Are they supposed to be stocking up with willows and sources of continuous power now, or do you really think that these apocalyptic light-disengagement scenarios aren't going to be around half an hour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u135	Thank you for asking. Well, in fact, with regard to the findings of the institute and such information, the expert opinions that now appear very often in the media area, I urge very careful attention to this, because the enemy's information operations have not been shared anywhere. And I want to tell you that just before the start of the heating season, we're seeing an increase in this kind of waste of information that doesn't fit in at all. And this has literally recently been another informational waste about what happened as a nuclear fuel accident that was loaded into the Plains nuclear station and produced jointly with Westinghouse, which I was talking about today, and that the people in the Plains region should prepare for life without light. So it's actually going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to have to be, it's going to have to be, it's going to have to be, it's going to have to be, it's going to have to be, it's going to have to be calm, We're always open, we're going to comment, we're going to show the real situation in every region, every object. With regard to emergency preparedness, we cannot, of course, assess or predict the extent of attacks and the extent of possible damage, but the key is that we certainly have protocols for emergencies. I'm the only one who wants to say that we have recently conducted appropriate emergency training in all regions of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u136	I'll make it up to you, if you don't mind. We need to be conscious, responsible, and very frank and honest: Winter will be difficult, especially in the frontal areas. We realize that where the enemy's artillery comes from, where the C-300s fly, the threats are very high. And I repeat, be conscious and responsible. And you can't hide your head in the sand, you have to understand that we've done everything we can to do passive protection. We can't talk about it in public and loud. And in order to make an active defense, I called it from the rostrum, we have virtually all of the Western air defence systems, we're now making an echelon defense against the entire state. Also, military things that we cannot discuss publicly. But all this work is done, much of it is done. The enemy of this winter will do everything possible to repeat the scenarios of last year. We are ready, but nothing excludes what the minister said: we do not know the extent of their aggression this winter. We need to prepare for different scenarios. All the protocols are written, in all cases we have sufficient experience last year, in all of them: in society, in energy companies, in business, in the economy, in our society. That's why we're going to go through this winter, despite all the terror from the enemy, but of course we need to be conscientious, ready, responsible, honest and only in the face of Russian aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u137	Thank you. Please go on, Mohammed Musa Sergoyevich, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u138	I give you the word Klimpush-Cincadze. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u139	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u140	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, I would ask that you do not underestimate the efforts of the various political forces in our promotion to the European Union. And I think that if we worked together, we wouldn't get any candidate status, or, potentially, we wouldn't be able to get any membership talks. In this context, I have a question. The government was to provide a reform plan for the European Union to obtain a final agreement of 50 billion euros in aid to Ukraine’s Facility. Did the government hand over the plan? If so, why was he not represented for Parliament? Because no reform can be done without the participation of Parliament. And the second question. Is the government's work plan approved by the reforms that our colleagues in the United States expect? Is this concept of the so-called defence of democratic stability in your opinion to replace this reform agenda? And the third.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u141	Thank you for asking. It is entirely up to you that we should be the only ones in our Euro-integration aspirations. An important point about Ukraine's Facility for 50 billion years is a tool of the European Commission that actually prepares the European Commission with the involvement of experts from the Ukrainian government, and I understand that they involve other expert organizations, and perhaps civil society. I repeat, this is a tool for the European Commission. Plan of the European Commission for Ukraine We're taking part. We are actively preparing this with the appropriate Directorate of the European Commission based on the Ministry of Economics. As soon as the instrument is prepared and the draft is made, of course we will present it, we will discuss it with society, with Parliament. That seems obvious to me. Yes, with regard to the proposals made by the United States, I also spoke from the rostrum, thank you for pointing out that there is a Ukrainian initiative -- this is the concept of increasing the resilience of democracy, which covers all aspects of our lives, because we want to be a civilized country and not only in anti-corruption, but also in the fight against organized crime, in the fight against clanism in certain economic fields and manifestations, in Ukraine there is a system of work for both parliament and government. So, of course, we need to put in place a single plan for reforming our country, where we can prioritise appropriate reforms. They'll include both the IMF and the proposals from the United States, and the Ukraine Facility that we've just talked about. So we have to understand priority. The World Bank has already agreed with the Office of Reforms, the European Commission and the EBRD to help us make an appropriate mathematical model of priority for those reforms, thousands of which are now in Ukraine, and are particularly being made available to us as recommendations by our partners. We're going to do this work and, I'm sure, it's going to be a very good document where we can have a road map for the next 4-5 years to reform our state for the purpose of joining the EU, and the rise, the main thing is to raise the standard of living of our society, our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u142	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Please continue Greenchuk Oksana Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u143	Please pass the word to Nekludov Vladen.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u144	Please, Lord Neklud.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u145	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Good afternoon, Denise Anatolyovich. Glad to see you, I think you're also happy to see, to be back in the circle of friends, to be able to have such a wide-ranging communication mother. I have a question about this kind of lifestyle about how to fill in the budget, including energy. We, as representative and member of the IFO of UPO Ukraine, we have discovered the facts of the numerous thefts by the former governor, the head of the OVA Dnipropetrov region of Mr. Resnichenko, there the systemic facts of the theft, 220 wagons disappeared, this is Dnipromlin, and wheat, and we don't know where they are. There's a robbery: 42 million a month he paid the budget for some warehouses, and there he was, in the form of humanitarian aid, hundreds of millions of them were missing. And we've been asking you to get involved in this, and he can, if he draws you to responsibility, he can take it back. That's hundreds of millions of dollars, they're going to go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u146	Thank you for your words about the beginning of our work together, I have spoken of this from the rostrum, grateful to the head of Parliament, grateful to the Ukrainian Parliament for being able today to restore our format of cooperation, I find it absolutely constructive, useful for our country during the war. Thank you for that. Convinced, the government will be conscientious, responsible to prepare and work during the "hour of questions to the government" when possible in conditions of full-scale aggression. Regarding the work of the TSC. I would suggest that today we hold a separate meeting for the participation of relevant national deputies on internal displacement issues in Ukraine. We're going to prepare for this meeting, and we're going to look at all the details. Regarding criminal conduct regarding the work of the TSC, this is considered a priority by law enforcement authorities. I don't always have the right to interfere from a legal point of view, so where it's a criminal or other investigation, I think we need to rely on materials that we're going to receive from the law enforcement system, the law enforcement agencies, and we can discuss them with you within the limits provided by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, next question from national deputy Kitsak Bogdan Viktorovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please, Bogdan Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u148	Questions to the Minister of Energy. A recent meeting of the Committee on Economic Development was held to discuss the issue of "Star" – "Mashproject". And we were told by representatives of the Ministry of Economics that there are gas turbines in the company that were provided for deliveries to Russia, and for the moment, because we have a full-scale war, these gas turbines can be used for Ukraine’s gas transport system. Please provide information on why they are not used at the moment, nowhere, because the representatives of the Mineconomy said that they could be used to generate up to 30 megawatts of electricity and so more or less pass through this fall-winter period when we're likely to collapse into an energy system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u149	Thank you for asking. In fact, it's a really important decision and a decision, first, from the point of view of balancing the energy system and second, from the point of view of decentralization. Because for us it's the fastest solution in the energy system, it's these gas turbines that can generate 20 to 50 megawatts and properly support the system in peak loads, and so, in case, God forbid, bluffs can work 27/7, producing electricity and providing critical infrastructure. It's about this case. I have been contacted by law enforcement officials, which is where legal mechanisms will be found, how these turbines can be used. And so they're already in communication with the OGTSA right now, this is the company that operates the main gas pipelines that have the right pressure to set up this category of turbines. And once the legal formalities are done legally, we'll do it and set it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u150	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich, MP's "Platform for Life and Peace" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u151	Thank you, Mr. Head. I have a question for the Prime Minister in a macroeconomic context with an emphasis on industry. If we're looking at the trend last year and this year, we have a 2.9 percent drop this year, but that's in the background of a 36.7 percent drop last year. Metallurgy, it's eight months this year, it's also a 23.9 percent drop, and it's in the background of a 72 percent drop last year. The construction sector is down 18 percent after a 65 percent drop last year. The chemical industry is 62 percent down in the past and 4.1 percent in the past. The truck's going down the same way. In fact, the glass industry has been shut down or destroyed. I have something to do with this. Since we do have a macro-economic aspect, it has to be in this room, when we're planning real structural economic reforms, and when we can overcome this deindustrialization of Ukraine, because without industrial policy, economic policy is actually lagging behind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u152	Thank you. I will remind you that because of full-scale Russian aggression, Ukraine lost 30 percent of its economy, 30 percent of its GDP last year. This is an objective reason why we had this fall. This year, the economy is actually recovering. You called the planned growth of the economy, we're actually going to get this year for the first time. I would also like to thank the Ukrainian business, which is extremely responsible for paying taxes, and we have collected about 2 trillion in the Ukrainian budget this year, it was executed last year, almost even with recast, was more than 100 percent of the planned legislation that approved Parliament's legislation. So business is very responsible, it pays taxes, and we're grateful for that business. Regarding the industry. She wasn't before the war. Today we're doing, working on creating special conditions and working with all of our partners, both Ukrainian and international, to create one or even more of the factories in Ukraine, because through a full-scale war, there's tremendous demand for glass. We talk about this loudly with all our partners. You realize that for security reasons today not all international partners are ready to enter Ukraine immediately, but an extremely great interest in entering Ukraine after the end of full-scale Russian aggression. Although we are already working through legislation called "investment" today, and we have dozens of foreign businesses, Ukrainian businesses that are creating businesses are entering Ukraine, and that's more than $1 billion of investment right now. In particular, the companies that are opening up in Western Ukraine are building suitable factories for the production of construction materials, including insulating materials and other building materials, realizing that Ukraine will be rebuilt. So, of course, we're taking all the necessary steps to make the economy recover and enable people to get jobs. We lost 3.5 million jobs because of Russian aggression. This too needs to be taken into account. This refers to the 30 percent loss of GDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u153	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the hour of questions to the government is over. Let us thank the Prime Minister of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, according to. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, take your seats. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose that a signal vote be held prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. [[12:24:09]] For 205 - 205, versus - 8, held - 3. Everything, as always, is a respected colleague. Once again, I appeal to all my colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, which was decided in Parliament sooner than an hour after the end of our work. Dear colleagues, a list of issues agreed upon by the Conciliation Council is given. But we're in the middle of something. We had a very productive day yesterday. Please, I'd like to invite Roxolan Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u154	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, we finished 989 yesterday. Please, Honcharenko Alexiyyovich, 989 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u156	Good afternoon. We keep working. And Mr. Prime Minister is still with us. Mr. Dennis! Mr. Dennis!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u157	Correction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u158	Of course, it just didn’t work out for me, and I wanted to say it. How many times have I called on the Supreme Council to return "the hour of questions to the government"? I just wanted to ask Mr. Dennis how he's holding up. We haven't seen him in so long. And I'd like to hear him say it, but unfortunately it didn't work out, because one day it didn't work. But as amended, we continue to discuss changes to the state budget of Ukraine. And I offer to help our military as always. It's about the protection program, the special protection of information, it's a very important direction, and today cybersecurity is very important. As always, I raise these questions to our military personnel, Nacgardia, U.S.S.S.A., U.S.S.S.A., the State Information Protection System -- this is supposed to be our prayer every day in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u159	Thank you. The committee's position is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u160	The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u161	Thank you. 989 amendment to the potcherenko, it's rejected by the committee. The potter asks for it to be taken into account. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:26:47]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Please 990 revisions, Gerasimov. Arthur! Ah, Goncharenko. Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u162	Please, the next question I want to ask is, of course, the transfer of funds to the military. It's a shame we haven't come back and unlocked the 30s for all the military. Let me remind you that exactly six months ago, on April 10th, the Supreme Council voted in favour of the Ukrainian Law, with the return of a "thirty" to all military personnel, police officers, rescuers. This has not yet been done, a law blocked by Mr. Cabal's artificially decree. He's in the hall today, maybe Mr. Tsabbal will take the floor right now and explain why that is, and maybe he'll even say it and call it off. Because I can see that the speaker won't take it, but Mr. Tsabbal could call it off and unlock it. And then we would just make the right changes, and start paying those who really deserve it, not spending it on drums and TV shows and everything, but spending it on military personnel. And here's the State Information Protection Service. Vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u163	990 Amendment of Gerasimov, Pauline, Pottery, rejected by the committee Please vote. [[12:28:26]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Fedina or Friz, who's today? Fedina, please. I'm sorry, the voice of the Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u164	Alexiyyovich, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, you know well that if the law did not provide for funding, as it was 48 times a year ago, funding should be made from existing sources. So in the case of the adoption of 48 revisions, what you're proposing, we have to take the money, if I understand you correctly, from 100,000 military personnel to the front to give it to the police and other categories in the back. So you have to increase everyone, but you don't have to take 100,000, you don't have to reduce the number of people who get 100,000 on the front to get back. Everyone should be given, but not taken from the front. There are sources of how the budget works.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u165	Thank you, Vladimir Volodymyrovich, thank you. Please, the next 991. Fedina, yes, Sophia Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u166	The 991 amendment, which unfortunately the committee rejected, envisions additional funding for the preparation, retraining, and upgrading of communications personnel. I'm going to remind you that the link on the front is the base, it's the basic survival. And how many of our military personnel were killed at the beginning of the full - scale invasion, since there was no proper link between the units. I am ashamed that the budget committee and, in particular, the sovereigns now do not want to add an elementary 19 million to ensure that our liaisons have sufficient experience, sufficient qualifications, and sufficient numbers of them to advance to provide communication within the Ukrainian defence force and to ensure the defence of the Ukrainian state. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment. 19 million to raise their qualifications, to train liaisons to support the survival of all types of armies on the front.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, the 991th Amendment of the United Nations. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[12:31:06]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 992th, please, Bondar. You're handing over Big Boy. Bigwich. He was talking all day yesterday. All right, let it work. Please, Big Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! I'm ready to work all day today, and whenever a plenary meeting is scheduled. I believe that the State Service, which is responsible for protecting information, needs additional funds. If we're giving them funds to buy drones, we need to talk accordingly about training, retraining and upgrading skilled personnel in higher education institutions -- that's what we need right now, and in that context, increasing funding for drone purchases. So I'm asking you to set up a bill for accounting and allocate extra funds to this service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u169	992 of Bondar and Veliczovich's amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[12:32:24]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next 993, Ariev. Excuse me, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u170	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich. Dear colleagues, I am very pleased that today the factions of the "Serial of the People" are far more people than they were yesterday. And once again, I want to repeat why we can't vote for this law. First. There are not so many armies: 272 million -- Minfin, 91 -- Minust, 30 -- Mindocyl, 18.5 -- Mincultures, etc., etc. In addition, I want to tell you that this is about PDF, because one of the key sources of this law's fulfillment is exactly PDF, up to 207 billion. It is for you to understand how this is related. And the next one. I just want to go to the majors who are here from the Servant of the People, so you know, 37th and 38th are twins, they're brothers. And the offer is very simple. Remove anything that does not apply to the security and defence sectors of this law, send it to the second and accept it very quickly, but only for defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, the 993 revision of Ariev, Gerasimov, Chigoza, was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:34:02]] For-57 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 994. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u172	Thank you. Of course, my amendment is, as always, to add money to the military. And, my friends, I have an offer. The proposal, first of all, the military broadcasts that they're listening to us, they're looking very closely at how we're making decisions here, and they're inviting Parliament to meet somewhere closer to Time Yar, somewhere closer to Kupyansk, somewhere near Robotine. It seems military and, frankly, I also think that then a lot of things will clear up, and we will better make decisions, understanding the real priorities, not the drums, not the serials, not the buzzards, -- the real priorities that are in the state today. And here's another one. I call for Parliament and Committee meetings, I have already proposed, including our budget, in the same places. Why not? Mr. Mikola Tishchenko, if present, would like to hear him say, "Is he ready to drive there?"
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u173	Ninety-ninety-four fix to the potter. You've heard her reasoning. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:35:34]] For-58 The decision is not taken. The following amendment is also made by the potterenka. Herasimov or Hotcharenko – who will it be? Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u174	Once again, I urge Mr. Tishchenk, if he is, to react and speak his mind. We all saw a situation like this yesterday when national deputies. We had an empty hall last night, guys, and I'd like to find out to my colleagues. Colleagues, where were you yesterday? Colleagues, where have you been? Well, we didn't see you, there were 30 deputies here today, about 330, I understand, maybe more. Where have you all been? What did you do last night? Why weren't you here? We've been working here for 23 hours, waiting for you, but we didn't wait. And I have a separate one. Well, we know about some of the colleagues who were there. We saw a colleague of Dmitri's. He was out there chasing after a guy, fighting. Mr. Dmitri, if you're here today, take a line, explain where you were yesterday, what happened there. Is it really the work of a national MP to pursue the electorate and.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u175	Alexiyyovich, I would still ask for a closer look at the amendments, then they'll have a chance to understand their essence. This is, in principle, provided for in the Rules. Alexiyyovich, please. 995 revisions. It's rejected. The authorship of Pottery and colleagues. Please vote. [[12:37:20]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next, 996. Iron, Clumsy, Cabal. They took off their repairs. Same thing: 997, 998, 999, 1000, 1001. This was done by a colleague. 1002 repairs. Mikisha. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u176	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Colleagues yesterday for 10 hours proved why certain budget articles really needed to be redistributed to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the GUR and the fight against corruption. Ten hours proved the need and importance of this redistribution. My revision, which I'm now reporting, is that 8 billion extra of the other expenses, has just been redistributed to further enhance the implementation of the measures and to provide special technology and equipment. That is, an additional 8 billion from the BEB, from the UDO, of others, in order for our armies to have weapons, they have appropriate equipment to destroy the Russian and kill the enemy that came to us. And that's what we're talking about when we said that some of the expenses are not for the army, but we're just adding plus 8 billion here, plus 2 and a half GUR and plus 800 million on the drone. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u177	1002 Mikishi's amendment, it's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:39:09]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Next. 1003 repairs. Iron, Clumsy, Cabal. Don't insist. Same thing as 1004. The same authors. 1005th. The same authors. 1006th. Fedina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u178	This amendment requires increased funding for Ukraine's diplomatic service. Regrettably, the monarchy has now been so adopted that the diplomatic service has no resources at all to deal not only with our refugees abroad, but not even to defend Ukraine's interests, because, on the one hand, their Office of the President and the Ministry of Internal Affairs have completely deprived them of these opportunities and, on the other hand, they don't even have the resources to produce passports or hire new workers who will take care of these or other problems. So it's critical that we add at least another part of the funds to the 2023 budget to the diplomatic service, to consular institutions, to diplomatic mail, including new passports, and that our diplomatic service has at least some status in our country. It's a shame that the "servants" are still rejecting all these possibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u179	The 1006th Amendment of Fedina, the Fries, is rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:40:42]] For-72 The decision is not taken. 1007 repairs. Please, Big Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, it is vital that our diplomatic service work fully and functionally. And so we ask you to increase funding for the delivery of correspondence that the service is responsible for. Requesting that this amendment be supported and that additional funds be made available for these needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u181	Thank you. 1007 The amendment of Bondar and Veliczovich was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:41:42]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Let's move on. 1008 repairs. Please, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u182	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, once again, why is it not desirable to vote for this bill? The first is a key source of PDF that will be taken from local budgets. Maybe not everyone is telling you this right now, but that's what the information is. And the second moment, once again, it's not just about the army. Under the cover of the army, billions of dollars are collected from the wrong direction. For example, look at this: We have 91 million want to go to Minust and have 70 unused; 30 want to go to Mindocyl and 89 not used; 272 million want to go to Minfin; and 252 want to go to Minfin. What, though, is said to be the secret of all this history? And they want to spend their money on bureaucrats and bureaucrats under the cover of the army. Is this a priority during the war? That is why note these two moments before you vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u183	Thank you. 1008 Amendment of Ariev, Gerasimov, Chigoza The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[12:43:14]] For-59 The decision is not taken. The next is 1009 revisions. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u184	Alexei Hotcharenko. A very important amendment that speaks of the need to add funds to the diplomatic service and to the diplomatic front. We're all with you, friends, we see what's happening in the United States, and unfortunately, Ukraine becomes a hostage of political struggle. We see that completely failed work with the Congress of the United States is completely ruined because we have destroyed parliamentary diplomacy. Because we have parliamentary diplomacy being carried out by Nicholas Tishchenk in Thailand, by other "ministers of the people" in the Maldives, there's Barcelona, there's other places. Instead of working -- Washington; instead of working -- Tennessee, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Florida and others, Texas, and other states where we need to do this today. By the way, here the colleagues have responded, they say, maybe Mikola Tishchenka will like Florida as a state where we can work. In principle, it's no worse than Thailand. Then let's help out with our service.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u185	1009 repairs to the potter. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[12:44:43]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 1010-Loader. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u186	Guys, let's move on. Indeed, once again, this is an extremely important issue, and we need to support our diplomatic service. We see, unfortunately, I've talked about the problems of the United States. We see problems with Poland, and there are also serious problems. All of this implies that the leadership of the Supreme Council somehow strangely lets the deputies go. If you're the "Serve of the People" and you want to go to the Maldives, you'll get there. If you're an opposition and you want to work at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, here's the problem, or go to a forum in Poland, as it did in colleagues. And we have the results of that. If we don't invest now, that's what we can do, there's no big deal from us on the front, and there's a diplomatic front, so we can make a difference. And the diplomatic front is a weapon, that's money, that's all. So let's support and let's work in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u187	Once again for information: neither Maldives nor the Polish shipping forum was signed. This is true of the honesty and objectivity of the information provided. The 1010th amendment by Gončarenko was rejected by the Committee. Please vote. [[12:46:24]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1011. Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u188	This amendment, 1011, foresees an increase in funding for the delivery of special service correspondence to the public authorities. And what this is about is that there's a lot of processes that should be happening instantly in our country, they stop because there's not enough funding for any of the other points after the shipping, after getting, after processing the information itself. In particular, our military personnel, who have been waiting for months, if not longer, to prepare their documents, are suffering. I am no longer saying that the same is true of diplomatic mail, courier mail, and the supply of necessary information, particularly confidential information. I don't understand how you can fund the BEB, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, raise their wages, raise Kabmin's funding? By the year 2024, you want to increase the funding of the Supreme Council by not financing the basic security, welfare, and survival of our Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u189	Amendment to the 1011th by the author of the Fedina, Fryz. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[12:47:53]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Amendment 1012, please. Excuse me. Bigwich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, 1012 law enforcement, but I'd like to say in general for the law. Now we're going to vote for this law and we're going to see how many points there are that we pointed to yesterday throughout the day. This is also an increase in funding for the BEB, an increase in funding for some articles on the Cabinet of Ministers. And the MPs who were talking about putting this money on the military would be better off letting it go to those who are on the fore and risking their lives every hour. That's why we think that this bill cannot be voted on and we're going to ask our colleagues to send it to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u191	Thank you. Please, 1013th Amendment. Gerasimov. Ariev? Please, Ariev. I just can't keep track of your movements.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u192	Nothing, we'll figure it out. This amendment includes a proposal to increase funding for the delivery of special service correspondence. But once again, I would like to stress that we need to move on to real reforms. Just now, Reuters released a survey in the United States, where the level of support for providing arms to Ukraine falls compared to May. And that's why it's falling more into democratics than in Republicans, and that's very serious stuff. And what I'm saying about the need to restore the work of the Supreme Council right now is that we urgently need to do all the reforms, if that's the voice of the voice in the desert, the next time the desert will be the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u193	1013 Amendment of Ariev, Gerasimov, Chigoza The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[12:50:20]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1014, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u194	Yes. A very important amendment, and we're talking about the need to maintain the functioning of state power here, and we really need to figure it out, because Mr. Head, speaker, says he didn't sign a shipping service in Thailand, I believe him. I don't think the head of the Supreme Council can tell a lie here, but then there's a question, and how did the Embassy of Ukraine in Thailand call people to a meeting? I don't know, maybe they went to the beach somewhere and they called people in the loudspeaker to meet with Mikola Tishchenk. Maybe somewhere in a massage parlor, I don't know. So here's the question, and how did the embassy get involved in this particular activity of the Tischenka People's Deputy? So, my friends, we need to spend money on the military because it's our only hope of winning. And certainly talk about the complex subject of demobilization, but we have to talk and make decisions, because these people are getting exhausted. And that's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u195	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the People's Chamber of Commerce to count number 1014. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:51:53]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 1015, Gerasimov, Pavlovenko, Goncharenko. Honcharenko, please, Alexeiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u196	Thank you. I'm not putting her to the vote, by the way, because I can see there's no desire here. At last, even though the MPs did show up, they do not vote for anything. Once again, I don't understand. But we are approaching the conclusion of the 2023 change in Ukraine's budget. Friends, it's hard to look at because with the absolutely necessary costs that all society is talking about the army, the victory, the arms, there's the cost of drums, there's the show, there's the Bureau of Economic Security that we're adding money to. Well, are we seriously going to win this? We're going to win: shall we offer the Orcs to watch the movie they're going to make? Should we throw them in the dirt? Are we gonna knock in the drum to scare them? So, my friends, there are obvious priorities. And I'm very sorry that these priorities in this budget have not found the reflection that they should have.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u197	Yes, you don't. Next 1016, Sparrow. Don't insist. Motovlover. Yeah, it's counted. 1018, Fedina, Friz. Please, Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u198	Amendment 1018.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u199	Will you put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u200	Yeah, I'll bet. The strategic question is that I don't understand how you can get funding for the needs of people in the Hersonian region. I realize that most of the deputies there have not been and will not come there, but there are shootings every day, there are dead every day, there every day destruction, there every day the need for repairs, finally there every day the need for military personnel. And there is a critical need for additional resources to provide both bread and medicine and to protect the civilian population from the ongoing bombings. And we have funds for the Economic Security Bureau, we have funds for the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, and we don't have funds for the Herson area. Well, you've all voted for it!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u201	I'm betting on the vote on Fedena's proposal to take into account number 1018. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:54:42]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1019th Velitchovich Mikola Romanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, who have at least once been released from Herson and been shot, understands very well how difficult it is to be there and work, how hard it is to be there and survive, and not leave this city. You know, I think, even though we've allocated enough, as if there's enough money in this bill, but we think that we're going to add extra funds to the organization of work, both the authorities and the organization of local self-government, as well as the funds. For ordinary citizens who survive there every day and under fire. This is the task of our hall. And I ask you to vote, support the extra allocation of funds for the Hersonians and for their needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u203	Thank you. Amendment of 1019 by Bondar and Velichovich. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[12:56:06]] For-63 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1020. Who? Arjev or Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u204	Anything, in principle, could be different and faster with regard to the provision of military assistance, more specifically, the allocation of additional funding if the bill were divided into two parts. The first is essentially money for military salaries and support for regions that have suffered the most from hostilities, including the Herson area that is now being addressed. And the second bill is additional payments to the corruption through the Bureau of Economic Security, to the Ministry of Justice, to the Secretary of the Cabinet and everyone else. So divide the real defence sector and everything. Then we would see that the first bill would have been instant ballots, and the second bill could have been really debated. And we'll still come to the debate if we want to become a real European country, because Parliament is a place for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u205	Amendment of 1020 by Ariev, Gerasimov and Chigoza The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[12:57:39]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Goncharenko, 1021. Alexiyyyovich, I'm sorry, before you begin, I would like to remind you that we have a Supreme Council ruling on the fact that we're spreading information an hour after the end. Now you're running a direct broadcast in the liquid, and I'm just informing you that you're violating this regulation, and you're putting the only legislative body of our state and the people who are here at risk. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u206	Thank you. Look, me. Mr. Ruslan, I have a million-dollar offer for you. It's very simple. You obey the law and the Rules and make the order of the Cabal for a vote, and I rule out the broadcast in circulation. And I promise you, even after that, I won't include it for a while exactly, I can take a long time. That's such a very good offer: you're doing the law, and then I'm also shutting down the broadcast in the stream. And I don't even know what we're ashamed of, we're sitting here working for these people who are looking at us, in the liquid, including. It's their right to see what we're doing. For some reason, we shut down the Supreme Council for People so that they don't know anything about what's going on here. We don't put the press in here. We don't broadcast live air like we did 30 years of the Supreme Council, 30 years of independence of Ukraine, new know-how -- everything to close, hide and do something under the blanket. Then take the order of the Cabal in response to my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u207	Alexeiyyovich, first of all, we're not at the market, but second of all, I'm very worried that you wouldn't be able to land at Pornhub or OnlyFans. Thank you. Please, let's move on. I'm putting 1021 amendments, it's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:59:46]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Alexeiovich Honcharenko Next 1022.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u208	The point is, Mr. Ruslan, this is a lively discussion. You named something called OnlyFans or something. Pornhub, OnlyFans. I didn't know what those were. I understand what you know. It pleases me. Because in fact, we need an advanced speaker, a speaker of today's, not a splinter, who's wide-sighted and knows a lot of things. Unfortunately, I didn't know what it was, but my colleagues told me. For what it takes. Honestly, considering what's going on here in the Supreme Council, we might have, I think, like you said, Pornhub, and there's a show there too. It's kind of a close thing. So, friends. That's probably why you're showing us on TV at night. So, guys, I'm still asking you to get back to the work of the Supreme Council, let people watch it. Maybe someone would be more interested in it than Pornhub and what other networks you named and work for the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u209	Alexiyyovich, brilliant presentation of Amendment 1022 Everyone understood the nature of it. Thank you so much for the deep one. But unfortunately, somehow, even though you don't even know these names, I have to put 1022 amendments to the vote. I'm putting 1022 amendments to the authorship. You don't have to? Oh, I mean, you've got it all figured out. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. From the procedure? Please, Demchenka. Demchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u210	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Colleagues, there was just a proper dialogue between our colleagues. I don't want to make any remarks, I just want to pay attention. Guys, we're having a war, we're killing people, including civilians, a tragedy recently. I'm ashamed to look into our citizens' eyes when they quote what's going on in our parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, the 1023th Amendment. Dmitri Alexanderovich, like yesterday? Please, Rumplestiltskin, 1023rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u212	Ruslan Alexiyovich, there's ten of my rights left, give me six minutes, I'll go on and on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u213	And you're taking these amendments off? Please, Brainy 6 minutes, undo the correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u214	Give it time first.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u215	Please take your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u216	Thank you. Dear colleagues, last night, after the meeting of the Supreme Council, some parliamentary colleagues, Facebook heroes, began to whine that Parliament had worked for 12 hours. So tell me, aren't you ashamed? You sit four days a month! Four days. The first time Parliament worked a little bit more, really, yeah, we worked 12 hours. But how many national deputies worked these 12 hours? In the end, there were 30 people in the hall. You didn’t want to listen and accept the right adjustments. You didn't want to add 11 billion to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, you didn't have enough conscience because there were no people in the room, you didn't vote for it. And then we're going to have to look into the eyes of our protectors that you didn't add these funds to. You didn't add 2.4 billion to GUR. The GUR that protected you and the Kiev, along with other brave units on February 24, 2022, when many ministries went to the Zacarpathian Cauldron and organized the heroic defence of Mukachev. You didn't add 700 million to the anti-corruption system, to the SAP and the NAB, you didn't want to do it because you're very scared. Like some colleagues said yesterday, you're going to have to buy diapers. You didn't want to, you didn't even vote for it, you didn't care. They've been working too hard for 12 hours. And please tell me, when our advocates work 24 times 7 they don't have a hard time? But you wanted to pay 220 million for the baby. You decided it was a first-line expense instead of helping the Ukrainian Armed Forces. You've decided that you can pay 214 million to the Secretary of the Cabinet. Is that the ultimate principle position? Is it important? They can't work on what they have? You've decided that you have the right to give 1.4 billion to the Foreign Ministry, that ministry that is doing everything today to spoil our relationship with our partners. Because of their work, I'm not talking about the embassy, I'm talking about the central apparatus. Today we have problems with Poland, our strategic friend, and our partner. At times, it seems that it would be best if they stayed in Kiev, closed up in their ministry, and went nowhere. You didn't want to pay $1.2 billion from the Ingletz TV show, from a single marathon on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, you didn't vote for it. And you're going to tell me right now that it was spam. You just don't have a conscience when you talk about it, dear colleagues. They've been working for 12 hours. Don't you want to go back to the work of the Supreme Council? Let's work for weeks, as it's supposed to. Let's invite journalists here, let's open the Supreme Council's work, someone's talking about security. And as all other institutions and businesses work in Kiev, please tell me. When the Head of the Supreme Council was asked yesterday not to continue the session until 11th, but to move it to today, to go through the key lines and continue to vote. The head of the Supreme Council disagreed. Ruslan Alexiyovich will confirm that we had such a dialogue that we are voting today. Yes, Ruslan Alexiyovich. And, dear colleagues, I have to tell you that the "Smart Politics" team will vote in favour of this law. Because you are. Yeah, yeah. 12 hours without spam, my dear colleagues, 12 hours of believing that 11 billion dollars should be allocated to the army. You're funny, but I've never seen anything like it on 24.02. I didn't see the smiles I see in this room today. You always put it on a stretch. You're talking about how you're spending 190 billion on the U.S.S.S.A. and you're putting up your skins in parallel, about the ones I told you today. You leave the money on your phone, you leave the money on your ship, you leave the money where you can dust it. I'm sorry. In particular, I would like to thank all the colleagues who stayed in the hall yesterday and worked. In particular, I would like to thank Mrs. Podlasi, whom I absolutely disagree with about this bill and the distribution that did not provide an additional 11 billion dollars to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. But she spent the day professionally, she answered all the questions or almost all the questions, unlike other members of the parliament who instead of working, went to the booths and sat down. You should be ashamed, ashamed of our defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, we have completed the amendments that have been proposed. Anyone else want to make adjustments? No, it's not. Thank you. Dear colleagues, would anyone like to make adjustments for confirmation? There are hands. Please, Irina Volodymyr. Then Demchenko will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Ruslan. Make sure I'm there, please give me five minutes, I'll make five amendments, and I'll put the microphone back on, please. First, 96, 70, 90, 595 and 616. Please, I will now express our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u219	No, no. If five minutes for five straights, please, Irina Volodymyrna. 70th, please, Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u220	Thank you. It's a technical amendment. I'm very glad that now all the colleagues are in the session room, it's about the hospitals, and it's about what the hospitals were, and the medical centers that were destroyed by the invaders of the Russian Federation. Perhaps in this room only a few people, including Mrs. Roxolana, really, and our faction, read all the amendments, prepared our amendments in order to first find the maximum amount of expenses that can be spent on the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We are glad that our amendment to increase the funding of consular centres has been taken into account, because they have tripled today, ten times, but there are no catastrophic costs. And it was "European Solidarity" that raised this issue to the government that 1 billion 400 million actually in this bill were raising more than just consular expenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u221	Thank you. Committee position. Dear colleagues, one second. Before Rocsolana Andriyevna responds, I ask you to take your seats, because we will now vote for the amendments that are considered by the committee, but which are in favour of confirmation. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I'm sorry, you voted, now someone else says she wasn't voted. Roxolano Andriyovno, your position is 70.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, Amendment 70 changes the order of the Fund for the Elimination of the Consequences of Armed Aggression. We are adding a new direction of liquidation that health - care facilities that have been damaged or destroyed by Russian aggression can be financed explicitly from the liquidation fund. They were still funded from the liquidation fund, but some communities needed this legal definition, so I suggest we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone understands. 70 amendments to the authorship of the People's Deputy of the Road are taken into account by the committee. At the same time, National Deputy Heratchenko is asking for this amendment, which is the decision of the committee to confirm. I'm going to put the 70th bill on confirmation. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:12:23]] For 292 Decision taken. Next amendment 90. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u224	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Roxolano, indeed, you and I are among the few people in this room who have read all the amendments. And this is the 90th amendment on a very important subject: tariffs for medical facilities. We support this amendment, but I want to hear from you, Mrs. Roxolano, next and this is very important indeed. We see in this draft budget there are unconfirmed costs that you're spending on increasing spending, including external savings -- 91 billion and internal savings -- 207 billion. While we've been proposing our amendments, you'll find 10 billion as a minimum of dollars to save from the baby, from the D.B., from the marathon, and so on, and they'll go to the fares, and to the hospital, and to the other expenses that are set up in this budget, and they're very important. And that's exactly the kind of professional discussion we wanted, Mrs. Roxolano. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u225	Roxolano Andriyovno, I would like to ask for this amendment what position, without going into any other discussion, 90 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u226	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u227	Amendment number 90 taken into account by the committee in part. In part, it says that we are entrusting the Cabinet of Ministers with a period of military status when calculating the National Health Service tariffs, i.e. when calculating the value of the package, to consider applying a higher coefficient of at least 3.0 for rehabilitation packages and treatment of military personnel. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, 90 amendments to the authorship of National Deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna and colleagues. It's part of the committee's agenda. So I'm betting, at the same time, National Deputy Heratchenko is asking for this decision to confirm, so I'm proposing to confirm amendment 90 in an editorial that is part of the committee. And I'm putting this proposal in the hall. Please vote. [[13:14:57]] For 295 Decision taken. Out of procedure, please. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u229	Thank you, Mr. Head. It actually looks kind of weird when a faction puts the amendment to the confirmation and then votes for it. [[Applause]] So maybe I'd like to ask this faction, maybe you don't have to fix it if you support it anyway? If you just need to talk about something, it's a little different story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u230	Please, next amendment 96. Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u231	Thank you, Your Honor. Mrs. Roxolana and I are not only members of Cercas but also members of parliament who have read all the amendments to this bill. Not many people did. In fact, 96 amendments apply to ours with you, dear Mrs. Roxolano, the subject of the Church. These are local budgets and subsidies. And I'm asking these questions so that we can hear an explanation of these amendments and make decisions from our faction whether to support it or not. And we're glad that it's not 20 people's deputies in Parliament right now, it's 320. You're here at last. Although this is very true, as in the U.S. Congress, as in the U.S. Senate, as in every civilised parliament, when the amendment work goes from amendment to amendment (and it doesn't count as tired) 12 hours. In Chercas, as in other regions of Ukraine, they are very concerned about what will happen to the subsidies, whether or not they will be taken from October 1st this year by changes to the budget this year. And please, Mrs. Roxolano, your explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u232	Please, within 96 corrections, not everything we've heard here. Please, Roxolano Andriyovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u233	The 96 amendment says that we are making the remainder of the subsidies available to local budgets under a loan from the European Investment Bank for the restoration of infrastructure and housing and utilities. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u234	Thank you. When was your name? That was when we looked at it. No, no, not now. Dear colleagues, the 96 revision of Kaptielov's authorship. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is this when Alexi spoke before? Let's vote. Dear colleagues, the right to repeat is granted immediately, not in 2 hours. Dear colleagues, the 96 revision of Kaptielov's authorship. Listen! One second! Let's finish the law. For us, priority is not the internal narcissism of the people sitting in this room. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the 96 amendment, it's partially counted, it's the authorship of the People's Deputy Kaptielov. At the same time, Deputy Heratschenko asks that the Committee's decision to consider the amendment in part be confirmed. I'm putting this amendment in the editorial form where it's partially accounted for, and I'm asking you to vote. [[13:18:44]] For 303 Decision taken. Please, Heratschenko, what's your next amendment? 595th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u235	Thank you, Your Honor. It is very important for us to hear the committee head’s explanation. And notice the other committee heads from the People's Servant to clarify the content of the amendment. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u236	Can I make it up to you?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u237	I'm asking you not to comment on me. You're equal to the equal.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u238	And I'm asking for an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u239	595 amendment is the amendment of the people's deputies of the Oblivion. And Mrs. Podlas and I are not the only ones who read it in the session room. It refers to social expenditure: payments to people. Well, actually, wages in the social sector are extremely important, but at the same time, this bill raises wages not just in the social sector, but in the social media, in the BEB and in other structures that don't exactly fight, you know, not on the front, not on the other front, and that kind of thing. And we offered to find another 10 billion to give them to the military, to the medics, to the educated, where there are really problems with payouts today. Mrs. Roxolana, unfortunately, didn't support it, and we'd like to hear if you were in 590.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u240	Please hold position 595.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u241	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm only making adjustments. The 590 amendment is proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u242	595.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u243	The 595 amendment proposes to the Ministry of Social Policy within the framework of one programme, "Leading and Governance in Social Policy", to redistribute 5.6 million dollars from development spending to consumption costs. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, everyone understands the position. 595 amendment of the authorship of the National Deputy of Oblivion. She is listed by the committee, but the National MP Heratschenko is asking for such a decision to confirm. I'm putting 595 amendments on confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:20:57]] For 299 Decision taken. Next amendment, and final, by Heratchenko, 616. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u245	Thank you. Mrs. Roxolano, as you know, you and I have read all the amendments, unlike the other 300 deputies in the hall, and this is the amendment of the Iron National Deputy. It refers to an important subject: Helping people in difficult circumstances. At the same time, I want to make sure that this amendment then applies to the categories that you added to this draft budget, such as the BEB, as the DBR to which they added: 220 to the BBB billion, 214, more faithfully, millions to the Kabmin, to their Secretariat. They are also people in difficult circumstances. Was it not important to consider our adjustments to add another 10 billion dollars to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to the medical profession, to the doctors, to the wounded, to those who lost their homes? They are truly people in difficult circumstances. This bill, the friends we're discussing right now, is correct, but another 10 billion could be added. And that's why we've been fighting for 12 hours, and we're sorry that some of the amendments you didn't support with us, that it would be more perfect, this bill, this is what we're talking about. And I'm sorry there's so little professional here.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u246	Please, 616 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u247	616 The amendment of the Ironworks complements the amendment with the amendment of the Getmanszewa No. 870. The national deputy of the Hetmans proposes to withdraw funds from the Bureau of Economic Security. and Ironborn suggests that the same funds be used to support internally displaced persons. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u248	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, 616 amendments to the authorship of Ironborn, Clumsy, and the Cabal. It's taken into account by the committee in part. At the same time, Heratschenko asks the committee to make such a decision for confirmation. I'm going to put 616 amendments in the form where it's included in the partial for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:23:08]] For 302 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next, I know, there was an amendment to Demchenka, please. What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u249	1017th for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u250	1017th. Please be reasonable.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u251	Thank you. Colleagues, Amendment 1017 refers to an increase in the budget for executive power in the Kyiv region by 35.5 million dollars. I have a question, at the beginning of the year, when we formed a budget with you in the 23rd year, we took all the funds from all the executive bodies, all the areas: the Kharkiv region, the Dnipropetrov region, the Sumskie region, the Zaporezian region, and so on. And somehow now we're returning the funds exclusively to the Kyiv region. What is it that causes this kind of priority that they're protecting our country now, that they're more likely to be hit by the enemy? Why don't we give these funds to the Sumskie District, Kharkiv Region, Zaporozhi, where doctors have nothing to pay for, get a salary right now? Why is that a choice, I don't understand, colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u252	Please, the position of the committee, the honourable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u253	Amendment 1017 is an amendment by Andrija Motovilovac to withdraw funds from the Bureau of Economic Security and refer to the Kyiv Regional Government Administration. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u254	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 1017th amendment of the National MP Motovilovitsa. She's a committee member. At the same time, the National MP Demchenko is making this amendment, this decision of the committee to confirm. Dear colleagues, I'm putting on a 1017th amendment for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:25:09]] For 214 The decision is not taken. The amendment is considered rejected. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next amendment, Eugene. Repair number right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u255	Amendment 529. Dear colleagues, this amendment proposes to reduce the expenditure of 27 million dollars from the Ministry of Defence under the programme "Provision of the Armed Forces, the provision of a special warehouse for military veterans and their families" and to refer to the programme for the formation of the statutory capital of the state-owned enterprise "The Defense Procurement Agency". I'm surprised, in fact, that you didn't listen constructively to the dialogue that was here yesterday. And in fact, Mrs. Roxolano and the members of the committee, what you've been advised to use, which was planned for the holding fund, by adopting changes to the legislation that all the payouts paid after the war could also be directed towards the formation of statutory capital. But certainly not to take away from such important programs of the Ministry of Defense. Please don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u256	The position of the Committee on 529 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, the budget committee was asked by Defence Minister Rustem Umerov to transfer 27 million dollars to form the statutory capital of the Agency for purchases in the area of defence that had just been created. It was his decision and we supported him.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u258	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 529 amendments to the authorship of the national deputy of the Cabal. It's taken into account by the committee, this amendment is taken into account. At the same time, Naina Petrovna, a national deputy, puts her in charge. It's a decision that the Southern makes to confirm. I'm putting 529 amendments on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:27:38]] For 275 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please, Nina Petrovna. Repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u259	Dear colleagues. 870. You don't listen to the end, and you think someone wants to do worse. No way. But taking it from the military, if there's another source to form statutory capital, that's obviously how it had to be done. 870. The authors of the sad bill on the creation of BEBs, the chromogenic organ that caused the largest, hundreds of amendments to the draft law, are now withdrawing themselves from its financing. And why is this only 870th amendment counted if, Mrs. Roxolana, hundreds of amendments are made to reduce funding? You play a game between your own, you want to make your own leaders there without listening to the thoughts of others. As a result, yesterday, how much time was spent discussing and justifying their revisions to a minus BEB. Now, tell me exactly how much remains to be financed by the BEB, taking into account your leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u260	Dear colleagues, 870 amendments. Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u261	Dear colleagues, I've talked about this before. Amendment 870 takes 82.5 million dollars from the Bureau of Economic Security. We offered to take more. But after the vote that Mr. Demchenko put on the amendment, 34.5 million remain in the BEB. So I'm asking you to support at least the Getmantsev amendment, because everything we've been fighting for here and for 20 hours will not be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u262	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll make 870 adjustments. This amendment of the authorship of the people's deputy Getmantsev is considered by the committee. You heard the committee's position. At the same time, Eugene asks for confirmation. I'm putting 870 revisions to Getmantsev's authorship for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:30:14]] For 293 Decision taken. Please, there was a replete on Demchenka, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u263	Mrs. Roxolano, I have all the respect, you know, for you, I'm very warm. But in spite of this, unfortunately, the formation or discussion of the relevant bill of 2023, which we are about to vote on, took place unconstructively – no one has heard the existence of really original costs that we should have settled, including issues related to the ranks and original composition of the relevant persons, whose debt is already in existence, starting in 2022. The country has declared a state of war, promised 30,000 dollars will be paid to the people. And to this day, he is avoiding these payments, regardless of the fact that there is even a court decision. Shame on us and shame on us for forcing an officer's warehouse to go to trial, forcing the funds that the state owes them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, what's the next amendment? Goncharenko. The repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u265	Goncharenko. Amendment number 894. I just want to explain to colleagues and colleagues and Ukrainian citizens what's going on. So, first of all, the proposal to add to the Economic Security Bureau, which, by the way, is completely governed by, like the State Tax Service, Mr. Danilo Hetmantsev, and through them is destroying the economy of the state, means adding more than 300 million dollars. And then they say, yeah, we're taking away from the baby, and they finally took away some 95 million dollars. This particular piece of paper takes 3 million dollars. But you have to take 3, you have to take all 300, and that's not happening. And that's what I'm saying. It is very important to hear what tax practice in Thailand may have been studied by Mikola Tishchenko, who finally appeared in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who is eager to say so. Mikola Tishchenko, where are the woods, where are the call centers? We're waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u266	Before we go to the construct, we first mentioned Getmantsev, then Tishchenka. Is there no objection to Tishchenka first? Please, Mikola Mikolaiovich. Then Danilo Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u267	I want to explain to my colleagues and Ukrainian citizens the behavior of Mr. When he worked as an MP in the city and district council, it was Wikipedia, the first thing he did was, along with other deputies, he supported the development of Russian language in Odessa, that is, from the stage of Odessa he urged Yanukovich. We all remember. So your presence in the room is not understood at all, so I'm asking Mr. Dusty: I'm asking you to remove this person from my faction and in general from the politics of Ukraine. You don't belong in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u268	Please have the right to repeat. Mr. Alexei! Mr. Alexi, look, this is Parliament, if you have to record the current, there's a farm leak, some other stuff, please, there. You were given a replica. All you've heard is, you've heard it, you've transfused it, even though I'm warning you once again that you're violating the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll pass the word to Daniel Alexander Gettmantsev and then we'll go to the construction, to Roxolana Andriyovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u269	Dear colleagues, 51 people were killed yesterday in the Kharkiv region as a result of a terrorist act by the Russian Federation. A child died this morning. I'm asking you to stop this in the hall after all! Until we do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u270	Stop! Stop, please, that's all, this farce! Hotchárenko, take your seats, please! If you do not understand, you are marked with a tablet. Please. Tischenka, take your seats, please. Sit down! Take your seats! Stop turning the Supreme Council into a mess. This attitude of people towards you is precisely because you do this, to treat you differently, and it's impossible. Circus and Shame! Take your seats, please! Alexei Hotcharenko, please take your seats! Stop it! Mikhail Raducci, take your seats! Raducci, take your seats! We are now considering the law for the military. Are you out of your mind? Sit down! Please, I want to pass on the word to Danil Alexander Gettmansev, because I think the things he said are much more important than what you're doing here. Danilo Alexandrovich, please. I'm sorry for the way your colleagues behaved.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u271	Thank you. Yesterday 51 people died in Kharkiv district. It's 55. And as a result of a terrorist act by the Russian Federation today, two people were killed in the city of Kharkiv in the middle of another terrorist act. We are now considering with you the law on the allocation of military funds for our victory. The people who are turning this process, this legislative process is very important for the country, for our children, for our future, for the farce, for the flow, we don't know what it is -- people who are working against our state. They're people who just call themselves patriots. These are the people who play Putin's hand and want to give him a gift. And we won't let you do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u272	Mikhailo Borisovich, Mikhailo Borisovich, now, let's vote on this amendment. Let's vote on the amendment. Let's vote, there's one more amendment, and the law as a whole. Let's put down a couple of bits. Rocksolana Andriyevna, would you please have something to add? I'll remind you that we're in Amendment 894. Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u273	Yes, I would like to say that amendment 894 was made to the Black Sea to provide water to regions that lost fresh water as a result of the destruction of the Kakhov GES in the Mikolai region. Please be supportive. And by the way, I'm also taking money off the baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u274	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 894 amendments to the authorship of Montenegro. At the same time, Honcharenko puts this amendment in place for confirmation. She's a committee member. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment. 894th. [[13:38:46]] For 308. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we can go to voting for the law as a whole. Please, dear fellows, thank God, this is coming to an end. Roxolano Andriyovno, a special thanks to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2923 on financial security for the security and defence sector and the resolution of priority issues (registration number 10038). Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote. [[13:39:55]] For 313 The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Alexander Sergiyovich, please. Show the factions, please. May I start with Alexander Sergiyovich's ladies?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u275	According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kisse Anton Ivanovich as part of the "Trust". Welcome. Similarly, according to the statement, I am reporting the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Minka Sergio Anatoliyovich as part of the "Trust" parliamentary group. Welcome. We also welcome the creation of the Interfractional MPs "Free Venezuela", co-heads – Zablotsky Marjan Bogdanovic and Netzko Alexander Alexandrovich. Welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u276	Thank you. From the procedure? First Raducci from the procedure, then Klimpush-Cincadze from the procedure. Please. The only thing is, don't give anyone the right to reply if you can. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u277	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I demand that you, as Ukrainian national deputy, comply with the requirements of the Supreme Council Order, which prohibits TV or any kind of online broadcast from the Supreme Council Hall during meetings. Those who do so should be deprived of the right to attend one plenary session.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u278	I think every time I do it twice or three, I encourage you not to do it. I think that maybe the regulatory committee should consider it if anyone asks him. Please, Your Honor, thank you. Dear colleagues, please Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u279	Thank you. And the next time, Mr. Head, please don't scream when you think someone needs to give his word and someone doesn't want to give it to them and determine their order. I'm not going to stand for this, because it's like we're moving to Europe with you. I have an offer that I ask to put to the vote. Please take up two ratifications 0226 and 0229 and put them to the vote now. These are ratifications, one about the exchange of information with the Swedish military and intelligence agencies, we need it for our Security Service. That's number one, 0229. And 0226 on Ukraine's integration into the Civil Protection Mechanism of the European Union, which we are already using, and we need to finally bring this ratification to an end and implement our internal state procedures in this direction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u280	On the one hand, don't yell, don't shout, there's this thing on the side that's shrinking or increasing, and there's this thing on the side of the pump. There is, of course, such a procedure, but I think that the laws that are now are more important. But I'm asking you to change the order of the day and now move on to the ratifications that Ivanna Orestovna mentioned. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. That's what I'm asking you to do. [[13:43:33]] For-119 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please move on. Have we made all the announcements, Alexander Sergiyovich? All announcements. Out of procedure, Demchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u281	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. My colleagues, I would like to point out that we already have more than ten sittings in order of a daily bill, which is very important, 5456-d. It refers to the existence of two Supreme Courts of Ukraine. It refers to the defamation of the labour rights of court officials who are now in a suspended condition for several years. It refers to our political face in the European arena. The European Court of Human Rights said more than a year ago that the issue should be resolved immediately. The bill voted by the committee, supported in the second reading, is considered to be well - received. Please lift it up and now vote before the issue of the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u282	Is he in the day-to-day?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u283	Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u284	Is he in the day-to-day?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u285	It was included in the front of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u286	I have doubts. Let's check it out. But, fellow believers, everyone has many questions. But I don't think there are any more important questions today than providing our army with weapons and money. There are no more important questions. Let's get this straight and get back to it. All of it. Dear colleagues. Arthur Volodymyrovich, for what? Dear colleagues, complete with the Herasim procedure, we move on to the next law. Please, Herasimov from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u287	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! First. Look how many national MPs are out of their seats now, moving around the hall and out of the hall, I'm against double standards. That's the first one. Secondly, just now, a national deputy from our faction, Alexi Honcharenko, has been attacked, openly, by a member of the "Serve of the People". But he was expelled from the "Serial of the People" faction. And you know, it's also, please, take care of yourself as the Head of the Supreme Council with this and give your assessment and your answer. Because, excuse me, attacking the deputy just because he's moving around the hall, look at how many people are moving now and make a note of them. Come on, somebody else is going to attack them for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u288	Dear colleagues, I call everyone to order. I call everyone to design and we move on to the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Maria, is this important right now? What? All of it. We entered Law 10037. Dear colleagues, entered Law 10037. Will anyone insist on his amendments? It will be. Then, as we did on the Conciliation Council with you and agreed, we're moving in that direction. One second, I can ask the representatives of the apparatus to come in. Come here. Please, 2 revisions. Unclusion will insist? It won't. Will it? It won't. 3 revisions. Heratchenka, Jonova. 1st count, that's what we are. 1st count. And we told you and I that we're going first to the amendments that are rejected, then that are counted. 3 revisions. Heratchenko, Jonova, Pavelenko, Klimpush-Cincadze. Which one of you, colleagues? Heratchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u289	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 3rd amendment is technical. Unfortunately, it is not counted. It only refers to the correct change in the title of this bill on "The Final and Transitional Provisions." But in general, we want to say that the philosophy of this bill is anti-constitutional, because they have to be managed by local budgets. These are taxes paid by the military at the site of the permanent location of the section, and it is obvious that these costs should go to support these parts. They should be distributed at the request of parts. Look what's going on in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u290	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Because, really, we can't even hear anything anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u291	Please. Mrs. Olena, I'm asking you to give me my minute back, because I'm saying I couldn't hear the correction. Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u292	Please take your seats. Anyone who would like to speak, please step out of the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u293	Dear voters, we've begun our consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u294	Please enable for one minute first.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Olena. We very much want this bill to be considered constructively. This is about PDF, which depends on the vitality of many regions today. Note that, unfortunately, the members of the Supreme Council began to leave the hall, and again, they were not interested in making adjustments. Our ideologies in terms of VAT, we suggest that this tax, according to legislation, remain in the region at the place of permanent deployment of the units that pay it to fund the purchase of weapons, that the drones go to the local authorities, and 30 percent to stay in the region and go to bomb shelters, repair parts and places of permanent deployment of military units, that's our ideology. And what I'm saying is that she was supported by dozens, about a hundred local councils. Regrettably, the Committee on Budgetary Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u296	I'm betting on the vote number three of the national deputies, Heratchenko, Ionova, Friz, colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:50:26]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next 4th. Gerasimov, Pavlovenko, Ariev Who's it gonna be? Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u297	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, this is a bill called that this is supposed to help the Armed Forces of Ukraine, but it's not that simple. This is about the PPF and the bill says that today we have to take the PPF into the local budgets. It's not enough that it's a sneak attack on decentralization, but just a few facts. The first is now more than 40 percent of the military PFC community spends on security and defence forces. In addition, it is local communities that bear the brunt of ensuring the uninterrupted functioning of the life support system of our citizens during the war. Hospitals, schools, local transportation. And this is especially true of communities in frontal and frontal areas. Although today the front territory is the whole country, unfortunately. That is why this law cannot be voted on. In the following amendments, we will surely confirm these facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u298	Please, the 4th edition of Gerasim, Pauline, Ariev. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:52:06]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Yeah, we've got a 6th, Friz. Don't insist. Rapina. Don't insist. Pasic - 7, 8. Don't insist. 9th. Grandma, Bacon. Don't insist. 10th. Smart guy, 10 percent. Mikisha. Who's it gonna be? Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, please. You're going back on the block, like on your system?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u299	Yes, Alexander Sergiyovich, let's take the block. 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. Give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u300	Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u301	And then we're going to move on, or we're going to move on, or we're going to move on, or we're going to move on, or we're going to move on, or we're Give it time from the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u302	Two minutes by four shifts from the start.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u303	Dear colleagues, if we are to gain a normal democratic state, we must have independent branches of power. Sadly, this is not the case today, but Parliament is not the subject. And I have to talk about it. And you understand that for yourself, because there's a lot of smart people in this room. In the same way, the Kabmin is incorruptible. The only subject we have is the President’s Office, as Daniel said in principle when he called you all tourists. I just want you to remember that by voting for specific laws that go into the hall. If we're talking about local self-government, during the 2019 elections, each of you, especially from a large size, talked about the fact that decentralization reform, including those who are now part of the Supreme Council's presidency, has been described as a serious effective reform that gives democracy the rule of law and the divisiveness of positions between the central and local authorities. Now you want to destroy it. The story is that you're taking these funds to help the army, it's not going to take any criticism, because you're taking these funds for completely other reasons: you want to destroy the local government so that it doesn't stop you from continuing to dust the budgets in the shelters, so that it doesn't stop you from doing budget dusting and teletaraphone, on the Ingletz series, on such disgraceful phenomena as "the gays," which for some reason is very supportive and, I understand, the leadership of Parliament, the head of Parliament and everyone else who voted for it. I really hope that common sense and intelligent politics in this room will prevail. Well, we'll help you with that, along with the "Smart Politics" team.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u304	Okay. Are we going to bet something or not? Okay. Next, Dmitri Alexanderovich, you still have the block: 15, 16, 17, 18, 19. Yeah? Can we do that? Turn on your mind, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u305	Alexander Sergiyovich, I have a request. We have a colleague of Petrunjak 15, 19, 22, 25, 27, give him the same 2 minutes with his replacement, and we'll keep moving if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u306	Say the numbers again. 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u307	15, 19, 22, 25, 27.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u308	19, 22, 27. How many minutes, Petrunjak?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u309	Two minutes, just like me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u310	Okay. Two minutes, Petrunjak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u311	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you. Look, this law is very vividly demonstrating, unfortunately, a sufficiently widespread principle of drafting and voting in our Supreme Council: it's when the idea is essentially beautiful, but unfortunately not very good. What am I trying to say? So the good idea is that extra funding for the security and defence bloc is clearly needed. But there's another side to this medal. And that's the other side, that's the local self-government. We can't take 100 percent of the military PFC into local self-government, because most of the local budgets, the left-hand side of these local budgets, are formed by this military PFC. This bill has been preceded by many rights that have suggested different formulas for the distribution of military PFCs. But unfortunately, all of these formulas weren't included. I think that some part of the military PDF should be left to local self-government anyway, because local self-government should plan its costs. There are protected expenditure articles, such as salary, energy, food, medicine, and so forth. So these protected expenditure articles, they've already been funded by this military PDF, and we can't take it into the community right now. I believe that the distribution of military PFCs should take place exclusively in the dialogue, in the dialogue with local self-government. And only after this dialogue is the military PFC, and clearly part of it has to be directed towards financing the security and defence sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u312	Thank you. Dmitry Alexanderovich, 14, 16, 17, 18. Okay? Yes, you don't. They insist. Please, Razumkov, from 14 to 18.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u313	No, you were wrong: 16, 17, 18, 20, 21. You see, we're decent people, we know exactly what we're talking about. Give me time from the beginning, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u314	From the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u315	Alexander Sergiyovich, I would just like to see the Chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine now. And I'd like people to look at it. Yesterday, several national deputies began putting out angry posts about how they were prevented from working. The Council worked 12 hours in a row, we wanted to, but we couldn't. And I just want you to take and put together how many of these deputies are in this room right now. Where do they work like that again? What nightclubs, what restaurants? What they do. The working day, not the 11th hour of the night, didn't even end the scheduled meeting of the Supreme Council, and they're gone again. They're talking about how they're fighting to add additional resources to our army with you, our protectors with you, and they're not actually there. So this is called double standards. I am grateful to you in this regard as the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, you sat down until the end of the meeting yesterday, you worked. Just like some of the other colleagues I see in the hall right now, no matter what they were here until 11:09, they came and worked today. They may not agree with my position, they may support it, or they may not support it, but it is their duty to work to make the laws more quality. Both me and my "Smart Politics" colleagues will do it. And the Facebook characters who wrote the post yesterday about how to love the Father, how to help the army, I don't see them in the hall today. I think all the voters will be able to compare who was where and who did what and then give what they did.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u316	Yes, please. Next, from 23 to 26, Dmitri Alexanderovich? 23 to 26 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u317	23rd, 24th. I'll tell you again, you're back in the second round, Alexander Sergiyovich. 23, 24, 26, 28 and 29.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u318	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u319	Our colleagues were there. But I thank you for the opportunity to speak more. Alexander Sergiyovich, I would like us not to translate from a healthy head into a sick person. Sadly, the number of VCAs can be described as a headache today. Not all of them were effective VCAs, which work and, fortunately, for example, Kirylenka Pavel Alexanderovich, who was taken from the Donetsk region and sent to a different direction of work, so direct evidence. But we've got other people working here: we've got some majors from Kiev, where they're called VCAs. Why so - called? Because they take the money and direct it to the designers. Something I haven't seen of these people's deputies saying is that the president's vertical is making a big mistake, that these people should not just be released, they should be sent to prison. Rather, start criminal cases so that they can be handled and understood why they did so. Why do they have a few hundred thousand bucks? Where did the money from the designers go? Where did the money from the so-called shelter restoration go, which is not available? And a lot of other things. So I really don't like double standards, and I hope that the majority of Kievers will have enough conscience to come to their electorate and explain it. But I hope so, but I doubt it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u320	Dmitri Alexanderovich, and you've got this block here, I see it's uninterrupted, right up to the 45th, 50th. Maybe we're 10 minutes, not so you don't break up. Because you have a thought, you know. As public speakers, we know that it is better to speak longer. Let's take 10 minutes and we'll see who's still out there. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u321	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, for the appreciation of my professional qualities. Then let's go to 59. Everything's gonna be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u322	Great. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u323	Yeah. Thank you. And it'll be easier for your colleagues. But if we're talking about the local authority in which you decided to take the money today, why you're doing it for political reasons, colleagues, and you know it. The question is not in money, but the question is to destroy the entire structure, the entire vertical that is today. And I'm surprised at the positions of many majors primarily from the People's Servants who are going to vote for this. And when I ask you a question, you realize that it's going to be hard for you to come back after you do that, and in winter, when the guys are going to fight again, and the VCA won't prepare the heating infrastructure again, the power infrastructure, the power supply, it won't prepare for the winter period, and it's going to get to the rasist shells, just like they didn't do last year, it's going to be your responsibility, people will come to you, sometimes they'll even come to you home. But unfortunately, I look into my colleagues' eyes, and I don't see that. I don't know what's going on, why it's like this, because a lot of the, a lot of the right, a lot of smart people came in in the 19th year, I don't know why they're doing this today, with all due respect for you, an inadequate position. What is happening today? What's happening today is that local authorities want resources, and I'm not talking about separate disgraceful cases, I don't really understand how during war you can translate nuisances, I don't understand how in frontal areas you can put stadiums, how you spend money on boards, and that kind of thing is 100 percent wrong. Just as wrong as it was during the war, when my colleagues and I went to a freed Herson, central authorities were doing reconstruction and construction of the clothing line, for example. It's absolutely wrong, it's the billions of bracelets that just buried in the ground, rolled into the asphalt. And I didn't hear any serious statements from Kabmin, and unfortunately, I didn't hear statements from the National Deputies -- they all bowed their heads silently and watched how the President's Office did it, at that moment, Kirilo Timoshenko, who, it turns out, thanks to the Pecher Court, was not guilty of anything, and, I think, for many, this has become great news, but let's see. If. Turning to the question of taking money, the local authorities demonstrated themselves largely effectively, starting on February 24, 22, when, unlike central authority, which unfortunately was not ready for war, because they thought it would not be, the local authorities took full responsibility and began preparing cities, communities for defence and for providing basic living conditions for those who lived there. If you and I remember this time period, even most of the Cabinet of Ministers just went outside Kiev, hid in Western Ukraine, hid in the "Uzhgrad boiler", hid in Chernów, in the Ivano-Frankiv region, instead of staying here, staying in Kiev and being prepared for everything. In this regard, I would like to thank the fellow Parliamentarians who were here. I said that today, I'll always say that the MPs didn't run away. I know they don't like the national MPs of Ukraine, our voters are with you already, but objectively so. And the local authorities were here: both the local authorities of Kiev, and the local authorities of Kiev, and the local authorities of Kharkiv, and the local authorities of Sum and other territories that were affected by the Russian invasion. Mary and the heads of OTG remained in their seats, organizing the lives and livelihoods of these areas. But today you want to take away a resource from them that, if taken away 24.02, would not give them the opportunity to organize these processes. Well, I just wouldn't. If you had taken him away after the racists had been expelled from those areas, they would not have been able to restore their damaged infrastructure. And very often the central authority, instead of helping, hindered it. I can give you examples in the Sumskie region. My team and I, as we passed through these areas, crossed the front lines several times. We regularly go to the front, and me, and my colleagues in "Smart Politics," we've had a lot of communication with people, and most of the time they're grateful to the local authorities for how she behaved after a full-scale invasion as opposed to the central one. I think that many of the colleagues who are driving will be able to confirm this, and those who have not been driving, I think that it would be good to break away from the happy Kiev and go and talk to our defenders, as well as the inhabitants of those villages, cities, territorially united communities that are freed and that today we feel more war than we feel with you. If we take away such military PFCs, what you're proposing in this law, for example, the city of Kharkiv, which is spoken of today by both Dmitri Mikisha and other colleagues from this city who represent and defend the interests of their area, will lose, if I'm not mistaken, 3.4 billion dollars next year. If you're taking away military PFCs, you're actually destroying their ability to survive, not even live, in war conditions. I'd understand if you had this discussion back in the PDF area that's further away from the front line. If we're talking to you about areas that are directly on the front line, I think that's perfectly logical, because they survive exclusively on the account of PDF, the military PFC. There's no cities, there's no businesses, there's a lot of people out there, there's a lot of energy infrastructure to be restored, there's water to be restored, there's sanitation to be restored, there's heat to be restored. The central authority does not do that, and the local authorities do that. I'm talking to a lot of colleagues from different OTGs from different cities, and they're saying they're helping the army, and the army confirms it. If we talk to our defenders, they say, "Precisely." And on the front line, when we're there, we're being assisted by the local authorities, they're returning some of these units, they're buying them what they need. On the other hand, even when boys and girls go on a rotation, they are in other cities, and so are the local authorities. It gives them and objects, it helps with repairs, it helps with repairs of equipment, it helps with repairs of technology, it helps with the restoration of this technique, it helped and bought for them and jeeps, and it bought for them pickups, and it bought for them drones, and it bought for them armoured vests that were not, unfortunately, at the time of full-scale invasion, when we could not properly reconcile defence purchases for two years and were not ready for the 24th as necessary. So to take this resource away from them is absolutely pointless, and to take away the manipulations of the lump, 100 percent, remove the manipulations and attempts to "make money" (in paws) in stadiums - 100 percent, but as with the central authorities, in the Cabinet, in the VCA, which is, on the other hand, more loyal, sorry, which is the direct area of responsibility of the President, his Office and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, where he works, on the one hand, many professional people, and, on the other hand, more people who happen to be in these positions solely to make money during the war, instead of helping the territories survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u324	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Let's move on. Without a car, yes, accounted for. Please, 61st. Alexiyczuk, why don't you take it now? That's your 61-a. Three minutes, huh? Three minutes, Alexiyczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u325	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. I have a number of rights, and they all apply to the issue of the distribution of military PFCs. Questions about the relationship between local government, central government, and the distribution of this VAT and military assistance. Today, there is no doubt that we must be alone in our thoughts, our sole purpose, and our unity in order to achieve the desired goal that we all have and for which our military, our volunteers, and all Ukrainian citizens are fighting. So my revisions would be aimed at finding this balance and compromise, where we're going to go to the central budget for the acquisition of drones, for the acquisition of ammunition, for the acquisition of artillery systems. At the same time, I was allowing my rights to allow local self - government to also respond to requests and to respond to the needs with which military officials today come to local self - government. I thank, of course, the committee that adopted the bill today, which allows us to direct a portion of the military PDF directly to the military parts that pay it, is really a key thing. But at the same time, we need to understand that in communities, in the back communities, there are children of military personnel, there are families of military personnel, and these communities also need funds to hide. These communities need funds to create rehabilitation centers. These communities need funds because they too will come to the local authorities to help as quickly as possible. So a number of my amendments were about this. And in general, when we approach the concept of drafts, when we approach the concept of rights, we need to understand that the key here is compromise, we need to unite to win, and at the same time we need to allow the authorities of local self-government not to stop their development, because when we stop the mahogany, it's very difficult to run it again. So I'm calling for balance and I'm calling for the support of the local self-government bodies that came in the first days of the war side by side with the military, with the TRO and all of them giving way to the Russian Gulf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u326	Thank you. Password does not insist. 62. 63. Mazurash, give me three minutes, and you'll tell me which one you want to put. Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u327	George Mazurashu, Servant of the People, 203 District. I'll bet you 294. It applies to not all 100 percent, but 85 percent from the military and others involved from the crackdown on racist aggression in the budget. But now I'd like to say something else. Every time you visit boys on the front line, and I just got back from Donetskina, from Constantine and other cities where our boys are defending our country, I always want to say something in Parliament emotionally, even though I try to keep my emotions down. You know, a lot of military, you could say, even hate Parliament. And this hatred, let's say, is being imposed somewhere by a commanding force, military leadership, and I'm wondering why they're doing it. But I appeal to us, as a parliament, to our colleagues so that we can understand why we're getting all these stones into our city. Because when you talk to the boys, many of the problems they talk about are made by decisions, whether it's the Ministry of Defense or the government, but they're all about Parliament. And you can see why. Because they didn't elect a minister of defense -- we're assigning him, they didn't choose a government -- Parliament appoints him. So they have a claim to those whom they have chosen, and they would like us to put positive pressure on executive authority to avoid all the problems they face in particular. They would like to see the funds put into the budget quicker to be used effectively. They ask why we don't communicate openly with society. They ask, don't we understand, for example, that the trek that makes soldiers out on the streets, grabbing people and actually stealing that it doesn't help the army, and vice versa, it only makes things worse. Do we not realize that we should not treat citizens as slaves? And it seems that we as a state treat citizens as slaves, restricting the exit even to national MPs, let alone other categories. They ask, don't we understand that boys usually have to take vacations? We're saying that we've decided here in Parliament, and everything there is decided by the commanders. They ask why you have to flip 500 bucks just to get them to become a fighter, and other problems. I wish we didn't hide our heads in the sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u328	Please, I'll bet you the number 294 of the Mazurasu People's Deputy. It's rejected by the committee. Now I'm going to look at her for a second and make sure it's all right. We'll be back at 62, it's okay. It's just that Masurasu wants to stop going back to his right to save his nervous system a little bit. Please, yes, 294 editing Mazurash. Please vote, the committee is dismissed. [[14:19:58]] For-30 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Let's go back to the table. 64. Alekseus is. Is he going to be? Don't insist. Bondar, 65. You will? Don't insist. Kisilevski. Don't insist. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich. He's gone. Dmitri Alexanderovich, you've got a block there, till the '70s. 68, 69, 70. Two minutes? Please, Brainy, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u329	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, absolutely correct. This is a proposal made by the Association of Cities to ensure the sustainability of local communities in the face of war, to allow for an increase in local debt, a total of local debt, and guaranteed by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, a district council or a local community debt at the end of a budget period that cannot exceed 300 per cent of Kiev’s budget, 500 per cent of the average debt of the local budget’s general fund, which came in over three previous budget periods. That's an important proposition. Because cities and communities are not the only ones living in debt today, the whole nation now lives in debt. You and I saw a budget project for 2024 where the government debt deficit is 50 percent. And unfortunately, we don't understand the kind of international policy that is being pursued today by both the ICC and not just the ICC when we're trying to beat up pots with all our partners. And we see a deterioration in the perception of Ukraine in the international arena. I am very ashamed and sorry that we, as a parliament today, do not try to do so. Unfortunately, even Alexander Sergiyovich Kornienko and Olena Kostovna are tourists in bathing suits just like all other national MPs. That is what the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine said. Although it was necessary to pay the dues, colleagues traveled extensively and represented Ukraine in various forums, and in the same way in various fields, defending Ukraine’s position. So we need to work on this in order to make this debt that we're collecting, it's really being used effectively, and to make sure that the borrowings that are needed by the states are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u330	Thank you. That's it. Set it up? It's not yours anymore. Should I put these three together? Okay. I'm betting on the vote number. One, 68. 68. I am voting for the people's MP Razumkov and colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[14:23:11]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Another one? By factions, yes, show me, please. Please. Yeah, 71st, Alexiyczuk. Don't insist. 72nd. Don't insist. 73rd. Don't insist. 74th, Fatherland. Please, Eutuszek, 10 minutes, Fatherland. You're making all the changes. Okay. Okay. Please, 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u331	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, for days our faction has had the opportunity to meet two leaders of the central authorities in Ukraine, this is the Ministry of Development, Kamishin, who has given us a clear figure that he needs in order to complete all the tasks this year. This figure is only 4.5 billion dollars when we talk about this year. And of course, we've met with the head of the State Department, which provides the production of drones that are very much needed on the front, there's a little bit more than 8 billion. At once, I wonder why there is still a much larger amount being removed from local self-government by taxes on the income of members of the armed forces of all, without exception, who are in the pursuits, this is both the DSNS, and the National Police, and the military, and all of them, and even those who were, worked before the beginning of the full-scale invasion. So the "Fatherland" faction came very professionally to this question, and I'm going to try to reveal the essence of our position, because we totally don't mind, and more than that, we thanked these two central authorities for their work. But there's another question, the question of justice that I'm going to talk about repeatedly in my speech. And the second context, there's a question about changing the course of the state. We've been talking about a government institute that's been called professionally through discussions, discussions, publicizing decision-making in the lower administrative and territorial units of government. Unfortunately, in view of this revolutionary bill, 10037, we clearly understand that the tightening of financial resources, which was provided as a basic tax for PDF in the community, is being absorbed into the central budget and there is another issue: the question of justice. Unfortunately, we see that wages continue to be financed by the boards of supervisors, and that is hundreds of thousands of dollars per month, heads of state enterprises, immediately increasing funding for various ministries. Today, colleagues spoke about this and rightly focused on it. We're also seeing the direction of financial resources to film different shows and different kinds of things that we don't think they're going to be able to bring about anything at all. So the people's institution, the local self-government authorities, we think that this bill is clearly destroying the entire system of defense that has been built since the first day of a full-scale invasion, because the local communities, together with the military, have not asked where to take the money, where to take the technology, what to supply it, in the first few minutes, began to provide it. And you know, the total amount of help from local self-government is 80 billion dollars, both direct and indirect. Any military unit, the commander, sending a letter, immediately, sometimes even on the same day, received this assistance. And now, unfortunately, when we talk about the fairness of removing these funds from the local budgets into the state budget, no one will see the distribution. We've only seen corruption scandals, which, by the way, have covered up not anti-corruption bodies and power structures, but journalists. And we'd like to put a lot of money on wages in the force structure to work professionally and cover up this apprentice called corruption. I also want to say that we totally don't understand that it's fair to allocate a salary increase of 22 billion, which Julia Timoshenko has been talking about, criticizing for the next year the budget, the executive branch, the Bureau of Economic Security, other ministries and departments, which have somehow not increased their numbers, but instead are getting extra revenue. So when it comes to local self-government, by the way, today the Prime Minister of Ukraine has repeatedly drawn attention to a memorandum signed by Prime Minister Schmidt and, on the other hand, by the Association of Ukrainian Cities, where it was clear that "employers and officials of local self-government authorities, do not raise tariffs for the population" which was accepted on the bottom, in the bottom chains of governance positive. But instead, you have 4 percent as compensation. And second moment. That's the difference in tariffs. The state of affairs today, even the Prime Minister, today appealing to this document under the name of a memorandum, does not say a single word that these 36 billion tariff differences are not returned to local self-government. And this is the beginning of the heating season. So, dear fellows, I'm also addressing the issue of government competence. After writing in Law 10037 clearly on October 1, the removal of the military’s VAT into the state budget, it seems that in the government, in the ministries that took care of it and developed the document, the people were completely qualified. For one simple reason: local governments, communities wrote all their programs at the beginning of the year, discussed them, approved them in plenary sessions, made monthly appointments, and were now forced to make decisions suddenly, quickly, revolutionaryly. And that's 2,000 communities in Ukraine. How to get out of this situation physically, give an answer. No one's answering. We don't even understand who to discuss with, because at the beginning of the Ministry of Finance sent letters to the heads of the district military administrations, who, using their resources and pressures, started acting and pushing communities, said don't raise the wave of discontent, but at the same time, once again, I say, it's about justice. And when it comes to justice, we can immediately mention a reverse grant. The reverse in the starting position of the bill was also deleted. But at the same time, there's been some kind of discussion, and I see that the Committee on Budgets and Finance is not fair in terms of small communities, so if you'll excuse me for my slang, that is, staying in places, but instead for small communities, no one thinks at all. So once again, the question of justice opens up, because you can rightly say, sorry, not all the territorial communities are coming from the military PFC. Yes. But there is a simple answer to this question: In all, without the exclusion of communities, teachers, doctors, and all other categories are mobilized and are already serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And this base tax just doesn't have to be collected just for the reason that it's about the existence of these territorial communities, these small communities. But we see that if district communities are still able to spend a lot of resources, but to survive, small communities are the question of their survival. So the Fatherland faction is very firm in understanding this violent injustice, and it's very clear that in the government, there would be people who are just good at it, because at this time, there would be crisis managers who would see what's going on in the government at the bottom and look for answers to these questions. So once again, we're dividing the position on financing the provision of money for the production of weapons, drones and all that, but a source of funding. Still, it's only fair to take away from those masculinities, so if you'll excuse me for my emotions, which are 100, 200, 300,000 wages on boards and other boards, and return to the local communities. We don't touch local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u332	Thank you. It was 74th, if I'm not mistaken, the amendment, right? Now, one second, colleagues. Next. Well, 74th and all? Thank you. Next. 75 Amendments, Savrasov, Alekseiv Who's it gonna be? Saurasov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u333	Thank you. Not many chances, but I'll try. My amendment repeats the amendment by Dmitri Alexandrovich Razumkov and refers to the debts of local councils. Many local councils appealed to the deputies to support this amendment, but it was rejected. And the city of Kiev. I would like to hear the committee's position, which is why we have rejected this amendment, and how many votes will support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u334	Thank you. 75 repairs to Savrasov. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ah, an explanation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u335	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Colleagues not supported. It's about the marginal amount of local debt and the guaranteed debt. It is now set at 200 percent of the average income of the local budget general fund in three years. 500 percent is offered. It can lead to economic instability and local budgets to negative consequences and inability to account for those debts. Therefore, such an amendment is not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u336	Thank you. Savrasov’s 75th Amendment, Alekseiv The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[14:35:44]] For-26 The decision is not taken. 76th Amendment, Krulko. Don't insist. 77th, Purtova. Don't insist. 78th, Mikisha. Please, Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u337	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Look, it's 10037 -- it's a sequel, actually, even though it precedes 10038. And that's the money, first of all, that's required for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And what the Armed Forces of Ukraine are fighting for is drones, other military technology that is being developed, can and should be developed accordingly by our intellectual capabilities and abilities, these are scientists. And this National Research Fund bill, it's not resourceable, there's no money. See, what an interesting story: A completely independent fund exists separately, all separately, except that money goes through the Ministry of Education and Science. It's hard to understand why the fund absolutely gives grants to scientific research that will help both the U.S.S.S. and everything else, all on its own, and the money goes through the Minosvets. So I'm asking for a separate code for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u338	Thank you. Do we have to bet on confirmation? The 78th Amendment of Mikishi and Shpak is rejected by the committee. I'll bet this amendment on it. Please vote. [[14:37:28]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 79, Mikisha, Shpak, Babi. Who's it gonna be? Mikisha, right? Please, 79th. Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u339	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Look, once again, we're going back to the efficiency of using the funds that can be diverted to the military and the funds that are being used. In this case, it's a bill for the State Regional Development Fund, which is going to go to regional development, but we see that, first of all, regional policy is now, although it is, but it's in such an all-inclusive way. And it's my job to help this fund work effectively so that regional policy really works in the way it is, is effectively used and worked. And this is exactly the right thing to do to eliminate regional commissions at the State Regional Development Fund. We're all in charge of cleaning up this corrupt component at last, and the fund started working even with the changes that have already taken place. If we clean up the regional commissions and the new changes will greatly improve our existence.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u340	79 of Micah’s Amendments and Colleagues The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[14:39:05]] For-29 The decision is not taken. 80th, Chulak. Don't insist. 81st, Mama doesn't insist. 82nd, Francis Igor. Don't insist. And Mazurashu has already filmed me told. Yeah? All your changes. Thank you. 84th, Krulko. Don't insist. 85th, Alekseyev. Please, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u341	Dear colleagues, this bill on local budgets. About the funds that should remain in local budgets from the payment of VAT. With the 85th Amendment, we are making changes to the composition of incomes that relate to the general fund of the State budget of Ukraine, which is that the income tax of the natural persons being paid is counted in accordance with the Tax Code of Ukraine of 21 per cent in the respective territories of Ukraine, except for the territory of Kiev and Sevastopol, and 60 per cent in the territory of Kiev. So this right over here, we've reduced the interest rate by 25 percent compared to this right over here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u342	Thank you. We have to bet on confirmation, right? I'll bet you 85, Aleksiev. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:40:25]] For-26 The decision is not taken. 86th Amendment, Petrunjak. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u343	There are three orders: 86, 93, 95. Give me two minutes and we'll walk him through.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u344	Yes, please. 93, 95.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u345	First, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u346	First, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u347	Thank you. Dear colleagues, they offer these three rights, they are identical, to consolidate at the level of the Budget Code, which is included in the income of the general budget fund of rural, rural, territorial communities of 64 percent. In fact, that's what's happening, but the central authority has a batik that they can add these 4 percent or not add. So it's for the so-called trades, and behind the scenes, the local authorities are speaking frankly about it, and it's not very much the central authorities are hiding it. That's not right, because it's kind of a corruption that needs to be fought at different levels and in different formats, because corruption is not always money for services, it's service for services. So our "Smart Politics" team suggested that 64 percent be fixed at the law level so that no more manipulation would take place so that no more trades and things like that would happen. This proposal is supported by the Association of Cities and supported, I hope, by the people's deputies who are not back in the hall today, but about this, I think we can talk a little bit later. And, Ruslan Alexiyovich, so I'm asking you to put 86 or 95 votes, and see how many national MPs, first of all, are concerned about their territories, are concerned about their communities. And at the end of my speech, I would like to turn to you, Yuri Mikhailovich, to give you information about why the committee rejected this amendment, even though there is practice that they should get 64 percent anyway. Thank you. I've got nine more seconds. Why are our adjustments rejected: 86, 93, 95?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u348	The position of the committee on these three amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u349	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Committee position. There is no support for an amendment in view of the fact that the information we received from the Ministry of Finance will cost 16.2 billion dollars to the State Budget General Fund under the conditions of 2024. And you're right, mate, you said there's 64 in the complex direction, 910th, predicted, so I think we'll get to it. And this is not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u350	Thank you. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'll put the 86th, if you don't mind. I put 86 amendments to the authorship of Dmitry Razumkov and colleagues, which was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:43:36]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the next 87th amendment, but I have information that Larissa Bilozer, instead of, I have nine amendments written there. You want to take (how much?) Five minutes? Yeah? How much? Wait a minute. Please, Mrs. Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u351	Dear colleagues, I want to remind you, and this whole situation that's happening with the half-empty hall reminds me of a thing like Peter Braegel's painting of the Tower of Babel, and it's really building a tower that is magnificent, beautiful -- it's about our decentralization, I'm doing the analogy. And we see that it's been built and gone for many years, and it's being destroyed -- it's like a great thing, but there's no end and no end, and we understand that the lack of common language, dialogue, trust between those who build it is causing the destruction of this tower. I think so. I'm afraid we're ruining decentralization, that we haven't found this balance between the back and the front. This is definitely what we are in today's war, and we definitely need to channel all the funds to defense and security. But my position is unalterable. Many national deputies have also introduced such regulations to keep 50 percent of the tax on the income of members of the military. But for security and defense, and for critical expenses, for school, for gardens, for shelter, because. And give 50 percent to the Mini-Defense, not to the Special Forces, which is actually very difficult to control. I'd also like to pay attention, we need this control function to do and create a commission to look at where these funds are going, where they're going, whether they're actually going to go on drones, what graph of the production of these drones, weapons and so on, because we're going to have this situation like last year. We took the leftovers in. We took the leftovers into the local self-governance, leftovers, and we sent out this nine billion, and we promised the special fund, and we promised they'd buy manuals for the 5th, 6th grade. And we don't know why they didn't buy it today, where these books and we're putting back 500 million dollars to make these manuals for the 5th, 6th classes. Therefore, it is vital that we be in control. And of course, it seems to me that it is always easier for me to go to the head of the military, the commander of the military and ask there, to ask for the help of the military as a means of joining the minister. I mean, some deputies haven't been allowed to join the minister for months, not that they're part commanders. So I think it's a wrong approach so that we don't find a dialogue and we don't find this balance between the back and the front. So I'm very sorry, and I think we're going to have problems providing these delegated powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u352	Thank you. The only thing I can say about you, Mrs. Larissa? This is your performance instead of the amendments: 87, 88, 90, 96, 104, 105, yes, 104, 105, 113, 121. What's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u353	154 and 159.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u354	The only 154 and 159 are accounted for, if I'm not mistaken. I can't count them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u355	All of it. Then that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u356	Then that's it. Then without these two last ones. Thank you. Let's move on. Next Amendment 89, Kisilevski. Don't insist. Yes, Motherland has already spoken. 92nd, Bondar. Don't insist. 94th, Chulak. Don't insist. 97th, Lozinski. Don't insist. 98th, Mama. Don't insist. 99th, Friz. Don't insist. 100th, Mazurash. You've already reported it. 101st, Krulko. Don't insist. 102nd, Bondar. Don't insist. 103rd, Kisilevski. Don't insist. Next, 106th, Alexiyczuk. Don't insist. 107th, it's Fatherland. We're on our way. 108th, Alekseiv. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u357	Dear colleagues, this is again an amendment that applies to local budgets. This right suggests adding 64 percent of GDP to local self - government budgets on a permanent basis. This amount of PDF 64 percent was introduced at the proposal of the President of Ukraine, taking into account the budgets of local self-government for 2022-2023. The size of 64 percent was not just introduced in order to get it. So that the communities can keep the tariffs warm. And tariffs are against the fact that the government has never compensated for the difference in tariffs in 2022-2023. Please place this amendment on the table and vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u358	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 108 Alekseyev's amendment, she's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:49:45.]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Please, next amendment 109. Now, just a second. It's a slogan. Don't insist. 110th, Bezgin. Don't insist. 111th, Mikisha. Please, Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u359	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. It's going to take some time. What's in this direction? We all know that local self-government has helped the military forces of Ukraine to other military units since 24.02.2022. Regrettably, some legislation now does not allow this to happen. And they can come to the respective communities tomorrow with tests and then order them directly in terms of both law enforcement and other tests. That is why this amendment is intended to introduce financial and material assistance to the security and defence sector into legislation on an official basis. And it wasn't the national MPs, it was the local self-government that took the initiative. I want to thank the head of the Opišnjan community of Mikoli Razniku and Andry Mazana, who organized local self-government and gave the appropriate amendments that we have processed on the committee, and it is now in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u360	Thank you. Would you like to give me a quick answer? Yes, if there's a need, please. Well, I think there's a need. You're not going to insist on this amendment, are you? You will, yes? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u361	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Look, colleagues, this amendment is not supported by the committee by name in the proposed edition. This rule would still be appropriate to be placed in the Final and Transitional Positions, because it is of a temporary nature. That's why it's rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u362	Thank you. 111 Mikishi's amendment. She's been rejected by the committee. You've heard the side arguments. Please vote. [[14:52:00]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 112, Mama. Don't insist. 114th, Alexiyczuk. Don't insist. 115th, Alexiyczuk. Colleagues don't insist. 116th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 117th, Francis Igor. Don't insist. 118th, Mama. Don't insist. 119th, Francis Igor. Don't insist. 120th, Alexiyczuk. Don't insist. 121, we've got it. 122nd, Alexiyczuk and colleagues. Don't insist. 123rd, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 124th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 125th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u363	I'm asking you to replace my ten amendments for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u364	No, no, that's not gonna happen. Please, let's do some repairs. We're very pleased to hear from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u365	Come on, 125 revisions. Dear colleagues, to let you know that everything the authorities are doing right now is separating the country, because right after this draft law was introduced, we came up with proposals to find compromise. And I'm supporting a colleague who just said that it's very obvious that the search for compromise with the territorial communities should take place. It didn't happen. And now you're going to make 910 amendments tonight, and you're going to make a difference there, and no one knows anything about it. Even we've just read that you're moving towards compromise, but you're doing it because of blood and hatred for all the power that this project is doing, it's done by this bill. Why do you do that if you were inclined to do it from the beginning?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u366	Thank you. 125 revisions. Please, you can respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u367	125 revisions. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Not supported by the committee, colleagues. Norms of the item allow the cost to be channelled to the local budget’s primary expenditure under military conditions without ineffective spending. That's why it's rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u368	Thank you. 125 of Yuzana’s amendment, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:54:35]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Please, 126th. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u369	Thank you. It's a very important amendment, because we're talking about that you can't take money from the community, that's all, you can't take money from people. And I want to talk to those who watch the broadcast. Where are our "ministers of the people," where are they all? There was this number of "ministers of the people" and again, there were 30, 40 people left. How long before it's over? We don't have to work anymore. And in local communities, people work, and they can't take money from local communities. And it's a completely blasphemous choice that you put, like, and let's take it into the community to give the army. No, you take the President's Office, you take him to a teletarafon, you take 95 blocks in your endless series, you take him to Alexander Seminovich's forever scholarship and you give him an army, and you don't take anything from local government or community. Because you can't do that, it's the destruction of decentralization, and it's an absolute disgrace. That is why I insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u370	126 The potter’s amendment was rejected. I ask you to vote. [[2:56:09]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Please, next 127th, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u371	Ruslan Alexiyovich, there's till 134th. 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 134 in me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u372	How many minutes do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u373	Give me four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u374	Four minutes, please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u375	Ruslan Alexiyovich, about half an hour ago, you had this, in my opinion, correct hard speech that everyone should sit down, start working.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u376	Please take your seats, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u377	There's no shame in the walls of the Supreme Council. But now there is shame in the walls of the Supreme Council, and unfortunately there are very few national MPs left. I wanted to thank everyone for coming to the Supreme Council Hall. Who thinks that the laws relating to the financing of local self-government and the laws relating to the financing of the army are important, but not a lot of them. And yesterday, where again all these Facebook heroes, something I don't see again in the walls of the Supreme Council, some of the factions came out. I'd like to ask, it was late yesterday, everyone said it was 11 o'clock late, so they all split up. Now we have three minutes with you, people are all working at 14:57, the whole country is working, I'm not talking about an army that's fighting 24 to 7, and where are the national MPs, Ruslan Alexiyovich? You are the Head of the Supreme Council, you have an obligation to ensure the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We cannot even vote for the amendments because the Constitutional Court has forbidden it in its time. And you know that, unfortunately, you are violating the Constitution of Ukraine. I don't know why you're doing this. And unfortunately, we're seeing a little bit of a double approach. I understand that you may not be able to influence everything, but when you're asking the Supreme Council to start working, it means that the whole Supreme Council, all of it, and all of it to the enemies of the law, it doesn't work that way either. Let's either finish our work for today, wait for everyone to come, and we'll discuss the revisions. And a lot of conceptuals, we've been through a lot while you're gone, Alexander Sergiyovich put them to a vote. That's 64 percent left in the PFC communities, that's an increase in the marginal debt, and a lot of other things that I and my colleagues in Reasonable Policy are going to put. I think it's the same as the other factions. So let's either close today's session, take a break, wait for everyone to eat until they can all come back and start working. Actually, I'd like to see some work schedule, because yesterday you couldn't answer who made the decision about how we work by 11:00 p.m. I don't mind, but I wanted everything to be under protocol, because then there could be a protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u378	Let's move on, dear fellows. 135 amendment to Krulka. Don't insist. 136th, Iron. Don't insist. 137th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 138th, Black Sea. Don't insist. 139th, Leonov. I asked you. Okay. Let's hand it over to our colleague because he's awake. Please, Blackmaorov, 138 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u379	353. One minute, please. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to put these motions to a vote, because they define three areas, namely Mikolaiyevsky, Kharkivsky and Zaporezik, and there's no political colour at all. The only political color that is is that these are the areas of the hero, and the President of Ukraine has also noted that. In my opinion, the military and law enforcement PDF must be left in these communities, because this is primarily their defence. Second, the people who lived in the basements when they were being shot, these are the areas where they've suffered most of the rocket strikes, and these people really need a normal life in the conditions in which they now exist, that's forposts. This is essentially an area on the border with temporarily occupied territories. So, your honors, I'm asking you to support these changes and take out Mikolayivsk, Kharkivsk and Zaporezki region and leave the PDF in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u380	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, 138 amendments, and 353. Do I get it right? I'll bet you a turn. 138 Amendment of the authorship of Montenegro, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:01:35]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Next 353. Dear colleagues. Show the factions, please. 353. It's also rejected by the authorship of Blackmaurov. Please vote. [[15:02:05]] For-44 The decision is not taken. They jumped because the author had two revisions, and he asked him to do it all. He asked for one minute instead of two amendments. Dmitri Alexanderovich, you've had some other comments, I'm sorry, yes, because we're just getting into the Black Sea.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u381	I wanted out of the procedure. I was just asking that question to you, you didn't answer. Do you know of a decision by the Constitutional Court that does not allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote unless there are 226 national deputies in the Chamber? And in aid, do you now ensure that this amount is and that we do not turn the meetings of the Supreme Council into a farce? Because there's, well, a very small number of national MPs who stay in the hall and vote. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u382	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I'll answer you right away. I have a very good hold on the Constitution of Ukraine, the Rules. These are two things that regulate the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the Constitution, so I use them to the full extent of the powers I have. With regard to my duty, I now turn to the National Deputies, who may not yet be in the Hall, to take up their jobs and to take up work in the Supreme Council. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next 139, Leonov. Don't insist. Next up, 151st Mikisha. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u383	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have 151, 152 and 165, two minutes, please. And then 165th is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u384	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u385	No, in three or two. In three or two. Not two.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u386	Thank you. Colleagues, in fact, 10037 is a very bad bill for local self-government. It's not enough that he's actually taking military PFCs, that he's not providing a normal alternative, because we understand that the 33 billion that will go through grants is a completely manual regime that also does not go for the benefit of the community. The other one. Sixty-four percent of the PFCs that are currently in Transitional Positions are not in the body. It's also a risk. Although the European Union has already marked its commitment. But the obligation they have made is seen as in the body of the law, the Codex of Budget, even though it is not there. And the second. Edit 165 just says that the remainder will be taken away, and the remainder of the general funds and the special fund of local self-government will be taken away. Or you can use it exclusively for some things. Look, we're taking military PFCs completely into the community, there's no money left. And what they can accumulate and use for their needs and for their needs, and they do it, they'll save on whatever they can, in order to effectively switch from other programs to what they really need, and they're staying for the next year in surpluses to redistribute, we're now saying that you don't have enough money from the military VAT, so now you and your leftovers from other programs are not going to be able to use, except what we're going to tell you. This is ridiculous! We're back into financial decentralization, which is why decentralization generally suffers. We'll be back in 2015! Do you understand that? So support 165 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u387	Thank you. 151, 152 and 165. Right? I'll bet 165. Yeah, I'm gonna mark it now. Dear colleagues, 165 revisions of Mikishi’s authorship and colleagues She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:06:15.]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Next. 153rd. Vasilchenko. Don't insist. 154th. Alysseus and colleagues. Don't insist. 155th. Ah, it's Fatherland. He doesn't insist anymore. 156th. Kisilevski. Don't insist. 157th. Alysseus and colleagues. Oh, they're accounted for. I'm sorry. All accounted for. 164th. It's a Southern. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u388	Dear colleagues, you have just heard that decentralization means absolutely nothing to this authority, because if you wanted to and saw that the authorities of local self-government are making wrong decisions and are not spending enough money on military PFCs, you had to seek compromise with them and regulate expenses precisely in the direction you could spend in order to achieve a common goal. And this paragraph 22.8 means that instead of working with the local authorities 19 months ago and finding the direction of spending, they say, "We're going to take everything away from you, and what you're going to have, we're going to only allow you this exclusive expense that we've already determined for you." Where did you see in the decentralization that you're taking care of all their issues as a community? It's a totally worthless norm. And even if there are some.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u389	164 revisions of the Jujana Committee have been rejected. Please vote. [[15:08:09]] For-19 The decision is not taken. 166th, Tistik. Don't insist. Ah, Mazurashu, 167th, you've already made your point. 168th, Demchenko. Don't insist. 169th, Nekludov. Please, Nekludov, 169th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u390	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. This amendment, it's purely technical. I don't even know what she was rejected for. It specifies certain points there, it refers to the fact that the remainders that remain at the end of the year at the special local budgets or local budgets are directed at the salaries of budget staff, utilities and so forth. There's actually a point to make it clear during the wartime period that it was imposed by Presidential Decree No.64/2022 of 24.02.2022. Every word matters. I don't think it's a big deal, it doesn't affect the budget. I'd like to hear a reporter say why she's being rejected. It's purely technical, and it refines it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u391	If possible, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u392	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Committee position. The amendment was rejected, a respected colleague, because there is already a bill that has been passed by the committee by a majority vote. Well, I don't know, even if it's technical, it's special. The bill itself has no effect. So it's rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u393	Thank you. 169 Nekludov's amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:10:09]] For-34 The decision is not made, unfortunately. 170th, Vasilchenko and colleagues. Don't insist. 171, Savichuk. Don't insist. 172th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 173rd, Hero. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u394	Thank you, Your Honor. So what is this discussion about right now in the Supreme Council of Ukraine? As you know, the regions today, especially my native Cherkaščina, receive hundreds of thousands of internally displaced persons. And it's obvious that the PDF of those military units that are behind the site of the permanent deployment are going to help, for these needs, to survive in general today's regions, especially when it comes to affected regions, such as Kharkishina, Sumstina, Chernigishte. It's a shame that there are no Ukrainian national deputies in this room right now. They don't exist in these regions, they don't care. And we're trying to protect decentralization today, the military parts that are exactly supposed to receive drones, the technology that they pay for their taxes. Regrettably, this law is intended to pass these taxes on to a boiler where they will be spent without penalty. That's what we're up against. And we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u395	Please 173 amendments, Heratchenko and colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:11:49]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 174, Rubleov. Don't insist. 175th, Kitzak. Don't insist. 176th, Hotcharyenko, please. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u396	It's an amendment that's very important because it's returning money to local self-government. And I want to say that what we're looking at right now is a completely disgraceful bill that envisions the destruction of local self-government. And we see this pattern very, you know, brutal and cynical when we were looking at it for hours yesterday. There were no deputies here, there were no "servants," then this morning they gathered, quickly voted on the budget, because they had to, and they still split up. And let them look at it, nobody cares. No one is interested in hearing that local self - government is helping the army today, and there are figures for this in every community. And what if they say that they don't spend money on the bug, so who first started spending money on drums and TV shows? This was the case with central authorities, and only after that did some of the local self - government get up. Instead of stopping it, they decided to rob.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u397	176 repairs to the potter. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:13:26]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. 176 revisions rejected. 177 repairs to the potter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u398	We're looking at a law about taking, robbing local councils, taking PDFs from them. And the authority is absolutely blasphemous to say, well, look, it's for the military. He's covering up for the military. In fact, how to get the 30s back, so no, we don't have the Supreme Council Rules here, where there's no regulatory committee here. It's true how to execute an order from Bank to punish Pottery for what he said about Greensky's father, and it's already a regulatory committee: and let's turn around, come on, we want to remove Hotcharyenko. Geo Lerose's scheme has been taken care of, let's throw another national MP out, and better for everyone. We'll close their mouths so they won't say that the authorities can't find the power to take the money from where it's drinking, they won't find the power to take the money out of Alexander Seminovich's permanent scholarship to Zelensky's father, Vladimir Zelensky's father. Probably the poorest pensioner in Ukraine. But he has the power to expel an opposition MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u399	Alexia, I'm sorry. I'm listening to you, do you have any family trauma about your father or something? I understand that not all parents of regionals have the opportunity to teach their children at the Russian university of government when it was run by Putin. I understand that. But there must be other parents. Do you understand? Parents who do something, including for the state of Ukraine. Thank you. Let's move on. Well, of course I'm going to set up this amendment. 177 repairs to the potter. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:15:25]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 178th. Ariev or Herasim, who will be? Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u400	Three amendments: 178, 179 and 180, please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u401	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u402	Mr. Head, first of all, I would like to ask you to abide by the Rules and not comment on the speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies. It's clearly written there. Second, essentially the amendments. I was one of those very active critics of both central and local authorities, local communities for waste. Including for road construction, which was absolutely unnecessary at this time, and for what costs were allocated both from the central budget and from the local budgets. But what's happening right now is that in order to drive the cockroaches out of the house, burn the house down. Because we're taking money from the communities that live for these taxes. For example, look, there are communities that form exclusively their budget from military towns. What's going to happen to them? Have we thought about that? We didn't think so. So in this case, the most reasonable thing to do is to do what's proposed from 178 and 180 amendments, and it's consistent with the Association of Cities, to define clearly the costs that it takes in military time, and to spend military PFCs on these very things and no more on any other things, because so many communities today provide drones, transports, by not buying the Ministry of Defense. And that's why if we do something different, we're going to cause problems, because when all the money goes to a general boiler, they disappear from there, and when it's real, they do what they have to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u403	Thank you. Next amendment. Oh, you just didn't say you insisted. Let's put it on, yeah? One or all? 178th, right? I'll put 178 amendments to the vote. This is Ariev’s amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:18:10]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Yeah, 181, Krulko. Don't insist. 182th, Batenko doesn't insist. 183rd, Mama. Don't insist. 184th, Grissom. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u404	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have a few amendments, 12 of them. I'm asking for five minutes for 12 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u405	I'll make it clear, these are the amendments you gave me: 184, 314, 356, 529, 546, 617, 755, 756, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u406	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u407	How much do you ask for them?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u408	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u409	Five minutes. Please, Mrs. Greeb.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u410	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, we have no more than 50 deputies in the hall today, although this is about attacking local self - government. We understand how much it is necessary today to channel funds to the military, to the army, but we also understand that because of local self-government and the people of Ukraine, we have restrained the invasion in the first months of Russian aggression. The Financial Times recently wrote that the uniqueness of the Ukrainian army is that it is provided from central headquarters and from communities. If there was no opportunity in the community to help the army, it is not clear what condition we would be in today. So I'm still suggesting that we don't completely transfer military PFCs to central headquarters right now, to that fund, because then you and I are just gonna lose that opportunity to help out on the spot. And what will we do if our communities are unable to provide the military who are on rotation when our communities are unable to provide quality assistance? With regard to heating and other services provided locally. Today, many deputies have also addressed the Prime Minister, and it is to the budget committee that the debt owed to direct heatcommuneers in places is 36 billion dollars. It's a prior debt. This year's debt is almost 17 billion dollars, just because it was decided not to raise tariffs on the spot. It's the right decision, but it's still necessary, if we've given such advice to the local authorities that they can't raise tariffs, then we have to make sure that they still provide help directly to their own Heatcommunerge, who are getting subpoenas today, they're already being subpoenaed by NAC Naftogaz for not paying their debts. And if they didn't get the money to pay off those debts, how would they survive at all? So I'm offering my rights, first of all, to leave the Navy in place, but allowing the local communities to direct 70 percent of the military PFC directly to the military. They can do this and I don't think it's worse than central authority. Secondly, allowing the city authorities to direct their remains to help their own heat utility today so that they can provide services to the citizens. We're going in with you in the hot season. Not on the committee yesterday, we didn't hold the committee because there was a meeting of the Supreme Council, we had a meeting with people who just cried, they said, "We don't know how we're going to go through the heating season." Because at the level, maybe the Energy Ministry, they understand when they work with Ukrenergo, with other big companies, but at the heat utility level there, forgive me for the non-parliamentary expression, but full ass, people don't know how they're going to go through this heating season. Let's at least make it possible to use the leftovers to help their heat utility. I believe that this law, if we adopt it in that way and especially on that date, which is in this bill, October 1st or whether it's October 10th, after the law is signed, but we're just going to kill local self-government. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u411	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. The next amendment is 185, Francis Igor. Don't insist. Next 186, Rippina. Don't insist. 187th, Tistik. Don't insist. 188th, Dmitri Alexanderovich, these are your revisions. He'll be wet, won't he? Please. Vasil Ivanovich, please. 188th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u412	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The offer is to give me 2 minutes and 188, 190, 194 and 195. And then put to the vote 194 and 195.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u413	Please, Vasil Ivanovich, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u414	Colleagues, we're actually looking at a very serious legislative initiative today, it's really a shame that there are a few dozen national deputies in the hall who are essentially interested in the substantive passage of rights, because then this legislation, and the following year, and not knowing how long our local communities will live, will be financed by our military, and it really matters. Therefore, I thank those who are steadfast and who remain in the workplace. The issue in the papers is that we are proposing to extend the authority of the local authorities to provide security and defence forces, because the state of affairs today is limited because they can finance that they don't. In our view, the local authorities have a fairly good interaction with those military formations that are in their territories and are capable of doing so, and they have the right to voluntarily channel resources to support the security and defence sectors. First offer. We also remember that during the Russian Federation’s armed aggression, many areas suffer from gunfire and that the issue of building shelters for the population, building fortifications, and functioning rehabilitation centers remain relevant. We must not forget that many internally displaced persons are in and out of various regions of Ukraine, and they also need funds to stay there. And a lot of other needs that have to do with the problems of the armed aggression of terrorist Russia. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u415	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. 194, 195, right? Dear colleagues, I put 194 amendments to the authorship of Dmitry Razumkov and colleagues, and Vasil Ivanovich Mokan to the vote. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:26:53]] For-23 The decision is not taken. And 195 amendments were also made by Vasil Ivanovich Mokan and his colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:27:15.]] For-19 The decision is not taken. 189, Babenko. What's wrong? Wait a second. We were in 188. And then Vasil Ivanovich, to whom you gave the word, said that he would speak instead of 188, 190, 194, 195. Is that right? And now I'm saying 189 because we jumped it. I'm asking you, is Grandma not insisting on working with her colleagues? Don't insist. 190, we just heard. 191st, Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u416	Ruslan Alexiyovich, give me 191 and 192. That's where we'll pick it up. Just give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u417	192nd is Mazurashu. I can't give you 192.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u418	193. I'm sorry. 191, 193. There's 210 in there, just so there's 2 minutes to go after it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u419	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u420	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in principle, have said this before, these are important remedies that allow local communities to allocate funds for defence. This is actually happening today. They're doing it. They do so by what is called the surrounding roads. And there's a corresponding bill from our colleague, a colleague from "Smart Politics" Mikashi Dmitry Sergiyovich, who suggested that we solve the problem, really solve the problem that you're talking about so that the resources of local authorities from the PDF go to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. But that's not your idea. You just have to take this money away instead of using it effectively. It proposes that 70 percent of such funds be allocated to the security and defence sectors, as is the case in normal communities today. Not to be sprayed, as some officials have done, on the purchase of electricity from occupied areas, on restoration. The lack of reconstruction in Irpen, Butchi and other cities that suffered from the enemy after the shootings, and on the papers they did everything there, not trying to steal on the construction of roads and many other things, as well as the potter, as well as the designers that we've talked about before, and the drums for shelters. Unfortunately, it's true, and you know it, Yuri Mikhailovich, including. And in fact, the goal is not to give money to the army, but the goal is simply to send it where it's needed. So I'd like to hear your position on this amendment, why you didn't support it, why the committee didn't support it, and why, this is 93 revisions, this is 93 revisions, why you didn't support it and why you didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u421	Please take 193 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u422	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, your rights are not supported because, according to the Committee, the issue of supporting the security and defence sector from local budgets is already regulated in the Budget Code. Local councils may decide to recalculate funds from local budgets to the state budget with further distribution of such funds by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u423	Thank you. We're moving on, aren't we? Please, let's move on. Next amendment to 196. Vasil Ivanovich Mokan, will you? 250. Then let's skip for now. 197th, Laba. Don't insist. 198, Vasilchenko and colleagues. Don't insist. 199th, Aleksiyczuk and colleagues. Don't insist. 200th, this is Fatherland, they've already spoken on this issue. 201st, Alexiyczuk and colleagues. Don't insist. 202, Alexiyczuk and colleagues. Don't insist. 203, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 204, Bondar. Don't insist. 205, Bacon. Don't insist. 206, Bacon. Don't insist. 207th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 208th, Aleksiev. Please, Sergey Alexiyovich. Don't insist, all right? Don't insist. 209th. There's also Petrunjak, Zagorajko, Razumkov. Dmitri Alexanderovich, will you be or will you be someone? Do you insist? 209th. Will you do it or not? 209, please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u424	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. 209, 211, 212. Please give me two minutes to go after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u425	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u426	Thank you. These are important corrections, these are the rights offered by our team and supported by the Association of Cities, which really corresponds to the position of "Smart Politics," allowing local communities to allocate funds for defense. In particular, allow the financing of operations and the operation of territorial defence, and mobilization training, support for security and defence forces, design, construction, repair of civilian protection facilities, shelters, shelters, and so on, dual-purpose facilities and facilities that are planned for use, shelters and populations. Unfortunately, this was not done by the state central authority in the last heating season and during the time that the so-called "incorruptible points" were transferred to the local authorities, and this was what the central authorities tried to do. Well, it didn't work out, because the points of independence were pretty much the same. For example, if we're talking about the most quality "point of integrity," where I had to be, it's Guliapole's narrow direction, it's a really cool "point of integrity." I would like to thank all those who organized it, who worked there, who helped the locals to endure the constant shootings that this community center lives on. So let us help the local authorities to make sure that not only you can talk about Guliapole in the walls of the Supreme Council, but it is also desirable that we perhaps go there, Ruslan Alexiyovich, colleagues, see how this is done and perhaps we should not take this money to the local authorities. So all those who want to be invited, I think it would be important for this population point, and it's useful for you and me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u427	Thank you. 213, Mokan. Well, you're missing it. What is it, everyone? 209th. Now, one second, I'll be right back. 209th. Please, Your Honor, 209 amendments to the authorship of Petrunjak, Zagoryko and Razumkov. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:34:48]] For-27 Wait a second. The decision is not taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. Let's move on. 213, Mokan. Don't insist. Oh, you too. I'm sorry, because you're the first, you're the fifth. Okay. Dmitri Alexanderovich, come on 213, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u428	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have a 213-217 request, give Christmas two minutes instead of these rights, and we'll move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u429	Okay. Please, Christmas. 213, 214, 215, 216, 217.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u430	By 17, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u431	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we understand how senior MPs, who contact communities every day, how difficult it is for the state in times of war to fulfil those obligations that are defined by laws. And this is sometimes done in place of the state of local self-government, and it's the kind of money that comes from taxes. Therefore, the removal of funds from these communities' budgets has been repeated in this room, which could lead to the collapse of local self-government and the collapse of decentralization reform in general. Because PDF is the kind of service that is needed by the state that is supposed to be available to people. Both the military and the law enforcement officers, they protect us with their lives, but their families live in these communities, they are also people, and these people, on the front line, have to be sure that their families are protected and receive the necessary services and assistance. And the back of the military is providing local self-government. These are the families of the military, they're the breadwinners. The people who feed on the front are physically in need of school, work, help, are particularly injured in frontal communities, it's the help of those military personnel who live in these communities, the rehabilitation of veterans. Let's say we've already taken these resources into the community, they're gone. What, are the communities going to stop helping the military? Of course not. No matter how difficult it may be for them, they will help, for there are people from every community fighting there. But the great question is whether the State will do so by taking away their taxes, their resources, or whether this aid will be directed to the assignment. These are very big questions. That's why we're our "Smart Politics" team, and we stand up for leaving military PFCs in the community. And this law will simply destroy local self - government if we adopt it in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u432	Thank you. Let's move on. 218th, Petrunjak, Zagorujko, Razumkov. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u433	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Let's get the standard one, 218, 222. I'm afraid I don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u434	One second. Two minutes then, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u435	Yeah, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u436	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u437	Yes, thank you. I'm sorry, Yuri Mikhailovich, I didn't understand your position, you said you didn't need to increase loans there, credit restrictions for locals, debt restrictions for local councils. Well, first of all, 300 and 500 percent, because 500 is exclusively for Kiev, and for all the other 300, it doesn't go up to 500. But the second sentence, and the question is not clear to me. Please tell me that you and I have now passed over 100 percent of the GDP, they make up our external obligations, the nation's internal obligations. Right? And we actually live in debt. So you're in the state budget, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in the state budget, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're saying, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're Don't you think that's a double approach, they're wrong, they're not valid, they're not governmental? And I personally see in this just a political context that will beat local self-government, on the democratic principles that we followed in 2019. And that's totally not true because you are. You, because you were part of a team that moved to power, promised voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u438	Please respond to these adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u439	Thank you. Dear colleague, look, what I've been talking about is the marginal amount of local and guaranteed debt, the state of law for today, I've already said, limited to 200 percent of the average amount of debt coming to the local general budget fund. And in the opinion of both Minfin and the expert groups on which we worked, it's optimal, because increasing this marginal volume can lead to the inability of local budgets to account for their own debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u440	Thank you. Dmitry Alexanderovich, you've got your repairs again, maybe four times to tell you, right? Please, Dmitri Alexandrovich, or five or two?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u441	No, let's do nine times four, so we have four left over.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u442	Okay, nine by four.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u444	So one second, I'm going to count 223, 224, 225, 226, 227, 228, 229, 230, 231. Right? Four minutes, please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u445	Yuri Mikhailovich, you're manipulating, with all due respect to you, because you can't guarantee that the same situation won't happen with the state budget. Do You Guarantee? I like to ask questions to find out who's personally responsible for this. I've also been addressing both the head of the profile committee, and the stenogram is, and then every word will have to be answered to both the electorate and the army, and to the god, and sometimes to other structures that are close to that and can arrange another location for our colleagues with you. But we didn't give them 700 million dollars in the past, and I think they're going to watch it, too. I mean anti-corruption organs -- SAP, NABU. And to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, we've actually reduced the costs of, more faithfully, financial security. So I think that the desire to work more qualitatively will appear to them, and by someone else too. But if you go back to your position, do you guarantee that in the 2024 government budget all the loans we take, they will come and you will be able to provide 3 trillion 150 billion? That's the first question. And the second question. Tell me, please, you voted today for 10038, and I've already said that this is a pretty manipulative bill, because it's called a pretty good name -- about an army, there's a really big amount allocated to an army, but yesterday we were fighting with you, you, if I'm not mistaken, were also in the hall, you didn't leave the Supreme Council and you were working, you should give it right, as opposed to the other members of the budget committee and the monotony, which it was not interesting, but it was from Bill 10037 that you want to fill out part of the bill 10038. Would it not be so that today, for example, the bill would not be voted on or voted on at all? Because you want to destroy local self-government and not the fact that national MPs will. Well, theoretically. There will be more common sense, there will be more sensible approaches in Parliament, there will be more intelligent people in Parliament, there will be more and they will not vote for it. How are you going to cover the deficit you voted in the 23rd year budget changes in Bill 10038? Two questions. Who guarantees budget deficits in 2024? And who will guarantee it if you can't provide a financial resource for Bill 038? These are two questions that I'll then ask you to answer. And another important aspect. You've pointed out a direct actual text, and I'm, frankly, very uncomfortable to talk about it, and it's hard to hear that you didn't support 86 of ours, because there's some 910th that counts. If this is counted in 910, that doesn't mean you have to reject "Smart Politics." You have to support her then, too. We're not talking about politics. We're talking about the army. Or about politics? If you're talking about politics, say, "We're politically engaged, we're not the key, we're the key, we're going, and so we're all going to reject smart corrections." Then I'll just figure out what position on the committee is, and I'll get out of this. Thank you and I look forward to a comprehensive answer to these three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u446	Please, what is the position of the committee on these nine revisions? We're talking about revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u447	The position of the committee on these orders is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u448	Thank you. Well, if you want, give me the answers, but you're representing a committee here. But questions are asked. If you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u449	Okay, thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Mr. Dmitre, look, on the first question, I'm still here presenting a decision by a general committee that worked with Minfin and with expert groups, and as a national deputy, I still believe more in what we can and will do, and all the commitments we made as authorities will be fulfilled. So we can probably guarantee that everything will happen the way we predict, because so far there are favorable circumstances. On the second question: Will the budget, if possible in 2023, be formed, as I recall?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u450	Thank you, Your Honor. Dmitri Alexandrovich, following amendments 232, 233, 234 Do I get it right? Please give me a minute. Two, right? Let's do two.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u451	Thank you for answering one of the questions. Yuri Mikhailovich, I hope you can answer the second. I will remind him once again: has the financial security of the bill, which was voted today, 10038, come from Bill 10037? If so, why did we vote in such a sequence today? First we have to find the money and then we have to vote for the law. If not, I would like to understand what logic we are dealing with. And the second. So once again, I'm asking you a question -- it's about the political motivation of the disincentived rights. Here, unfortunately, you'll find it hard to say that this is your position as part of the committee because you voted for the rejection of these rights. I'd like to understand the logic of this deviation. If the same correction is counted, because the author of it, if I'm not mistaken about Arahami, is it? - and this is the leader of your faction, okay, I'll understand that, and why are you rejecting all other analogies? It would be wise to support them, and we would have had more good rights that were approved by the committee. But it didn't happen. So, if possible, answer these two questions. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u452	Your position on three amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u453	Mr. Dmitri, look, the committee was chosen to do one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, two, two, three, three, three. Well, that's the position of the committee. The majority voted, and the committee chose exactly the kind of editorial that would be included in the body of the law. That's the last question. And after the formation of 10038, well, frankly, I think it would be better to re-focus this issue on the Ministry of Finance, they'll come up a little bit later. Because right now I don't have any tables on my hands, so I'm asking you, as soon as a representative of Minfin shows up, we're addressing this question to him. Well, somewhere maybe a man's gone, he'll be right there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u454	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. 235th, Arahami. Don't insist. Please proceed with the procedure. Dmitri Alexanderovich, what do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u455	First. It was a very good suggestion from Mr. Cusbit, who suggested that he should still be a representative of Minfin. The Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Finance had to be given back properly by the end of the meeting and had to carry out their duties. And yet, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I would like to ask you a question. And you didn't answer if you knew about the Constitutional Court decision that wouldn't allow you to vote on the Supreme Council walls if there were no 226 people's deputies in the Chamber. If possible, give a direct answer, not about what you know about laws, or you don't know. Is there a decision or not, do you know about it or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u456	Dmitri Alexanderovich, look, Dmitri Alexanderovich, are you finished?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u458	I'm not in the constitutional law exam. I am telling you that as Head of the Supreme Council, I am obliged to direct and act. The Constitution of Ukraine, the Rules that I do. Thank you. Let's move on. 235th, Arahami. Declined. Don't you insist? Thank you. 236th, Tistik. Declined. Don't insist. 237, Vasilchenko. Declined. Don't insist. 238, Bacon. Declined. Don't insist. 239, Shulak. Don't insist. 240th, Eugene. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u459	Dear colleagues, to make sure you understand that two sources of funding for the state budget are being considered in these changes. And when Mrs. Podlas said yesterday that what really happened was her dream that the entire road fund would now be part of the state budget, so we've been talking about this dream for four years, that during the war it would take at least a percentage to put into special funds or into the state budget. But it's a dream like this, because it's going to be stolen again, it's going to be spent on asphalts and so on. And we've suggested that these funds should be launched through the budgetary lending of targeted defence and industrial development programs. We talked to Kamishin yesterday, he likes this idea, but the budget committee only listens to teams and doesn't even want to think about healthy things.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u460	Dear colleagues, 240 revisions of Yuzana and colleagues She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:51:04]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. 241th, Mazurashu. Don't insist. 242th, Goncharenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u461	Good afternoon, dear friends. You, Mr. Ruslane, mentioned the family injury. I wonder who's having a family injury. Because it seems to be so serious in these and injuries, because it's a lack of morals and conscience, and it's really genealogical. Because how can you take money directly from the budget directly to your family? You can talk about me here, anything, anything. I've never had a penny of government aid, support, anything else. And to think about giving the President's father a permanent scholarship for the budget account, the president who doesn't have a problem with the villa in Forte de Marm, which is a millionaire, and he talks about it publicly -- well, frankly, something beyond understanding and morals and gender trauma. And my point is, you don't have to rob local self-government by covering up for help.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u462	242 repairs to the potter. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:52:36]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. Next 243, Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u463	Jonah.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u464	Jonah, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u465	Thank you, Mr. Head. My amendment to the continuation of the local community's budget lending. And, you know, it's very sad that the strengthening of the state's military capabilities is happening through the punishment of local communities. And you're punishing not really local communities, not community leaders, not mayors, but the people of these communities. Especially in the context of the fact that they will not be able to improve through targeted programs of development of the defence and industrial complex. And that's why I'm, you know, very worried, too, because it's really anti-corruption policy that we need to deal with, not the punishment of one or the other. We remember the famous Law 5655, which is still unknown to him, because the President of the country really wants those standards to work, even though he can't sign it because of the social resonance. And, you know, it's also very cynical when we have the Ukratnafts leader and the Ukranafts get 3 million 200.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u466	243 Amendments, Heroshenko, Jonah, and colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:54:20]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 244. Ariev, do I understand? Please, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u467	I'm asking 244, 245, 308, 319 and 320 to give me four minutes instead of five.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u468	I can do three if you want. Okay. Let's go one way, let's go one at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u469	Let's do 240.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u470	Please, 244th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u471	Mr. Head, look, you offered the same conditions to others, you gave them, and you wouldn't let me. I wonder why.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u472	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u473	I offer four minutes instead of five straights. Five rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u474	Okay, four minutes, no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u475	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u476	244. Let's say again, 244.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u477	244, 245, 308, 319, 320.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u478	308, 319, and 320. Okay. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u479	Thank you for giving us equal opportunities, and I hope that in the Supreme Council we will eventually arrive at the 100% European working style of the higher legislative body through. through the thorns to the stars – per aspera ad astra. But through these thorns, we're going to have to go through the budgets of local communities. I wanted to point out that so many local councils have approved the appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to rob them for 94 billion dollars because many local communities are actually, of course, doing waste. But as from a classic pretzel that grew up, it grew up, and it was chosen. But there are a lot of local communities that are absolutely real enough to provide the Ukrainian Armed Forces with everything they need. I keep track of the contracts in the ProZorro system. And this deal, literally because of a couple of contracts -- whether drones, or the acquisition of cars, or anti-drone guns -- we're cutting off military parts of these communities right now. And right now, there are two representatives from Hmelničina in the Presidium, one from the Head of the Supreme Council and the head of the local People's Party, and I wanted to inform you that the Hmelnick District Council supported the appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that there should be no 10037 of this looting of local communities and local budgets. I'm absolutely sure you can find a perfectly normal solution. And this solution will be found when local communities find themselves without light, without water, without the ability to repair, without the ability to buy medicines for local hospitals, and with the ability to maintain local hospitals when people experience everything on their own. I understand we have a lot of needs for the front right now, but let's take the entire road fund, as you did on February 24, last year -- we're taking the whole road fund to the military industrial complex. This is really enough to start all the plans that are in Minsk today and in the State Department and in the Ministry. Special industry. There's money for all of this if you take it from the road fund. If we take the money from local communities, it'll be literally everything. And I understand that now, perhaps for the opposition, such a bill is politically very good, because the dissatisfaction of the population will result from the adoption of the bill in the form proposed. But there are political issues, and there is a question of the survival of the state in times of war. And I have stressed that we need to reform today, first and foremost, and that we are going to meet in the hall, and now I am underlining that this bill cannot be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u480	Thank you. Please move on, 246th, Batenko. Don't insist. 247, Fris. Don't insist. 248, Mikisha. Please. Dmitri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u481	Thank you. The Ukrainian Road Fund is a special fund for the state budget with a target for roads. And everyone is very happy to be taken from the special fund and transferred to the general fund, to a general boiler where it can be used as anything. But take your time to rejoice, for I will remind you that 35 percent of the road fund is on the road to local importance, that is, to communities. And if it's full now. Right now in 10037, this bill says that all the costs from the road fund will go to the general boiler and then the communities won't see this 35 percent, 35 percent going to go to the local road. Given that we're taking away military PFCs, would you excuse me if the communities would support road infrastructure? It's not just roads, it's bridges and pedestrians and lighting is all road infrastructure and safety. If we take it now, they don't have any money. That's why I'm asking you to leave him on the task force.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u482	248. An amendment by Mikishi and colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[16:00:57]] For-23 The decision is not taken. Please, come on, Dmitri Alexanderovich, there's an amendment going on. Please, from 249. Smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u483	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 249, 252, 251, 3rd and 5th, give me 2 minutes, here's the conceptual order, then put to the vote. It's just that there's gonna be two other Mocan brothers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u484	Let me get this straight. 249, 251, 252, 253, 255. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u485	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u486	And two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u487	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill directs the cost of the road fund to defense for targeted expenditure, not to the general budget as proposed by the government. Therefore, it is proposed that 50 percent be sent to develop, purchase, modernize and repair military equipment, equipment, and equipment, and 50 percent to pay the salaries of military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations formed in accordance with the law. I won't talk much. We suggested that the road fund should be cleared and not budgeted, just as the budget committee and Minfin suggested, but that it should be sent to the security and defence sectors. So I very much hope that you will support this and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u488	Thank you. Dmitry Alexanderovich, I'm sorry, and what adjustments did you say would it be later? Turn the Smart One on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u489	252, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u490	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 252 amendments by Razumkov, have been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:02:59]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, 250, did you say who would be? Vasil Ivanovich, right? Vasil Ivanovich Mokan. Please, 250 and tell me more.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u491	And 54th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u492	And 54th. Please, Vasil Ivanovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u493	It's about a road fund and a waterway fund that's proposed to go to the general fund. The logic of our team offers another suggestion. In order for them not to dissolve into a common fund, their purpose was incomprehensible. We suggest that they be directed to a special fund with the distribution of 50 percent to purchase, modernize, repair weapons and military equipment, 50 percent to pay the rewards, provide the military with money for the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military forces. It seems to me that this will enable me to control their purpose. And I'd like to hear the position of the committee on this side, which is rejected. And I'll put her to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u494	It's 250, right? Please, if you don't mind, stand for the 250th committee and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u495	Look, colleagues, the bill is rejected, because there is a position of committee that predicts that these funds will be sent to the general fund of the state budget and used in directions that we and you and the Cabinet of Ministers will then implement. And your claim could lead to a balance of 95.2 billion. Minfin vs. We have another plan with regard to this bill, the use of these funds. That's why it's rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u496	Thank you. 250 amendments to the authorship of the national deputy Mokan Vasil Ivanovich and colleagues. The committee's dismissed. You've heard the side arguments. Please vote. [[16:05:09]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Out of procedure, please. Wait a second. Unscrupulous procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u497	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you this question. I'm analyzing what our colleague Alexi Honcharenko is doing. He repeatedly does what he does and realizes that he attracts the enemy’s attention. He was repeatedly warned not to do so. But he continues to do so. I mean, I have reasonable suspicion that he's doing this deliberately to put us in danger. He realizes that he's on Russian television, we've seen him repeatedly. And I think we need to warn him if he does, but we can, of course, cause a connection that rockets can follow here after he's gone. I mean, he's committing a crime, in my opinion. And I think we need to warn him again, and if we don't, we're going to apply to the Ukrainian Security Service to get them started.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u498	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now, if I may, I will respond because I have been asked to warn me. Every time at the beginning and at the end of the session, I warn all the national MPs, all those who bear the status of the national MP, including the person who is called you. So once again, I ask all MPs to abide by Parliament's decision to report on Parliament's activities within the hour of completion. But you named Alexia Hotcharenko, and I'm giving him the right to a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u499	Thank you. Well, now, my friends, we must have figured out why all the people's servants ran away. Because they're afraid the rocket will come, I understand. So we have about 40 people left. I couldn't figure out why, where to put them, what they don't have, why they don't go to work. I mean, people text me, Friday, maybe they're getting ready for the Boho club or the restaurant or something. No, my friends, it turns out that's the question. I want to remind you that you and I met in this room in February and March last year, when Russian artillery stood 20 kilometers from Kiev, and no air alarm signal would save us if we hit it, but we were here. Not all of them, indeed, were in the Cauldron of Zacarpathia, some of them were in the Bukovela environment, and some of them were just abroad. But those who were were, and we know them by their names. And now you're saying, is that a problem that people will know? How do people in Ukraine even live? Well, there'll be an air alarm signal, let's go down to the vault, please. That is how all people in Ukraine can live.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u500	Let's move on. 254, Petrunjak, Zagorujko, Razumkov. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u501	There's 254, Mokan, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u502	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u503	Mocan. Mokan Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u504	Mokan's already on 254. It's 256 now, Dmitri Alexanderovich. It's yours, too, let's go, maybe five and two minutes, yeah. Can we have ten and four minutes, as you say. Ten and four minutes? All right, then I'll count it. 250. Guys, I can't hear Razumkov, I'm sorry. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u505	Ruslan Alexiyovich, there's 258, 261, 264, 67, 70, 73, these are our rights associated with Roman Vyacheslavovich Babi. Give it to him, and on 256, 257 I won't insist, and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u506	Okay. 256, 257, you don't insist. I'll give it to you from 258. One more time, I'll delete it. 258. Dmitri Alexanderovich. Turn on the Dmitry Alexanderovich microphone. 258.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u507	261, 264, 267, 270, 273.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u508	273rd. Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Please, National Deputy Babi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u509	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I'm going to ask for three minutes instead of these six rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u510	Please, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u511	Colleagues, the idea of the bill is to forward from the local budgets to the state budget taxes on the income of individuals from the salaries of the military, our defenders. We're told that this is necessary for the development of a defence and industrial complex, to protect the country, of course and undoubtedly, that's the right goal. But let's see what tools this goal is reaching and if these tools don't come to us anymore. The position that is proposed to vote after the committee's review of rights is actually an attack on decentralization and the actual destruction of local self-government, to a lesser extent in individual regions. It's an attempt to put local self-government, its organs on its knees, and put them in a position to ask for money in front of the central government. This, colleagues, is what we started with a few years ago before one of the successful reforms in our country is decentralization. The bill deals with tens of billions of dollars in coming, almost 26 billion in this year, and it is interesting that PDF is being removed from local budgets by a backlog of October 1st this year and almost 94 billion in the next. Can we really be sure that this money will go to the right things and be used for the purpose? I have a lot of doubts about this with my colleagues in Reasonable Policy. Because we see the number and scale of corruption scandals that have been happening in the government lately with overpriced purchases. It's about eggs and apples and so on. As soon as the government plans were announced, it was taken away from the local budgets. My colleagues in "Smart Policy" and I have begun to receive numerous appeals from representatives of local self-government. And they survive mostly because of these costs, and I'll pay attention, they don't work, they don't survive. Especially when it comes to frontal communities. So people live there, and they count on the local authorities, the authorities that are next to them, not the authorities that are somewhere in Kiev, to provide them with at least a minimal contribution to everyday life. Our position is that colleagues have stressed them, and I'll say again that we keep the PDF count on local budgets at the same level as it is now. Legislatively, it is possible for local budgets to finance the army and to refinance the Road Fund and the Waterway Fund for the purpose of modernizing weapons and paying for the rewards of military formations, not the general fund, as proposed by the government. Colleagues, I suggest you listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u512	Thank you. 259, Dmitri Alexanderovich, that's yours too, isn't it? There, I understand, 259, 260, 262, 263 and 265, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u513	Ruslan Alexiyovich, please. 259, 60-a, 62-a, 63-a, 65-a, up to 281 please give me 10. Seven minutes and we'll move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u514	By 281, all yours?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u516	Yes, please, how many minutes? Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u517	Seven minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u518	Seven minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u519	Ruslan Alexiyovich. Dear colleagues, perhaps. We can do it first, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u520	Please, first.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u521	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to go over some changes now and then ask them to put them to a vote in this speech because they are important. This is a law that establishes at the level of the Budget Code, which is included in the revenue of the State Fund for Rural, Rural, Urban, and Territorial Communities. 64 percent. We've talked about this a lot. I also addressed Mr. Cusbit today and asked them to take this into account, and in principle they would not want to do so, even though it was a pressure mechanism for local authorities. We've proposed to our team, the "Smart Politics" team, that 70 percent of the military PDF should go to ensure our defence forces from local budgets. But you also don't support and block this process. I don't understand why this is happening, but the fact remains. And I've done the same thing with my colleagues, and this is an important right when the government's proposals for the total numbering of PFOs from military wages to government budgets are adopted, so they're blocking mechanisms. Unfortunately, you also didn't let it be controlled by the process that's going on, how these costs are going to be channelled, how they're going to be used. I understand that it's very convenient to break them down into molecules and stick them on Big Building, on other corruption or semi-corruption issues, or just lose them, depending on what non-professionals are going to do. Regrettably, there are such examples. You know, they're said to be stolen or buried. This is about some of our officials. Sadly, the fact remains. And there are important remedies that propose to provide a subsidy from the state budget to local budgets to pay off debt on medium-term loans and interest-free loans, which unfortunately are also not executed. And a lot of other things that you and I unfortunately couldn't talk about on the committee, because the committee, you said today that there was no politics, but unfortunately, the subcommittee passed in half an hour. In this bill, there are about a thousand rights, if I'm not mistaken. You're physically, even if I ask you now to read them, just read them, you can't do that. If I'm not mistaken, it is you, Yuri Mikhailovich, who is the head of the subcommittee. So unfortunately, this is propaganda and counterfeiting. I'm.. I'm ashamed to talk about it, because I really respect you and treat you like a national deputy. And once again, you work in the hall, just like Minfin, who is today, thank you, unlike other ministries, and ready to answer questions. But the fact remains that you haven't considered the law, we haven't prepared the law for consideration. You know, it's like a "troika" meeting in Stalin times when you're guilty, because we've made up our minds, not because you're so truly guilty of any crime or of one or the other. That's why you didn't look at the opposition, you didn't look at the logical correctness. I'm not saying that all the paperwork had to be taken into account. No, I think some of them should have had a discussion, but unfortunately, that didn't happen. And then the committee there also gave three minutes to present the papers. We gave our team a lot of rights, and we didn't do games on the committee when it was possible for all right-wing authors to come and perform one at a time. Really? We came, we were only, if I'm not mistaken, I was, Dmitri Sergiyovich and we were only speaking, so we didn't block the bill on the committee. Just like we didn't block the 10038 bill yesterday because we wanted to make it better. Regrettably, the position of the committee, unfortunately, the position after this and the Office of the President, I am confident that the President will sign that bill without removing the Beb from there without devoting himself to the Bebe without any other unprofiled expenses, such as the Cabinet Secretariat, the secretariat of other ministries, and so on, the U.D., the State Department. Because there's a lot of professional people in the U.S.U.U.U.S., but you didn't count those funds as U.S.O.D., you counted them as kind of fuel to drive delegations somehow, 200 million dollars, 230 million dollars. Well, it's just abuse of our military, they see it, they talk about it. I think I'll make that point in the next speech. But I'm ashamed of our work, because those who said it was blocking the work of the Supreme Council, today at 4:20, at 4:19 are not in the hall. You'll confirm that, won't you, Yuri Mikhailovich? You see there's no colleagues in the hall? How can we work now? And your colleagues from the profile committee, and those who were passionate about how to love the Motherland, told about the dead, and now where did they go? Why aren't they in the hall? Why don't they vote for it? Do they vote against it? You don't want to vote for help to the local authorities. Don't vote, press red. You don't want to vote for help from the army. Press red. But that'll be fair. Not only do we go to coffee shops to bury ourselves but we work in the Council. I think it would be as right as possible, as right as possible, and respect not only for us, but for us, half the misery, respect for the electorate, respect for our defenders, respect for our heroes, who are approaching our victory. I'm sure everyone in the room would agree. But I think there's a lot of people in the room. 30 national deputies, if there is. Yeah? Well now I think we're going to put it to a vote and see, for example, the results of this vote. I think it will surprise us, to say the least. So as a result, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm going to ask you to do 331 revisions, it's about 64 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u522	331. Did I hear that right? Now, because it's a little bit further. 331 revisions. Wait a second. 331 revisions. There is an amendment to the authorship of Razumkov and his colleagues, which was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:21:10]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Then we have 283. Arahami. Declined. 284, Laba. Declined. 285, Arahami and Laba. Don't they insist on their amendments? No, it's not. 286th, Laba. Don't you insist? No, it's not. 287th, Laba. Don't insist. 288, don't insist on Lab. 289, Laba. Don't insist. 290th, Laba. Don't insist. 291, Laba. Don't insist. 292th, Cabal. Don't insist. 293th, Barresin. Don't insist. Mazurashu, 294, has already spoken. Next. 295, Nekludov. Please, Nekludov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u523	Dear colleagues, Yuri Mikhailovich, I'd like to address you. This edit, it refers specifically to a text that has to be simple and clear. You see what I'm suggesting, it's technical in nature, but it's very important because the text I'm proposing is understandable and it's going to be very easy to interpret, and it's going to be easy to apply: it's going to cost and it's going to focus. Look, it's simple and clear who gets it and where they're going. You look at the text you're proposing: "which is paid according to the Tax Code in the relevant territory of Ukraine and according to the stated standards of this code belong to the arrivals of the general fund." You understand that I don't understand why I'm being rejected. I'm getting easier and people will understand. I realize that it won't be taken into account, but for the future, I'm asking you a lot of questions, and I've been making adjustments that are going to be for people, for those who apply this, it's going to be easier to understand and apply. And I very much ask you to consider and put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u524	Dear colleagues, Nekludov's 295th amendment is rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:23:23]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Next 296th, Cabal. Don't insist. 297th, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u525	It's an amendment that says, if, in fact, the authorities want what they claim to be the type of help to the army, that's the right thing to vote on -- and to close the subject. She says that all the money from the military's FFP -- what goes into the local budgets -- the local budgets, the local councils have to spend only on the military, on the security, on the shelter, on everything that's involved in the full-scale invasion. Well, please, let's vote on that. And everything, and there's no questions, everything's going to go to the army. Why are you taking the money away? Because you want to dust them yourself in Kiev? What's in here that's not enough to dust, we still need to get the money out of the local budgets? Well, that's just not fair. If, in fact, the task is to help the army, to remove something, to build on some kind of fund. Well, then we know, eggs of 17 bracelets, jackets, and a lot of other things. Then keep me posted, don't rob the local government.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u526	297 repairs to the potter. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[16:24:55]] For -14 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 298, Saucuk. Don't insist. 299th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 300th, Vasilchenko and colleagues. Don't insist. 301, Vasilchenko and colleagues. Don't insist. 302th, Kick-Ass. Don't insist. 303, Bezgin. Don't insist. 304, Herotschenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u527	Puppet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u528	Pauline, please, Rostislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u529	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. If I may, 304th and 745th, please. If I may, two minutes. And I'll put it to a vote of 304.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u530	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u531	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, look, we need to solve two very serious problems. The first is, of course, that the funds go to defense and support the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and the second is that the rights of local self-government are not violated. Because there's been a lot of talk in this room and it's very good that we have any later, though in the record, but a broadcast to make people understand what positions the national MPs stand for. So it's very important to understand that both of these problems can be solved together. The first is about supporting the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And what we're proposing is the amendments that I'm talking about right now: directing the funding from the military to the military, 70 percent of them to the needs of the brigades, but in order for the brigades themselves to formulate these needs. And that way we'll know for sure that the money will go to the military and to the needs of the military. And how, with whom they're going to buy it and stuff like that, only a full-scale phase of war lasts more than a year and a half, so the military will give advice on what they need and how they need it. And 30 percent of this, colleagues, has to focus on the need for protection. Sadly, though, we remember that the plant was made last year. Unfortunately, all experts say that this winter will be very dangerous, and terrorists will do their job further. That's why we're going to need shelter costs, adequate facilities, rapid energy repairs, and things like that, where we take money from local self-government -- it's to put our people at risk. And our position is that directing the funds to the military directly and also leaving the funds to the local communities would be a very healthy compromise. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u532	Thank you. It's 304th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u533	That's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u534	304th, but there. I don't remember, we're counting 745, too. But we only vote 304. I'm betting on the 304th amendment of Heratchenko, Ionova, Pavelka, Klimpus-Cincadze, Friz. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:28:22]] For-16 The decision is not taken. 305th, Rubble. Don't insist. 306th, Zmerenecki. Don't insist. 307, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u535	307th is an amendment that says we should leave it in the local budgets, but we have to make them spend money on defense, on defense. Well, that's the right approach. Is it necessary for these funds to go to defense? Yes. But should they be taken and destroyed by local self - government? No! No! On the contrary. I want to see when the military's asking for help, for cars, for drones, for other things, I want to know what they've got right now from our central authorities, from Kiev? That's all right! On the contrary, billions of dollars of local self - control has led to this. As far as the volunteers are concerned, I won't say at all. There on this, on the volunteers, on the "cravoloninterprome," on the "minion volunteers" thing, it's all in our country. Then stop robbing the local government! Are there any owls in general? All of your cities have received a petition from you, saying, "Don't rob us!".. And you just cynically want to take it and dust it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u536	307 fix the potterenko. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[16:29:58]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 309, Batenko. Don't insist. 310th, Batenko. Don't insist. 311th, Mama. Don't insist. 312, Eugene. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u537	You know, I don't know how long it took to talk. But since September 12th, and here I'm talking to the Ministry of Finance, you've immediately gotten a fitback from us, from local MPs, from all over Ukraine, that these approaches that you've proposed from the very beginning, they won't go away. And you didn't start working with factions, you didn't start talking to the local authorities, you didn't start looking for compromise. And when you offered a new distribution this morning or last night, which is now on Facebook and Mr. Arachami, you didn't talk to anyone, and that is a fraction, a small part of the compromise. And before that, you even pretended you didn't hear anything. I'm very proud that we've managed to reach you, and not just us, but 400, 400 more territorial communities that have made decisions and turned to you to stop this dump. But we still didn't work for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u538	Should we put it to a vote? 312 Amendments of the Yuzana and the Colleagues The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[16:31:45]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 313 repairs, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 314th, Grissom. We've already reported it. 315th, Yatzik. Don't insist. 316th, Igor Fries. Don't insist. 317th, Spinov. Don't insist. 318th, Spanov. Don't insist. 321th, Rapina. Don't insist. 322th, Rapina. Don't insist. 323rd, Rapina. Don't insist. 324th, Rapina. Don't insist. 325th, Mazurashu. I've already said it. 326, Pivovarov. Don't insist. 327 Bakumov. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u539	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleague of the reporter, my amendment number 327, she predicts that the police should be removed from the category of those to whom. whose VAT will be directed directly to the state budget from the local government. I'm just curious about the position of the committee, why did we take the police and actually compare them to the military? The police, however, are mostly residents of the territorial communities, they are constantly living there, they have families, their transfer is impossible from the region to the community, because they are in a specific position, and the corresponding movement is impossible. Or you can understand the logic of why the police -- because in that case, in principle, we can theoretically add to this any category whose VAT will be directed to the state budget, including education, including other categories.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u540	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u541	Thank you, Your Honor. See, the position of the committee is not supported by the fact that the reduction in the share of the special fund from the payment of military and police personnel by the U.S.F.F.F. in 2024 and the failure to direct it in 2023 will not allow the full funding of the measures of the state aid programs that are covered by this bill. For these reasons alone, there are some calculations, some plans for this money, for the development of these two programs, so, unfortunately, your amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u542	Alexander Sergiyovich, do you insist on putting up? Thank you. Next amendment 328, Laba. Don't insist. 329, Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u543	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Look what we're talking about. That we leave military PFCs in one hundred percent of the community, and we continue to share 50 percent of them with the financial and material support of the security and defence sectors, and 50 percent of them remain in the communities. But they have to calculate the future reverse for the next year, buy the GDP, and the remainder that remains can be used for their own purposes. But we do understand that most communities will use security and defence units again, which they do -- they support from 24.02.2022 -- and they do it all the time. And sometimes, not sometimes, but quite often, communities allocate more than 50 percent of their military PFCs to support the security and defence sector. We offer Tom to leave him to do his job so effectively and to continue to do his work.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u544	I'm betting on 329 amendments to Mikisha's authorship and my colleagues to the vote. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. Please vote, 329 amendments. [[16:35:49]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 330, Krulko. Don't insist. Next, 332rd, Babenko, Lušnjak and colleagues. Don't insist. 333rd, intellectuals and colleagues. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u545	Ruslan Alexiyovich, give me 10 minutes, and then I'll name the changes that we trade them for. Give me 10 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u546	Ten minutes. How many licenses are you going to exchange - 20?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u547	That's enough for you, even more.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u548	Yeah, okay. Thank you. Please, 10 minutes. Let's roll, let's start at the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u549	Ruslan Alexiyovich, while we're sitting here, if you can call it a meeting, I got a call from the guys, the guys we're going to the front, one of the troops that are fighting, who are really big heroes, and I'd like to say hi to them and thank them for everything they're doing. And they say, yes, yesterday was very funny, but I really want to cry, and I really want to come to Kiev, so that I can translate into parliamentary language, look the people's MP in the eye, or put those eyes on somewhere. And it's true that it's very embarrassing to hear from those of those who defend our nation, who's approaching it, when for someone it's a risk of life, and for someone it's xi-hi, ha-ha, as it was today in the hall, when half, the greater half of the majority were laughing. It's embarrassing, and it's gonna have to be done. Unfortunately, it seems to me that these are not just words, and this is a reality that will be faced by every parliamentarian who will be confronted by every official. I don't think there'll be anyone who can stay away. And, yes, I showed him how many people's deputies are in this room right now. And I'm not going to tell that rhetoric and the words he said to me right now. I don't think you're going to like it, and then you're not going to let it go. I'm really ashamed of how this is happening today. We're looking at important bills, we're looking at issues that fill the army's budget. I'm not taking the aspect of where you want to take it and steal it and where you translate it, but the fact remains the fact. And if they even had revenge yesterday, why aren't they in the hall, because 11th, very tired, can't work 12 hours, today's not over, there's hardly any national deputies in the hall. And I'm really ashamed of the boys and girls we go to on the front. But somehow it's embarrassing for those MPs who aren't here, and they're not ashamed, you know. Why we're trying to destroy local self-government, because it's politics, it's big politics. What did the Prime Minister say at the meeting when he refused to bring Mikisha's project into the agenda when she was agreeing with the President, why would we allow the local authorities to plough before the military? Do you even think about what it's about - the pierre or the provision of an army? About the interests of the State or the interests of the Prime Minister? You can't talk about it calmly, especially when the guys on the front find time to call you and say, "Well, it's a circus." They call the circus the only legislative body of the state. And looking at this room, unfortunately, I can't help but agree with them. I just can't help but agree with them. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I've spoken to you several times. Sadly, I did not hear the answer. That's why I'm being stenographered, they say, by protocol I'm going to tell you. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of October 17, 2002, which speaks of the following. I'll read it. "The Supreme Council of Ukraine has the power to enact laws and implement other constitutionally-defined powers (vote is also a constitutional mandate) under the conditions of presence at its plenary meeting at the time of the vote of at least the number of Ukrainian national deputies required under the Constitution of Ukraine for the adoption of the relevant decision." Part four of article 89, article 90, part four of article 94, part two, part five, article six, article 111, part one, article 155, part one, article 156. I mean, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, if you continue to hold meetings of the Supreme Council, you will violate both the laws that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working on: the Constitution of Ukraine and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, let us avoid profaning laws by adopting laws or pretending to accept them. I will not continue to insist on voting on the amendments. I'll stay in the hall until the end. Once again, I would like to thank colleagues here who may have a conscience. But I would like to point out that no voting is possible. That's what I'm talking about under the transcript. Either close the meetings, or continue to disrupt them. I'm not leaving the hall. I'm not going to make the vote again. Colleagues who are going to raise their charges, I advise you not to vote for them. But to express your position, please, is your right. But once again, the legislature cannot violate the law of Ukraine and the Constitution of Ukraine by adopting other laws. I'm not just talking about it. Do not commit a crime that will sooner or later have to be held accountable. Just like the Kharkiv Accords, when our colleagues here told us there would be nothing. Time is running out, power is changing, someone has to leave the seat, and someone is busy, and there is no desire for anyone in this room to be among them. And at the end of the speech, I wanted to thank once again all of our defenders and defenders who are fighting for our country, who are defending it, who are coming to victory, who have a conscience, who have a heroism, who have an understanding of why they're doing it. And I encourage many of my fellow Members of Parliament to set an example. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u550	In summary, Dmitri Alexanderovich, I understand that you will not insist on any amendment that contains your last name. Thank you. And your colleagues, any of your colleagues? Okay. 333rd. Don't insist on Dmitri Alexanderovich. Thank you. 334. Don't insist on Dmitri Alexanderovich. 335th, Nagorniak. Don't insist. 336th, Petrunjak, Razumkov, Zagorujko. Don't insist. 337th, Mokan. Don't insist. 338th, Mokan and colleagues. Don't insist. 339th, Mokan and colleagues. 339th, I'm sorry, Mikisha. Right? Please, Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u551	Ruslan Alexiyovich, look, there was a deal, 10 minutes of performance and 20 rights. Subtract, please, 20 lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u552	No, no, there was a deal I'd like. There was an agreement that it would be more than 20 amendments and an agreement that I would like.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u553	How much would you like?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u554	That's how much, I'm asking. Until I don't like it. Thank you. 339th. Don't insist. Let's move on. 340th, Pippa. Don't insist. 341st, Alexiyczuk. Don't insist. 342nd, Timoshenko. I'm on it. 343rd. Alysseus and colleagues. Don't insist. 344th. Alysseus and colleagues. Don't insist. 345th. Alysseus and colleagues. Don't insist. 346th, Aliksiyczuk and colleagues. Don't insist. 347th. Kisilevski. Don't insist. 349. Bondar. Don't insist. 350. The alien and the white-haired. Don't insist. 351st. Alekseus. Don't insist. 352. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u555	Alexei Hotcharenko. Guys, let's just find some logic. The fact that it's being robbed by local government, that it's to get the money wasted, it's obvious to everyone. But here's the question, they're taking out the PFCs, not just the military, they're taking out the PDFs and the police. Explain to me what the connection is. I mean, okay, the military -- clearly, all the money for the army, the military isn't physically in these cities, there are their families, but who cares, understands. Well, what's with the cops anyway? The police live in the city, carry out their duties, and use the city’s infrastructure. What are we taking away from the police PDF, which is what this is all about? If that's what you want to do, you should have taken everything. Why don't you take the teachers, the doctors? What, a little more embarrassing? Aren't the cops ashamed? Well, it's absurd, it's absurd, it doesn't make any sense. I suggest we clear the word "police," even if we don't take the PDF.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u556	352 revision of the authorship of Pottery, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:47:36]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Next 354th, Krulko. Don't insist. 356th. The mushroom has already appeared. 357th, Arahami. Don't insist. 358th, Arahami. Don't insist. 359th, Arahami. Don't insist. 360th, Black Sea. Don't insist. And colleagues. 361, Black Seas and colleagues. Don't insist. 362 Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich. Don't insist. 363, Tzabal. Don't insist. 364th, Mama. Don't insist. 365th Mamka Grigori Mikolaiovich. Don't insist. 366th, Brainy. Don't insist. 367th, one second, 366th, now I'm going to look, yes, Mikisha, you're here. Please, it's not even 20 amendments yet. You know what I mean. You just want to come out, 366, please, Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u557	Ruslan Alexiyovich, look, 366ths, 68ths, 69ths, 70s, 72ths, 74ths, 5ths, 2 minutes. And for the future, I'm going to have only five performances there, and that's all. And then I won't insist on others.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u558	Okay. 366, let's do it right now, 36.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u559	8th, 70th, 72nd, 74th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u560	70s, 72s, 74s.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u561	And two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u562	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u563	Colleagues, when a full - scale invasion began, in fact, most, the vast majority of people became a footstep, as did local councils. But this is the first week, tops. Then the local communities all -- leadership, deputies, execution, they joined in defending our state. And let's be honest and objective that maybe the citizens didn't stick to anything, but the troops got everything they needed in most communities. In most communities, they were helped to create and provide security. And just so you know, by August 2023, the total amount of money that was spent entirely on defense, on fortification buildings, on fuel-oil materials and so on and so forth, over 60 billion dollars. Listen, once again more than 60 billion dollars were spent, starting with a full - scale invasion, from 24.02.22 to August 2023. Over 60 billion dollars. And that's not to say how much money is spent on social security for the families of military personnel, on children, on free food, and when they say that local communities don't help and they don't give anything, it's nonsense, it's manipulation of facts. A couple of tens. Uncircumcised community leaders tear down the picture for thousands of 469 communities in Ukraine. That's not the way it's supposed to be. And that's why we've just registered the 9559-d bill, which will help communities to help financially and materially support the military, security and defence units. Sadly, though, it was in the order of the day, even though it was out of voice. But it's no longer out of the question, because the Prime Minister denies it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u564	Next. 367th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 369th, Cabal. Don't insist. 371th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 373, Tzabal. Don't insist. 375th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 376th, Mokan. Don't insist. 377 Bakumov. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, of course. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u565	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! This amendment applies again and again to the police and rescue workers. I want to tell you honestly that it's very difficult to explain to the police, it's very difficult to explain to the rescuers who, from the first hours of a large-scale war, started fighting the enemy in Kharkiv, standing in their seats, saving people, and now we're taking their contributions, their earnings, their contributions and their contribution to victory, both to the state and to the public budget, and I'm going to come to Kharkiv and I'm going to say, and we've taken your money and we haven't quite distributed it yet. I'm just saying, I'll support it. I'm going to support this project that's going to be proposed and read second from the committee and from the hall, but let's focus on these things, especially those territorial communities that are still in active combat zones to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u566	Don't insist. Yes, thank you. 378th, Cabal. Don't insist. 379th, Brainy. Don't insist. 380, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 381st, Mokan Vasil Ivanovich. Don't insist. 382th, Cabal. Don't insist. 383, Brainy. Please, 383rd, it'll be Mikisha. Right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u567	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 383, 385, 388, 390, 393, and write down 530. I'll also mention it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u568	Yeah, 390th and 393, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u569	And 530.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u570	530th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u571	And I have three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u572	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u573	Thank you. This is about how local self-government has really helped and helps the Armed Forces of Ukraine not only with all the units and military formations that have officially been registered in Ukraine, that is, the security and defence sectors in general. And Bill 9559-d, which had just been called upon to solve all these problems. But unfortunately, thanks to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who denies and refuses to put it in order of day, he is preventing communities from actually doing so on a full basis, on an official basis, because legislation currently does not allow communities to help fully. It can help financially by handing over a subsidy to the appropriate military unit, but local self - government cannot help with the purchase of drones or other material goods and hand over to the appropriate military unit, unfortunately. And that's why some communities are now being assisted after 24.02.2022, and then there's the audience service, and then there's the law enforcement, and even the D.B.I.D., and there's a little investigation going on. It's 9559-d and the standards from there that we've just registered in this bill 10037 to protect communities from this, from this persecution when they help and just create all the possibilities to quickly solve those issues that are in the military units, and that's much faster than a huge machine in the form of the Ministry of Defense can help. And they emphasize and support that. I thank local self-government. Thank you, Nicholas of Varsity, who is the head of the Opishnian community, who came out with this initiative, Andrew Mazana, who has gathered the communities, and we have spoken all of this, polished all of these norms and contributed exactly what is necessary. Sadly, though, it is not supported. We have introduced, transferred from 9559d to Bill 10037, these standards so that the communities can actually continue to financially and, above all, materially support the security and defence sectors, implement appropriate programmes and be able to do so on an official basis. When Mr. George denies it and says that it does not have to be done on a permanent basis, we do not have it on a permanent basis. We're proposing to do this for the duration of the state of war. Why everyone is against it and not supporting it is not clear. Local self - government also does not understand why. They are willing to continue to allocate billions of dollars in total to all communities and to support the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other units. But they are not allowed to do so. So please, let's support this right over here and 9559-d as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u574	Thank you, Your Honor. Next, 384th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 386. Bakumov. Alexander Sergiyovich, I have it written here that instead of 386, 391, 493, 498, 508, 511, 512 and 513 you ask how much? Three minutes. Two minutes. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u575	Dear colleagues! There's a whole series of amendments. I will not insist that we put them to the vote, but I would like to announce their content. I suggest that the appropriate PDF remain in the respective communities, cities to which the President of Ukraine has assigned the honorary title "Ukrainian City Hero". These are the territorial communities that were the first to accept the appropriate aggression of the full-scale Russian Federation, which stood up, which gave strong resistance to the enemy. And we're talking about the city of Kharkiv, the city of Mariupol, the city of Volnovah, Hostomel, Herson, Chernigus, Butchu, Irpine, Mikolai, Ohtik. These proposals, legislative initiatives, are designed to leave the appropriate PDF behind local communities so that they can manage these costs, but they are limited. Set up a framework to provide protection, security, reconstruction, tens, hundreds of schools, kindergartens, and social infrastructure. So I'd like to support that. However, I realize that there is no potential right now, and I wish everyone further fruitful work.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u576	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. That's what I'm talking about. We all have fruitful fine work and the speediest victory of our nation. 387th, Cabal. Don't insist. Next, 389th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 392th, Cabal. Don't insist. 394, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 395th, Mokan. Don't insist. 396th, Cabal. Don't insist. 397th, Brainy. Please, Mikisha, right? Do I get it right? Please, Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u577	397, 399, 400, 402 and 579. Please record.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u578	Now, one second, I'll find it. 579th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u579	And I'll have three minutes, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u580	Three?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u581	Three.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u582	Let's do three.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u583	Colleagues, look, most importantly, we're talking about where to take the money and how they should be distributed. We're talking except for the military PDF, where else can we get the money? And it's in Reasonable Policy that we understand how certain taxes work, some funds where they should be used, how they are used effectively, whether they have been used effectively during these months since the beginning of a full-scale invasion. We have proposals, and the proposals are that 50 percent of the road fund that currently exists should be taken from here. Also, from the net profit received by commercial banks, state banks from Nazbank deposit certificates. Net profit, which is about 100 billion dollars a year. Take all this money and reroute it. Redirect to what? 50 percent for arms purchases, weapons development, equipment, military technology, BPLA and so on; and another 50 percent for our military units in the security and defence sector. We think that's fair. And look what we've got going on. We have about 100 billion from those deposit certificates and 50 percent from the road fund, and about 90, as I recall. So we already have almost 150 billion extra funds to buy weapons and also to boys and girls an extra cash reward. Instead, we're taking military PFCs into the community. Yeah, maybe a little bit should look the other way and get the money out of there. And it's totally in the power of both parliament and power in general. And local self-government, not to take money from them, but to support them, because local self-government is the first support and overall support for both the whole state and the people in places, because they are the first to communicate. And we're taking the money away from them, leaving them with this necessary resource to help not only local civilians, but, above all, the security and defence sectors that they're doing now. So once again, of the desperts -- about 100 billion, 50 percent of the road fund -- that's more than 40 billion, 45 billion. And these costs -- about 150 billion -- we're sending 50 percent to military equipment and weapons, and 50 percent to an extra reward. This, I think, is going to be fair to both the military and the citizens and the state and, above all, the local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u584	Thank you. Please, 401, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 402th, Cabal. Don't insist. 403rd. Smart. Excuse me, 404. 403, Tzabal. Don't insist. 404, Brainy. Don't insist. 405, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 406th, Mokan. Don't insist. 407th, Cabal. Don't insist. 408th, Umumkov. Don't insist. 409, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 410th, Mokan. Don't insist. 411th, Cabal. Don't insist. 412th, Brainy. Don't insist. 413th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 414th, Mokan. Don't insist. 415th. From the procedure? Alexander Sergiyovich of the procedure. Please, Bakum Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u585	Dear Chairman, our plenary meeting has been going on for hours, since 10 o'clock in the morning, i.e. more than 7 hours. I ask you as chairman to announce a technical recess for 10 minutes so that all the colleagues who are responsible and who work in this room can come out and take a five - minute break and start work again. If that's possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u586	Yeah, I think that's absolutely right. Technical break, like yesterday, for 10 minutes. And we're going to continue with 415 revisions. Ten minutes. And in 10 minutes we start. Please contact all responsible colleagues to return to their places of employment and continue their duties in accordance with the status of the National MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u587	Dear colleagues, thank you, there's been a technical break. We continue our important work. We're looking at the amendments to the second reading, and we've stopped at 415 amendments to the Tsabbal. He doesn't insist. Thank you. 416th, Brainy. Don't insist. 417th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 418th, Mokan. Don't insist. 419th, Cabal. Don't insist. 420th, Brainy. Don't insist. 421st, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 422nd, Mokan. Don't insist. 423rd, Cabal. Don't insist. 424th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 425th, Cabal. Don't insist. 426th, Cabal. Don't insist. 427th, Cabal. Don't insist. 428th, Cabal. Don't insist. 429th, Cabal. Don't insist. 430th, Cabal. Don't insist. 431th, Cabal. Don't insist. 432th, Cabal. Don't insist. 433rd, Cabal. Don't insist. 434th, Cabal. Don't insist. 435th, Barresin. Don't insist. 436th, Cabal. Don't insist. 437th, Vasilchenko and colleagues. Don't insist. 438th, Goncharenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u588	438 offers to leave, okay, 70 percent of the PDF to the community, not to take away everything. It's at least a compromise. By the way, the venerable communities, the representatives who are listening to this right now, who is going to watch this, this whole fight is not for nothing. The plan of power was to make that decision today. As you can see by the number of "ministers of the people," and there are about 15-20 left, it could be in the Supreme Council, this plan will no longer be implemented. So we have to fight, always fight to the end, which is exactly what we do, and we try to make a point. Of course there are no deputies here, there are no deputies here for a long time. But someone will look at it, maybe at night people, maybe someone on YouTube, I don't know, and even though they'll make some conclusions about whether it's worth voting for the new faces that are now robbing communities, or whether it's worth keeping in Parliament people who just "killed" and went. Think about it, my friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u589	Next 439. Ah, the vote. 438th, Goncharenko. She's been rejected by the committee, this amendment. Please vote. 438 revisions. [[17:17:27]] For the four of us. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. Let's move on. 439, Kitzak. Declined. Don't insist. The 440s, Gerasimov. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u590	Ruslan Alexiyovich, five rights: 440, 441, 442, 443, 444, please, 4 minutes. And 480, six rights, five minutes. Maybe I won't even use them all.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u591	Look, you can, now I'm like, 440, 441, 442, 443, 444 and 480. How much do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u592	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u593	Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u594	Dear colleagues, we are actually considering a very serious law. Why? Because you know, the phrase "mild intentions paved the way to hell" is very appropriate. Because we all understand, today there is a war going on, there is a massive invasion, because the war in Ukraine has been going on for almost 10 years. And we need to understand that today all efforts by all branches of government must be directed solely to help the front, to help the security and defense forces. And actually this noble goal is to direct this money right over there, it's very right, and we support it. But under this name of the law there are a little bit of other things that, by the way, are very wrong, I'm kind of, gently speaking, the way I want to say I'm doing it. Is that really why you had to do it? There is a VAT, a tax on the income of natural persons, which is being paid today by military units located in one or more locations, the community of these communities. And we need to understand that today this tax on the income of individuals, it's for many communities that they've been saved from almost total decline. Why? Because getting money in Kiev is already. To put it this way, everyone remembers how it was in the days of Yanukovich, Poshenko gave money from Kiev to the communities, and now Zelensky wants to collect it back to Kiev. But why is this not right? Because I'm going to give you some examples. Cities in the south, communities in the east, communities even in the north, where fighting or fighting was taking place, yes, these communities, you know, they lose the businessmen they own, the people who worked there, they go out, a lot of businesses are broken. And they don't pay taxes on land, of course, they don't pay taxes on locals, they don't pay VAT because they don't have workers physically, and only at the expense of PDF military units do they get the opportunity to restore what's destroyed not in large volumes, but even less. They get to go through the winter normally, because many of the measures I've been communicating with in the late winters of 2022-2023, they've been telling me, if it wasn't for the PFO, the situation would be catastrophic, it would freeze a lot of cities in the front territory. But just so you know, even these communities, no matter how much of that money they spend on the security and defense forces, buying cars, buying drones, buying diesel for these cars. Because you're going to be surprised, but if the car isn't armed, it's provided by volunteers, it's fueled by the army, it's in the Naziwardia, it's not given to the border guards. I'm not going to say, I don't know, honestly, but in the army, there's definitely no way they're going to give. And it's the volunteers who shut it down, like a lot of other things. According to the Ministry of Economics alone, on September 1st of this year, only through ProZorro did local communities buy drones for over 1 billion dollars, you think about these numbers. And it's estimated by experts that 45 percent of the military PFCs they collected were spent on security and defence. Today, they want to take it all downtown and with good intentions, as they say, divide it and reissue it. You don't have to be a great expert to understand a very simple thing if money goes directly from community to community -- much faster than they go from community to Kiev and from Kiev to part. And 10 percent directly on the brigade accounts that are now done, they're not saving the situation. That's why I'm calling for this law not to be supported, to keep this money in the community, not to finally kill the decentralization that we've seen in the last four years, and this law is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u595	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Next, Juliana Nina Petrovna. Please, your 445th amendment. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u596	Dear colleagues, right after September 12th, we started talking to our colleagues, and in conjunction with local self-government, we communicate literally with all the areas and where there are representatives of our MEPs of European Solidarity, there was work going on. Work was done, how to find the right solution. And I think at the Ministry of Finance somewhere else, they understand how difficult it was for us to decide in the 15th year to channel such a large portion of PDF into local budgets. Please understand, my dear Prime Minister wanted to centralize all taxes at the central level, for any authority it was a major task. And when the decision to decentralize was made, by the way, one of the steps to be taken on the way to joining the great European family was taken. You're crossing it out right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u597	Thank you. 445 Amendment of Jujanina She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:24:53]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Next. Jacik, 446. Don't insist. 447th, Babenko. Don't insist. 448th, Brainy. Don't insist. 449, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 450th, Gorbenko and colleagues. 451, Gobrenko and colleagues. Don't insist. 522th, Mokan and colleagues. Oh, it's Mikisha, isn't it? Please, 452. Please, Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u598	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 452nd, 55th, 58th, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u599	55th is a potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u600	I'm sorry. Okay. 58th and 586th. Can I have two minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u601	58th and 586th. Please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u602	My colleagues, thank you. Well, the main thing that I'm talking about is not the first line anymore, it's not just the military PDF, which, we're going to be honest and fair, is actually going to be taken into the community, it's not just that they don't have the resources to help the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other units, in general, the entire security and defence sector. Nor will it be a resource to support and support the families and families of military personnel. And what I'm saying in general is that local self-government now does not actually have the full capacity to materially support the security and defence sectors. It is precisely 586 that my amendment speaks of what is being done in the End and Transitional Situations, asking for a new paragraph to be added: "To establish that during the war period, the expenditure of local budgets that can be implemented from all local budgets is the cost of financial and material support for the security and defence sector." It's very simple, obviously, on the surface. Local self-government wants to provide legal and legal financial and material support to the security and defence sectors, and to be free of charge. Not from the audit service, not from other inspection bodies and, above all, from any law enforcement agency. Not from the police, not from the D.B.I., not from the prosecutor's office, not from anyone to be able to help. Why they don't accept it, I don't understand. I don't understand why 9559-d, which allows it, is all well prescribed there, which is not what it's also doing, I don't understand. Local self-government is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u603	Thank you. Then we have the next amendment. Pippa doesn't insist with his colleagues. An alien with a colleague does not insist. Goncharenko, 455. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u604	Dear Mr. Head, I have an offer, I have 11 rights left. 455, 456, 478, 491, 492, 514, 542, 552, 616, 744 and 750 are 11 right hand. I'm asking you to give me eight minutes of time, and I might put one or two to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u605	One second, how much do you have left?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u606	I have 11 rights, I counted them from 455 to 750. Do you want to count it again? I can do it by numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u607	No, no, I have, I'm just here with Arthur Vladimirovich. 455, 456, 478, 491, 492, 514, 542, 552, 616, 744 and 750. I'll give you eight minutes instead of these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u608	Eight minutes, and I'll put two of them to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u609	Which one, can you say now?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u610	Yes, I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u611	Let me finish Alexiyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u612	Thank you. I'll put 744 on the vote and 750.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u613	Okay, please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u614	Thank you. Dear friends, we're actually, for me, this is the end of the discussion of this issue, because now I'm speaking and I can't speak any more about it. Because these are the adjustments that are, even though there will still be approvals, but this is clearly not going to be today. So I want to put it in general. This law is called for the support of an army, the Armed Forces. I just want to tell you what really needs to be done to support the army. It's not really for the look, it's not for the cleavage, it's for the cleavage, it's for the cleavage. I just want to, I know there's no one here to listen to me, a couple of people in the hall. But I hope that someone in Ukraine will hear it and, most importantly, hear the people who are there in the trenches, hear what they're talking about at least in the Supreme Council, not just switch to their own affairs, to the Bochos at Thai hotels, like Mikola Tishchenko, to the Cole Centers and his rackets there, and on everything else, there's a "stolen" and everything else they're making. So I just want to tell you and say what really needs to be done. First of all, we need to start respecting the military. That's the main thing. It all begins with respect, because what's happening today, when President Zelensky said, you're going to get a "thirty" all the way to the end of the war, everyone who's in the fields: military, DSNS, police -- everyone, then the war didn't end, and the "thirty" ended. And that's just disrespect. And he didn't even find the strength to get out of himself, and say, you know, guys, I thought I wanted to, but something was bothering me. I don't know, you know, who gets in the way, who gets in the way, who gets in the way, who gets in the way, who gets in the way, who gets in the way, who gets in the way, who gets in the way, who gets in the way, who gets in the way, who gets in the way, who gets in the way, who gets in the way, who doesn't get in the way, who doesn't get in the way, who doesn't get in the way, who doesn't get in the way, who doesn't get in the way, who doesn't get in the way, who doesn't get in the way, who doesn't get in the way, who doesn't get in the way, who doesn't get in the money, who doesn't get in the way, who doesn't get in the Well, come out and tell it to people in the face: we can't pay. And you want me to tell you why he doesn't come out and do it. And I'll tell you guys why he doesn't come out and do it. He doesn't go out and do that, because people immediately ask, and then it turns out, we don't have the money, and we don't have the drums, we don't have the balls, we don't have 17 bracelets. For this, it takes 17 bucks to get rid of those who do. And that's the first one. Again, respect. We promised the people. It's like when we left, people, someone went volunteer, someone mobilized, went away, and then a month later they said, you know, I changed my mind, they shoot here, they fly here, people die here, I don't want to. Well, you can't do that either. Why is it possible for the President to do so, and why is it possible for Parliament to do so, and why is it possible for the government to do so? Let's be honest then, you said do it, you said do it. It's manly, it's human. Let's move on. It's about 30, not the whole story. By the way, the '30s' we even passed this law in the session hall on April 10th, six months ago. So far he's gone, they're hiding, I've said 500 times in these two days about the '30s', the Cabal's decree -- everyone's ignoring it. They don't have to sign or return money to the military. Let's move on. People had average wages. I mean, if you've been mobilized, but you've been getting money at work. You didn't get asked whether you wanted to go or not, you got the money, you got taken away, you left. What do they have you for, you're doing a job for the state, so the state has to pay you back, why do you have to lose them? Last year, this law was repealed. Okay, that's when the '30s worked, but then they took the '30s', and the same law didn't come back. My law is now in the Supreme Council. Now there's a bill, my law, to return the average earnings to the military. Let's take it out and look at it. All right, there's no "thirty," so let's return the average wage. No, you don't. We don't care, we don't care. N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N- Okay, move on. So maybe we have all the good stuff in the military, why pay them there, they're in chocolate, as we're told, they have a "percent." And you know that there are people who are limitedly fit, not fit to be brought out of state, and these people get 500, 600, 700 dollars per month. Once again, a month. Well, whatever you call it, it's not a disgrace. Well, tell me, what do you call it? How can you live on 500, 600, 700 bucks a month? Yes, now it's the law, and when I've been trying for a long time, it's also been here for hours, and speaking, 20,000,100 dollars are limited to the protection of the Motherland, only to them, who are out of state, who will be paid. What about the others? In military service, after military service, you don't have to pay for anything after sickness? Let them live on 500 bucks a month. Perhaps one of you will try to live on 500 dollars a month. It's a disgrace! And these are people who have already lost their health to the state, so let's get them back. Let's see if we can finally let these people go. In the Supreme Council, my bill: to grant the right to demobilization is limitedly appropriate. Well, you've already been considered limitedly fit, you've already given your health to the state. You want to serve, there's room for you to serve. But if you can't do it, let the man go. No, it's not. No, we can't let go. Even the disabled I, the third group. We also have a bill in Parliament on this, and we don't let them go home. Well, it's like a cripple and a group that he can serve? No, they won't. In general, the main question, maybe the question of what I said is payment, it's payback, it's vacation, it's UBD. How long can you get tired of your head? Our task force has been working and making changes to get people automatically UBD status, not to write applications for months and years from the trenches, not to write applications for processing personal data, and they're told no, go look for their battle logs. What magazines? Half the parts have been burned, they've changed these parts a long time ago, people are sitting in trenches, they need to fight there, not write war and peace and statements. It's a simple decision: to give automatically to people who have received a combat bonus. A simple solution: giving people who are injured doesn't mean they're zero, give hundreds of thousands of people automatically. And it stretches, and it stretches, and so far this bill in the Supreme Council is not being considered. How long does it take? And it's probably the main thing. When we talk about respect, respect is that the protection of the Fatherland is a matter of everyone, not of one million people who have been trapped, someone has voluntarily gone, someone has been mobilized, the contractors who have long since completed the contract have automatically been extended, the strikers who have been held for three years are not released. Well, then, my friends, well, I guess we should be honest, but how many of them are they serving? Well, let's call it a day. Well, okay, 18 months of my bill proposes the right to demobilization. Well, okay, not 18-24, but give them a light at the end of the tunnel to these people. Tell me, you've done your job, you've saved the Motherland, we'll do our job to support you, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u615	Dear colleagues, I'm putting two modifications to Hotcharyenko 744 and 750. Amendment to 744 of the Gončarenko authorship. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:38:02]] For-7. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. And please, 750 revisions to the authorship of Pottery. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:38:29]] For -6 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u616	How about factions?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u617	The factions. Please, let's move on. Let's move on. The following are the amendments: 457th, the Cabal. Don't insist. 459th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 460s, Mokan. Don't insist. 461, Cabal. Don't insist. 462nd, Brainy. Don't insist. 463, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 464th, Mokan. Don't insist. 465th, Cabal. Don't insist. 466th, Brainy. Don't insist. 467, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 468, Mokan. Don't insist. 469th, Cabal. Don't insist. 470th, Brainy. Don't insist. 471, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 472. Mocan. Don't insist. 473rd. The Cabal. Don't insist. 474. Smart. Don't insist. 475th. Mocan. Don't insist. 476th. Beresine. Don't insist. 477th. Vasilchenko and colleagues. Don't insist. 479th. Hiccup. Don't insist. 481. Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please. I mean, 481, 482, 483, 484 and 518. Four minutes instead. Yeah? Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u618	Dear colleagues, I'm still trying to finish to make my mind more complete. When we were introducing an alternative bill, we immediately offered a compromise. And it's a shame that the Committee on Budgets and so on in the Supreme Council that you didn't even hear what an alternative bill was. Because we're all talking about the income tax of individuals. This is the global part of this project. And we also have a road fund. And by looking very clearly at things, we suggested: let's just do the road fund so that it doesn't belong in a general boiler, and it goes to our Armed Forces. And in order for it to go to our Armed Forces, and if we're talking about building our defence complex, that we need to build new productions, we support that, and we need to channel a huge resource. Not even 50 billion, as you suggested, you can have all 90 billion of the expected road fund, and that's living money, that's fuel excise, that's produced and imported, and that's for transportation. It's money that goes into every place's budget. So it's to be stored and used in a special fund for the development of a defence and industrial complex, but through budgetary lending of targeted programs. And Kamishin said yes, I repeat. So you don't have to throw 90 billion into a general boiler. It's all the same as rolling into asphalt, like you did in the last two years. Please don't make any sense, I'm talking to everyone, then they don't have any value, this money. Second question about the PDF. In the alternative, we offered 70 percent of the local authorities to spend on military applications. You're saying that military applications can be made up or things aren't written down first. That's not true. All the military agree with the local authorities with their financial departments. So we could actually settle for an alternative and amend it if we found such a compromise. You've forced us all here today to sit here and prove the idea that people will hear more than the MPs. Deputies, it turns out, don't need it. And I'd very much like someone to deny whether we've come together for a parliamentary discussion to express our views on this, because there are healthier mechanisms to help our Armed Forces, where there will be control, where there will be responsibility, where there will be programs that colleagues have talked about that we can control exactly. It's not going to be a cost to calculate, it's not going to be the sewing of some side-by-side side-by-side expense, except the Armed Forces. So we actually offered to give 30 percent more to the local authorities to build civilian infrastructure, civil protection. And what's going on with the schools right now, get out of Kiev, all the schools are working offline, because they can't ensure the safety of the children. It's in vain that you put it all down on the brakes and let your colleagues' offer go to waste. One day you'll come back to them, and I'm sure of it, just like you did back in the Road Fund, when it was all concentrated in the state budget. Too bad you want it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u619	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. You have completed all your amendments. Thank you. Next up, dear fellows, let's go. Yacik. 485, not necessarily. 486th, Babenko and colleagues. Don't insist. The 487s, the Smarts and the Colleagues don't insist. 488th, Petrunjak and colleagues don't insist. 489th, Mokan and colleagues. Don't insist. 490th, Pippa and colleagues. Don't insist. 494th, Arahama and colleagues. Don't insist. 495th, intellectuals and colleagues. Don't insist. 496th, Petrunjak and colleagues. Don't insist. 497th, Mokan and colleagues. Don't insist. 499th, intellectuals and colleagues. Don't insist. 500th, Petrunjak and colleagues. Don't insist. 501, Mokan and colleagues. Don't insist. 502s, Smarts and colleagues. Don't insist. 503, Petrunjak and colleagues. Don't insist. 504th, Mokan and colleagues. Don't insist. 505th, intellectuals and colleagues. Don't insist. 506th, Petrunjak and colleagues. Don't insist. 507, Mokan and colleagues. Don't insist. 509th, Smart and Colleagues. Don't insist. 510th, Mokan and colleagues. Don't insist. Next. Next up, colleagues of honor, 516th, Herasimov. I'm sorry, I have this information: 516, 517, 543, 544, 618, 747, 748, 749 are the amendments to Ariev and Gerasimov's co-authorship. I'll give you six minutes. I understand you've been doing six minutes of this stuff, and you don't insist on it? Please. Turn on the microphone, please, Arieva. Dear colleagues, six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u620	Thank you very much. If we're talking about the need to support a military-industrial complex that is actually going to take money from local communities, first of all, we need to understand, at least, whether it's state-owned, they respect the companies of the military-industrial complex. Since what's been happening with Ukrainian armored equipment, with the Luc design office, and here's a fresh example, when NABU actually stopped the work of a manufacturer of Ukrainian thermal mirrors, Archer, a very well-known manufacturer, not enough to remove not only financial documentation from them, but copies of engineering documents, then the question is, if we take that money, will it not turn out to be spent in vain? Because any attack on a military-industrial complex today can be compared to a national betrayal. And they happen and they happen all the time. And I'm absolutely sure that we have to put order there first. One second. The financing of GDP and defence needs can be made entirely from other sources. Or partly take away the PFO, as we suggest a 30 percent compromise, and add it to the road fund, add it to a much stronger control over the distribution of costs in tender procedures. And I can give you an example, just from a fresh example: over 400 million dollars were spent on purchases in the middle of the NEC "Energot" to secure the Zaporozhye nuclear power plant while it was already occupied. And when we ask in Energoatom, what's going on, and how did you buy goods and services for the occupied station, half of which is a caterer for restaurants and buffets at ZAES? – they answer that: you, the national MPs, have no right to be interested in such things, and all these questions mean undermining Ukraine's energy security. This is cynical and insolent when such words are used to cover up banal thefts. And there's a lot of these tenders. If you pick them up, excuse me, then if you stop tiring, if you give them an expression, on tenders, if you stop spending the money completely on needless phone right now, on TV shows that have 2.2 billion dollars on it, then you can. Please take Juliana Nina Petrovna, she will collect in just a few days all the money you need to cover the expenses you want to take to the local communities. And if you're taking these expenses from local communities, I'll just keep telling you what's going to happen. Besides, I've already mentioned that they won't be able to provide any more military units that are located in these local communities and that they have licenses there, especially cars, that our new military can forget about cars. Because the Mini-Defense doesn't buy them, and the community can't buy what's left of what they have. The new drones can be forgotten. These are all little things that seem small, but they're just necessary for the defenders, you can forget. But many communities will also be able to forget about the purchase of medicines for hospitals, the purchase of necessary educational materials for schools, the purchase of essential parts for water pumps, to spend money on buying the necessary supplies to repair the power grids. By the way, it's about the power grids. Reuters has now analyzed the situation in Ukraine and has made it clear that by the next heating season, we are not ready for the winter because of the lack of funds and time. I mean, time is clear. But the cost is the same. And what we're talking about is that if we didn't have enough money, they were part of the theft, and now we're not even thinking about how to protect ourselves from the energy collapse that could happen again this winter, and the country's and foreign experts are talking about it. So there's actually no money left in the local communities. Those who are richer will somehow be scratched. And where the heavy weight of the military PDF will be high, they will be nothing and will again be like the days of Yanukovitch to go to Kabmin and hand-deploy all of this. So, dear friends, I appeal to one simple thing, to a reasonable approach. Let's just figure out what we really need to leave to the communities, not take away everything that can be passed on. And that would be a healthy compromise for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u621	Thank you. 519 repairs, Mama. Don't insist. Yes, I'm sorry, then, National Deputy Ariev, will you complete all your amendments, right, with this statement? Thank you. Oh, they'll be here in the end. Yes, thank you. I'm sorry. Then Mamka, 519th. I don't insist. Don't insist, I'm sorry. 520th, Yatzik. Don't insist. 521st, Brainy. Don't insist. 522nd, Brainy. Don't insist. 523rd, Mazurashu. Don't insist. 524th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 525th, Mokan, colleagues. Don't insist. 526th, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 527th Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 528th, Aleksiev. Don't insist. 531st, Mezenceva with colleagues. Don't insist. 532th, Tistik with his colleagues. Don't insist. I'm a testist. Don't insist. 533th, Zagorjejko with colleagues. Don't insist. 534th, Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov. Don't insist. With colleagues. 535th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 536th, Mokan. Don't insist. 537th, Mokan. Don't insist. 538th, Pippa and his colleagues. Don't insist. 539, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 540th, Leonov. Don't insist. 541th, Savichuk. Don't insist. Wait a second. Five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five. Don't insist. Next. 546th, Brainy. Don't insist. With colleagues. 548th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 549, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 550th, Leonov. Don't insist. 551s, Bondar. Don't insist. 553, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Oh, that's what Ariev is, isn't it? 553 and there's another one, right? This is Gerasimov's 553rd. I'm sorry, you've already taken her place. 553, you're on. Excuse me. 554th, Mama. Don't insist. 555, Purtova. Don't insist. 556th, Krulko. Don't insist. 557th, Timoshenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 558th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. 559th, Alekseiv. Don't insist. 560, Brainy with his colleagues. Don't insist. 561, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 562nd, Alexiyczuk. Don't insist. 563th, Aliksiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 564th, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 565th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 566th, Bondar. Don't insist. 567th, Mazurashu. Don't insist. 568th, Pasic. Don't insist. 569th, Laba. Don't insist. 570th, Laba. Don't insist. 571th, Pasic. Don't insist. 572, Mama. Don't insist. 573, Mazurashu. I already did. 574th, Krulko. Don't insist. 575th, Timoshenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 576th, Lozinski. Don't insist. 577th, Bezgin. Don't insist. 578, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 580th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 581th, Alekseyev. Don't insist. 582, Brainy with colleagues. Don't insist. 583, Aliksiyczuk and his colleagues. Don't insist. 584th, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 585th, Bondar. Don't insist. 587, Mama and her colleagues. Don't insist. 588th, Prostuk. Don't insist. 589th, Mama. Don't insist. 590th Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 591s, Savichuk. Don't insist. 592nd, Krulko. Don't insist. 593, Aliksiyczuk. Don't insist. 594th, Aliksiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 595th, Timoshenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 596, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 597th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 598th, Shapovalov. Don't insist. 599th, Bondar. Don't insist. 600th, Alekseyev. Don't insist. 601, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 602th, Aleksiev. Don't insist. 603, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 604th, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 605, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 606th, Timoshenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 607th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 608th, Bondar. Don't insist. 609, Alekseyev. Don't insist. 610th, Iron. Don't insist. 611, Brainy with colleagues. Don't insist. 612, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 613th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 614th, Savichuk. Don't insist. 615th, Rubble. Don't insist. Yeah, we've been through these. Next in line, 619, with my colleagues. Don't insist. 620th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 621st, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 622 Raducci and his colleagues. Don't insist. Raduccino himself, I'm sorry. Don't insist. 623rd, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 624th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 625th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 626th, Gerasimov and his colleagues. Nope. 626th. Yeah, sorry, yeah. From 626 to 636, 7 minutes, right? The word is given to Ariev. 626 - 636 revisions by Ariev and his colleagues Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u622	Regrettably, it is very often the case in Ukraine that some of the locusts begin to grow smaller and weaker. Now we've decided to fill the holes in the central budget at the expense of the local communities. And they're taking away 94 billion. And if we have tax breaks, now the first thing the shakes start is who? FOPs are natural persons that are entrepreneurs. Now I'm being told by people that there are bravado boys in the markets, and they're just starting to take their skin off, and they're giving them a tattoo, and they're doing business, and they're doing business. I mean, you know, it reminds me of this other famous children's cartoon about Chipolino and the kingdom of vegetables, when some of the vegetables of the señors had some of the last bursts. I know it's Janni Rodari, he's left, he's closer to the socialists, but somehow we're actually starting to shake just the little ones, and the big ones aren't touching. Why don't we look at the budget, like the budget, the budget for 2024, and analyze what the profit is from those who extract useful fossils. And there will be very interesting moments. In particular, the rent for natural gas producers in Ukraine is projected to decrease by 41 billion dollars compared to 2023. And I want to remind you who's behind who. For gas construction. And this is the Colomeysky company, this is the Amechtova company, this is the Pinchuck company, this is the Zloczevski company, which was the Minister of Environmental Protection in the government of Yanukovich, this is even the company Shufrich. But I think Schuffritch is a little bit busy with other questions right now. But they're doing something normal, they don't want to do it, they're reducing their rent for natural gas. And then there's the ore, and there's the gas condensate, and there's the fraction of which you extract the oil. So let's look at these sources. Once again, we have a member of our faction, the national deputy, Nina Yuzanin, who swims in the budget like a shark in the Mediterranean, and she can find anything to leave as much as possible, to leave in a peaceful local community. Now, look, if we're talking about how many communities are going to lose, then Kiev, as a city, is going to be hard for him, but, well, he's going to survive more or less. Although Kiev spent 1 billion 200 million dollars this year on defense. Planned and set aside. And a city like Zwegel, which we've recently renamed, where the budget is almost entirely based on the revenues from the military parts that are in it, so it's not going to be overrun, but it's not going to be necessary. I suggested that I have one of the amendments so that these cities, where the share of the military VAT is 30 percent or more, would not be affected at all. Logic is very simple. What we said is that it's just necessary for the city to exist. That's what they do. Will they do it? What will support the vitality of these cities, which are behind our military, where their families live, where children will not be able to go to school or receive quality medical care on the ground? So I still want to warn you that, especially at a time when there is a threat to the very existence of the State, we do not create sources of tension in local communities, especially those that are most affected by the removal of these funds. Because it's going to be, right now you're going to see, prosthetic moods are going to spread like a snowy coma. And this is absolutely unnecessary for Ukraine today. So I'm going to say, let's do as a compromise option suggests, such as the Association of Cities of Ukraine. Unfortunately, however, there is not enough of us here today to deal with these issues in substance. And the thing is, as we're in a hurry, literally in a few days, decisions are made on the profile committee without a broad discussion that could help us get out of a difficult situation, well, actually, then we'll be scratching everyone else. So, dear fellows, I understand one thing, we have many more challenges and challenges now from abroad, because more than 50 percent of our budget is overlapping our partners, which require real reform, and we need to finally do these reforms. But if we're going to create tension in the back, we have a good chance to blow up the work of our Ukrainian Armed Forces, the best job they're doing right now, protecting Ukraine. But let's take this completely in terms of calculation, not of someone's desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u623	Thank you. Dear colleagues, further, 637 amendments, Herasimov, please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u624	Ruslan Alexiyovich, big request, 20 minutes of the show and I'm taking the 877, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u625	Thank you. Please give me 20 minutes of Arthur Volodymyrovich's performance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u626	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! Now in this room, despite the fact that there are not many MPs, but the most stable here have remained, including perhaps 19 people from the "Serve of the People" as a whole, a bill that seems to be a noble goal, but which unfortunately kills completely the reform of decentralization. And we need to understand that this reform is one of the keys to our journey to the European Union. Because decentralization, the power of the community, the ability of the communities in the European Union is a foundation and is a key principle of the vitality of every state that is today a member of the European community. That is why the goal is noble, but the method chosen for this is very wrong, I want to put it so softly. You know, we're in the Supreme Council, I think, almost every deputy, I personally, as co-chair of the faction of European Solidarity, received a letter from the Associations of Cities of Ukraine, where they post very clearly what it might lead to. I'd like to quote you literally a few moments from this letter. In the Supreme Council of Ukraine, draft Law 10037 provides for the removal of VAT from local budgets from income taxes in the form of financial security received by military personnel, police officers, and persons of the military and principal ranks. They immediately write that this will mean the loss of 20 billion dollars in local budgets in 2023 and less than 65 billion dollars in 2024, which will result in the destruction of the state defence system, formed on 24 February 2022, such as, attention, the interaction of the central security of the Ministry of Defence and the network of over thousands of sources of funding, and the provision of security and defence services from local budgets. You know how powerful the communication between the military and the local communities was in the vast majority of our communities. Since the beginning of a full-scale invasion in 2022-2023, local authorities have received more than 100 billion U.S. dollars of military PDF, 45 percent of which have already directed directly to the security and defence forces and have provided funding to the state’s delegates, without compensation, for the granting of free services to citizens of the community established by law. In fact, there's a lot of these services, and the state gives the assignment to the local authorities, but, you know, in most cases, it forgets to allocate the funds. Continued, the costs of local self - control associated with military action exceed 77 percent of the revenues from military PFCs. This is not only the help of the security and defence forces but also the provision of UPR, the cleaning and restoration of bombardment buildings and infrastructure, the maintenance of hospitals, including the frontline, and the provision of assistance to the families of military personnel. The help of local self - government agencies to military units, much faster and more purposeful than centralized ones, saves the lives and health of military personnel and their technology today. Moreover, Ukraine’s combined defence forces receive much more assistance than is budgeted, since the communities are adding these VAT funds to local budgets and to local businesses and volunteers. I quoted this letter to make you realize that local communities are not just helping the defence forces, but they're doing it in a much larger amount than they're getting military PFCs. So far away, you know, let's go through specific examples. Why can't we vote for this law? For example, did you know that the Polish communities are targeting the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the defense forces, much more money than they are getting in terms of VAT? And let's just say specific examples. For example, since the beginning of the year, the Opishnian community has received some 20 million dollars from the military’s PDF, and it has targeted the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the defence forces about 60 million, or 3 times more. A specific example and confirmation of the general figures we received from the Ukrainian City Association. The Bilocerkian community has received $200,000 in military funding, but it has been targeting nearly 3 million dollars since the beginning of the year. This is a specific example. The shadow community, which received some 2 million dollars in military funding, sent more than 6 million dollars to help military personnel and their families. And that is, not counting the aid that directly to the military, the DSNS, the law enforcement, and that's about 8 million more dollars. So look, more than 14.2. Lochwicki community. There are over 20 million dollars worth of territorial defenses funded. Ten million people were bought "maviks", thermal visionaries, equipment of different kinds. At the same time, the military made a little over 5 million dollars during this period of time. I can't help but mention the Rechetilian community. In the 23rd year, the budget of the Rechetilian Community had slightly more than 42 million PFCs, the so-called military PFCs, and almost 20 million have already been allocated from the military budget for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, 9 million have been spent on shelter, and now the funds are also being spent on preparation for the heating season. Why I'm giving these specific examples, because a lot of the military PDF not only spends these forces on defense, but also depends on the vitality of these communities, depending on how these communities are going to go through winter today and how warm or cold our citizens' homes will be. But the situation is even more tense, it's in communities that are in frontal and frontal territories. You know, in addition to thinking about winter, you have to think about hospitals, you know, about teachers, they're still thinking about restoring property that's been destroyed by racists, infrastructure, and they're channeling quite a lot of money today. And I can quote the military head of Kharkiv. Because the law of Kharkiv, the city of Kharkiv, can be adopted today, please listen to the people's deputies of Kharkiv, it may not be enough to receive about 650 million dollars just this year. And in 2024, because of this law that the Servant of the People is going to vote today, Kharkiv will not get nearly 3.5 billion dollars. Is that fair to the Harkians? I don't think so. And there should be no political preferences or differences. There must be a sure position here that in the frontal, frontal zone, the military PDF must be at the disposal of the cities. And I remind you that, despite the fact that each day in these cities, fires are being fired, regardless of the fact that they are being forced to spend a lot of money on rehabilitating damaged infrastructure, it is these cities that are also spending a lot of money, as I said, more than 45 percent on security and defence needs. Now the attention for Chernigov, here in the Service of the People, is the MPs representing the Chernigus, so the Chernobyl budget is going to lose about 700 million dollars. And let's not forget that some of these are still the government's debt to utilities for heat, and if this is taken away, and today this law says that the fourth quarter of this year is completely out of town and villages, then, dear colleagues, it's for, even for a big city like the Chernigs, it's going to be a very big problem. Mikolayev, we have national MPs from Mikolayev. They mainly represent the "Sug of the People" – the Party of Zelenski, so as far as Mikolayev is concerned, because of this law it can lose about two billion 700 million dollars – 46 percent of the city's funds. And you have to understand that the standard situation for cities like Kharkiv, Mikolai, Herson, Kramatorsk, Slaviansk, all of them. Now, Dnipro, which is under fire today, I can count very much, Nicopolis is necessarily, well, the standard situation doesn't work, because there are problems with businesses that are leaving. So there is a problem with getting money from land and real estate. And there's a problem with the FDA of ordinary workers, because businesses are closing down. And that's why this minus 2 billion 700 million dollars that Santa can get from this law can be very critical to this city. And you know what's interesting, the government promises that we'll make it up to you. Well, you know, at Yanukovich's time, it was already happening when the mayors were forced to go to Kiev for a gift, and here in turn to stand by and beg for money so that the city could at least maintain its vitality. And it was only when decentralization reform was complete since 2014, when money was sent to places, that I think everyone saw what a breakthrough in their development was made by local communities and in terms of the support of doctors, and in terms of the support of teachers, and in terms of the restoration of the infrastructure they had. You know, we can think of problems only in front or frontal areas. No, it's not. The Jewish community in Lviv, there are also the Lviv deputies in the Service of the People, the military tax is 12 million. If they take it away, the community will be very unsweet. And that says the city's head, which counts every penny today. In fact, you know, more than 200 communities today, and I have this list, and they've decided that the PDF should stay in place. There's not going to be any going to Kiev and it's going to be distributed again in some way. It's an axiom that any person who looks at in any way at how bureaucratic processes happen in the state. The level of corruption at the central level is more today than the level of corruption at the local level. We can talk as much as we can about the fact that some communities have put a brick or paved roads, repaired roads, but you know, I'm very grateful to the head of the budget committee who said yesterday that the road fund that the central authority is building roads for is still running big theft is already being used this year. I mean, no matter what the war was, he was conquered. So over 200 communities made that decision. Among them are many local councils of the Winnitsk region, including the Winnitsk district council, many councils of the Volin region, many councils of the Zitomir region. I can count them, there's a lot of them. Carpathians, the Zacarpathian District Council, made such a decision. In Ivano-Frankivsky, the Ivano-Frankiv District Council and very many community districts have adopted such references to the Supreme Council to prevent the adoption of this law. The Kyiv region, very much the advice of the Kyiv region. Kirovogradska, very much pleased to have been accepted from the Kirovograd region. The Lviv region, beginning with the Lviv District Council and ending with the Lviv City Council, accepted such a request. The Odessa region, the Poltava region, has made such a decision, and there is much advice. Plain region, Ternopil district. You see, I'm counting just like that, selectively, very much the advice that these decisions have taken. The Hmelnicka region, including the Hmelnicka district council, also made such a decision. The Cherkas region, the Chernigiv region, the Cherniewec region, they made such decisions. And today this wall of decision-making from the local councils, and I want to remind you that at the beginning of the large-scale invasion, the local councils themselves were among the main ones who, together with the army and with the locals, organized defenses on the ground. Yes, they are the ones who live on earth, and they are the ones who need help today. You can't let that happen. You're going to tell me what the answer is, because defense money is really needed, but you can't kill decentralization. I'll give you an answer right away. Peter Poroshenko, along with the European Solidarity Team, registered and introduced to Parliament Bill 10037-2, which clearly took all the questions into account. First of all, all the money stayed in the communities, so we didn't violate the rights and we didn't destroy the decentralization, but there was a clear list of where that money could go. And according to the Prososhenka bill, "European Solidarity", 70 percent of military VAT funds are directed by local communities to the needs of military troops. It's very important. 30 percent of the military’s PPF funds are directed by local communities to providing protective facilities so that there is no situation like the bomb shelters, beginning with Kiev and ending with other cities in Ukraine. And 100 percent of the road fund funds to be transferred to the main fund of the state budget are directed towards budget lending to the military industry. Don't spend money on businesses to not know where to find them, and they disappear, and now a lot of criminal matters are being investigated, but to lend to defense companies, for example, from state banks, where we get double control, not just control of the state, but control of the state bank. And finally, what I'd like to say. The key point we need to understand is that we must never violate the Constitution. The Constitution has been violated several times. There's this book. For the first time it's broken -- read carefully the conclusions of the Chief Legal Authority, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration -- many of the rules of these laws violate the Constitution of Ukraine. Remember, I said: With good intentions, the road to hell is paved. That's the law. And second moment. Let's not forget that it is the Constitution of Ukraine that clearly sets -- and this was adopted by the previous call of the Supreme Council and signed by President Prashenko -- our path to NATO and the EU. And there are clear responsibilities for every branch of power: the President, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine -- to do everything to ensure that our journey to the European Union is as fast as possible and to NATO as quickly as possible. So decentralization, as I said, the power of local communities is one of the key elements of the European Union's vitality. And today, by violating these elements, by undermining decentralization reform, we are actually taking a step, not towards the European Union, but from the European Union. And I don't know how this corresponds to the Ukrainian authorities' statements today that we're going to do everything. As we can see, statements and actual actions vary slightly. And finally, you know, I'd like to quote the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dennis Schmigal, who was in this room today. In one of his talks, he said that no community would have a smaller budget in the 24th year than it was in the 21st year, it would not suffer. Well, I have some comments about that. Why? Because let's put it this way, economists who deal with issues know that there's an inflation rate, and we need to adjust it from the point of view of living and the minimum of living, and the inflation that's going on, but let's just say, we understand that war is now, we understand. But let's remember this promise made by the Prime Minister, let's remember this promise made by Mr. Zelensky's government, let's remember this promise by the Ukrainian authorities, and we'll keep a close eye on whether or not any community will really suffer in the 24th year, and whether their budgets are actually going to be the same as they were in the 21st. Thank you for your attention. I urge you not to vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-06-m0.u627	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. So all your amendments to 877, including we've been through, you won't insist. All your amendments are amendments that are in co-authorship with you. Let's move on. We still have a few changes left. 718, Dmitri Alexanderovich, my colleague. Don't insist. 719th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 720th, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 721st Symphony with colleagues. Don't insist. 722th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 723, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 724th, Brainy with colleagues. Don't insist. 725th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 726th, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 727th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 728th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. Then it's counted, counted, counted, counted, counted, counted. Next up, 736, with my colleagues. Don't insist. 739, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 742, Brainy with his colleagues. Don't insist. 743, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 746th, Rubble. Don't insist. 751, Krulko. Don't insist. 752, Mama Grigori Mikolayovich. Don't you insist? No, it's not. 753, Prostuk. Don't insist. 754th, Prostruk. Don't insist. 757th, Igor Fries. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 758th, Tistik. Don't insist. 759th, with his colleagues. Don't insist. 760s, Mazurashu. Don't insist. 761s, Savichuk. Don't insist. 762, Purtova. Don't insist. 763, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 764th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 765th Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 766, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 767, Timoshenko with his colleagues. Don't insist. 768, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 769, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 770, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 771st, Shapovalov. Don't insist. 772, Bondar. Don't insist. 773, I'm an alien with a colleague of Bilozer's. Don't insist. Thank you. 775th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 776th, Kiselevski. Don't insist. 777th, Alekseiv. Don't insist. 778th, Iron. Don't insist. 779th, Brainy with colleagues. Don't insist. 780s, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 781st, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 782, Pavlouk. You don't insist, do you? Okay. 783, Brainy with colleagues. Don't insist. 784, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 785, Brainy with colleagues. Don't insist. 786th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 787, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 788, Brainy with his colleagues. Don't insist. 789th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 790, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 791, Brainy with colleagues. Don't insist. 792th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 793, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 794, Brainy with colleagues. Don't insist. 795, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 796, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. Seventy-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven. Don't insist. 798, Petrunjak with his colleagues. Don't insist. 799, Mokan with colleagues. Don't insist. 800, Brainy with his colleagues. Don't insist. 801, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 802, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 803, Brainy with colleagues. Don't insist. 804, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 805, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 806th, Brainy with colleagues. Don't insist. 807, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 808th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 809th, Umumkov with his colleagues. Don't insist. 810, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. 811, Brainy with colleagues. Don't insist. 812, Mokan with his colleagues. Don't insist. 813th, Mokan too, Vasil Ivanovich and his colleagues. Don't insist. 814th, Petrunjak with colleagues. Don't insist. Then we have 819, Francis Igor. Don't insist. Next, Gerasimov, we've been through these amendments. Yes, Herasimov, we've been through these amendments. Gerasimov. We're through. And Gerasimov in 877. We're done. The noble colleagues, the distinguished national deputies, the consideration of matters of order today, unfortunately, we have not finished. Thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of the meeting in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. In unity, our strength. Together to victory. And the glory of Ukraine!
