ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-26-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, we're about to start a meeting. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Or not yours, please. Dear colleagues, the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-26-m0.u2	Honorary National Deputies of Ukraine, today the delegation of the National Council of Austria, headed by the Honourable Mr. President of the National Council Wolfgang Sobotka, participates in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in the context of the state of war" today, we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I point out that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to abide by the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. In the event of air anxiety, there will be a pause in the plenary and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of us. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is now the 580th day of the heroic resistance of the Ukrainian State to the full-scale aggression of the Russian Federation. The terrorist state continues to cynically launch massive rocket attacks on peaceful cities and villages, including the port infrastructure of Ukraine, endangering world food security and putting millions of people at risk of hunger. Our soldiers, despite their treacherous hostile actions, are moving forward, giving birth to the Father from the invaders, and day after day in bloodthirsty battles show exceptional courage and heroism. A low oblivion to all defenders and defenders of Ukraine for their daily self - sacrificing feats. Regrettably, a brutal war is taking the lives of our fellow countrymen. In these difficult times, another sad message came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Our colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine on the seventh, eighth, ninth calls, the active and experienced politician, the mecenate, the impeccable personality, the man who made a significant contribution to the development of the domestic legislation, Andri Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk. We express our sincere sympathy to our family and to our loved ones, Andrija Volodymyrovich. I ask, colleagues, a moment of silence to honor the memory of our colleague, the eternal memory of the heroes who gave their lives for Ukraine, the memory of all the victims of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Dear colleagues, Mr. President of the National Council, distinguished members of the delegations of the National Council of Austria, distinguished national deputies! Today we have the great honour to welcome in the Ukrainian Parliament my good colleague, a friend of Ukraine, Mr. President of the National Council of Austria Wolfgang Sobotka. [[Applause]] Since the beginning of Russia’s full - scale conquest, Austria has stood firm on Ukraine’s side, maintaining loyalty to international law, demonstrating solidarity and assistance in upholding the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our nation. I am warmly reminded, Mr. President, of my last visit to Austria. I remember the words of many Austrian politicians and government officials: "Austria is neutral in military terms, but not neutral politically." And that position is very important. Mr. President Sobotka, my dear colleague, I would like to thank you very much for your important contribution to Austria's positive attitude towards Ukraine and Ukraine, as well as for supporting important humanitarian projects. I know that the National Council of Austria, on your initiative, honored the moment of silence of the victims of Butchi, Irpine and other localities. You rightly pointed out that war crimes cannot be excused and justified in any way. Austria supported Ukraine in condemning and punishing Russia for committing war crimes. Thank you for your help in investigating Russian crimes and bringing those responsible to justice. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, allow me to express my deep gratitude to the people of Austria, the Austrian Parliament, the government, for their unwavering solidarity with Ukraine. Today we view your visit as a sign of strong support for Ukraine, which will contribute to the continuation of a sincere dialogue between our nations. Our peoples are the only ones in the fight for freedom, democracy and common European security. We are grateful that we have such a trusted friend in this fight. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, President Wolfgang Sobotka of the National Council of Austria is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-26-m0.u3	Mr. Golovo Stefanchuk, honourable members of the Supreme Council! Thank you so much for coming to this special meeting today. The honourable deputies of the Austrian Parliament present today, the distinguished guests! It's an honor to be here with you and talk to you today. You all know of long and close historical ties that link Austria and Ukraine. The Lviv that my delegation and I visited last night, last night, was the capital of the Habsburg Kingdom of Galicina and Volodymyr, and the Blacks played an important role in the cultural life of that time. Close historical connections can also be seen at the parliamentary level. More than a hundred years ago, many Ukrainian deputies from the crown lands of Galicina and Bukovina were members of the Austrian Parliament, most of whom were united into the so - called Routine Club and played an important role in Austrian politics at that time. However, the end of World War I and the fall of the Habsburg Empire divided our paths. However, until summer last year, Ukraine was officially granted EU accession status, which opened the way for it to Europe and the European Union. Mr. Head Stefanchuk, I still remember that last summer, and so only a few months after the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, you were a guest in the Austrian Parliament. You came to Vienna to inform Austrian parliamentarians about the terrible and difficult situation in your country. More than a year and a half have passed since then, but the situation in Ukraine has not improved. On February 24, last year, a full - scale and violent Russian aggression began. Since then, your country has suffered tremendous suffering. Since the beginning of the war, the position of Austria has been very clear: to condemn the illegal unjustifiable and unprovoked war of Russia against Ukraine at all political levels, to condemn the manifest violation of international law and to give full support to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Today, 19 months after the start of the war, I can assure you that Austria supports Ukraine with unconditional and unalterable solidarity. My visit to Ukraine with parliamentarians is part of a constant exchange that we would like to express a sign of solidarity. The Federal President of Austria, the Chancellor of Austria, and numerous representatives of the Austrian government and parliament also visited and continue to visit Kiev to express this solidarity. And this solidarity is also manifested in the relations between the parliaments of our two countries. For example, I personally participated in the Crimea Platform, which first took place in October of last year, at the level of Parliament Speakers in the capital of Croatia in Zagreb. Mr. Head, we'll see you again in a month at this year's parliamentary summit of the International Crimea Platform in Prague. In addition, committees in foreign affairs of our parliaments have held several virtual meetings on several occasions. A bilateral Austrian-Ukraine parliamentary group visited Kiev, Odessa and Mikolai. There are also close working contacts at the level of officials. Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, the continuation of the political, financial, economic and humanitarian support of Ukraine is an important priority for Austria. You all know that Austria is military neutral, as Mr. Head has already mentioned, but we are not politically neutral, and therefore we have taken a very clear and clear position in this war. Austria cannot and will not remain silent when it comes to violations of international law, the unprovoked war Russia is waging against Ukraine, and the unthinkable suffering this war brings. Austria has therefore made possible the adoption of EU military support measures through constructive support, as well as Austria's support for all sanctions, sanctions packages. And we want to make it clear to third countries that they won't allow them to bypass these sanctions, for example, by exporting dual-purpose goods to Russia. In August 1991, you, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, declared Ukraine independent. In December 1991, the people of Ukraine confirmed their desire to be independent with a majority of 90 votes. Such simultaneous voting shall not be ignored or relativized. We will be determined to resist all attempts to question or twist historical facts. The sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of Ukraine must be restored and guaranteed. No one but the Ukrainians will decide the political future of their country. The Ukrainians have made it clear that they see their own future in the European community. Austria will continue to support Ukraine on its way to EU accession. Ukraine’s political support from Austria is evident. But we are also helping your country in all possible ways, as far as our forces allow. Today, Austria has supported the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian population, which have been particularly affected by this war, financial and humanitarian aid to the sum of more than 152 million euros. As a net contributor to the budget of the European Union, Austria has also made significant indirect contributions through the European Union, which is Ukraine’s largest donor of humanitarian and financial support. To date, some 59 billion euros have been made available. On this occasion, I want to reiterate that we will continue to provide our humanitarian aid as much as we need. Support comes not only from the Republic of Austria but also from our lands, municipalities, and numerous private and nongovernmental organizations. There is also considerable support from the private sector, as more than 200 Austrian companies continue to operate in Ukraine despite the ongoing war, creating local jobs and developing economic potential. But Austria is not only helping Ukraine, we have also received some 100,000 Ukrainian displaced persons who have sought refuge in our country from the horrors of war. Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, Russia's attack on Ukraine is not just an attack on your country, it's also an attack on a world order based on rules. So the attack on Ukraine is not a problem that is confined to our continent. Russia’s repeated condemnation of the vast majority of countries at the UN General Assembly clearly proves this. She questioned the entire global security architecture. Thus, in this war, Ukraine not only protects itself and its existence as an independent state but also strives to uphold international law and defend our European values. I also emphasized this on a recent visit to the United States, to my colleagues in the United States Congress, and also to the International Affairs Committee, the Honorable Speaker Nancy Pelosi and UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. Later this day, we will visit Irpine and Butch -- two cities that have suffered tremendous suffering and have become a personification and symbol of terrible crimes and violence against the civilian population, as well as senseless destruction. Unwarranted suffering caused by innocent people robs us of the gift of the word. Therefore, we consider it necessary to investigate countless war crimes and possible crimes against humanity and to bring those responsible to justice. Austria supports the Ukrainian Peace formula, including the call for responsibility. International law and human rights must be protected and preserved; those who violate them must be held accountable. Austria also participates in the damage register, which is coordinated by the Council of Europe. Fixing all the evidence and lawsuits is the first step towards attracting Russia to responsibility for which. illegal acts of violence against Ukraine. In addition to the political consequences, Russian invasion of Ukraine also has a negative impact on world food security, energy security, and supply chains in various sectors. We can resist these threats only if we stick together. Austria therefore, inter alia, supports the EU's solidarity and is taking part in the "Zerno of Ukraine" initiative. At some point, but unfortunately, we all don't know when this war is going to end. Then it will be a matter for all of us to support the restoration of Ukraine. I can assure you that Austria, as a close friend of Ukraine, will be actively involved in these efforts. Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the Supreme Council! Austria will continue to support Ukraine and the Ukrainian people as much as necessary. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-26-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, let us once again thank the Honourable Mr. President of the National Council and the distinguished Austrian delegation for their participation in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and for Ukraine's support! [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, today we also welcome the national deputies of Ukraine. Valeria Alexandrovich Dubella, Fatherland. Hello. [[Applause]] Maxima Valentinovich Zariski, "Serve of the People". Hello. [[Applause]] And Petra Alexiyovich Dustenka, "European Solidarity." Hello. [[Applause]] We welcome the nominees and wish them good health, fruitful work, and Ukraine’s rapid victory. Ladies and gentlemen, I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. Together to victory! And glory to Ukraine!
