ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the ruling we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I point out that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in case of an event. in case, I'm sorry, the air alarm will be announced in the plenary session, and we all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to parliamentary tradition, let's begin our work with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 491st day of the brave struggle of the Ukrainian people against the full-scale armed aggression of the Russian Federation. More than a thousand-year history of Ukrainian Statehood shows that the summer in the history of Ukraine is a period of landmark events, the adoption of decisive state decisions: the baptism of the Kiev Russia, the proclamation of State sovereignty and independence, the adoption of the Constitution. We believe that with God’s help, the Defense Force of Ukraine and this summer will strengthen our foundation for complete victory over the aggressor. Praise to our soldiers, who now systematically step by step are allowing occupied territories from the oppression of the Russian state and its racist ideology. In which part of Ukraine we would not be, we remember that every day we live and work under a peaceful sky is paid at a cost. I suggest we bow our heads in minute silence to the defenders and defenders of Ukraine, who have laid their lives down as a sovereign, democratic, prosperous European Ukraine, and all the innocent victims of Russian aggression by the terrorist state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, June 28th, the Croatian Parliament voted in favour of the Declaration on the Recognition of the Holodomor of 1932-1933 by the genocide of the Ukrainian people. I recall that it was only during this month that the House of Deputies of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and the National Council of the Slovak Republic, on June 20, had decided to recognize the Holocaust as genocide. The truth always wins. I would like to thank our fellow parliamentarians for adopting such important decisions to restore historical justice. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to take your seats. Because in accordance with article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, before the opening of the plenary session, I propose a signal vote. I'll remind you that by keeping the sensor button pressed by the "Z" button and keeping these two buttons at the same time until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to take part in the signal vote? Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I ask everyone to take part in the signal vote. [[10:24:07]] For 229 Against five. It's been held down to two. It's all the same. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, I once again appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague of the Ukrainian National Deputy Alexander Rafkatovitch Abdullin, Fatherland. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Also, respected colleagues, another pleasant news, the national deputy Igor Kopitin had a daughter, and he became a longtime father. Let's say hello, too. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, welcome to all of you. We want strong health, strength, and victory as soon as possible. So let's get to the point. A list of questions previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Board is given to you. But what I want to remind you is that yesterday we completed our consideration of question 9165 and all the amendments that the colleagues suggested we put into account. Today we will have a number of amendments to confirm and then we will vote in favour of the law as a whole. I understand that there will be five amendments from Nina Petrovna of the South and one amendment from Julia Volodymyrna of Timoshenko, yes. Please, Nina Petrovna, your five amendments. The only thing I'm going to ask you to do is give us an amendment number so that we can find it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u2	First Amendment 290. Dear colleagues, I believe that the music accompanying a moment of silence or honoring the memory of the fallen should bring us back to work. Because last night's session ended with the fact that there were curses on the part of the national MPs on the network, so I insist that each of you perform your duties until the end of the Supreme Council meetings. Dear colleagues, 290 amendments. I want you to understand that this bill was aimed at adding items to the state budget in article 37 that related to the redistribution of the State Regional Development Fund for 2023. Since this topic has not gone down, I don't think it's necessary to accept this amendment at all now, because in additions 2 billion, which are actually redirected to the Ministry of Defence as the chief supervisor, are solving the problem this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u3	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Dear colleagues, once again, these are amendments that are considered by the committee. I will now give the floor to the committee's representative, but Nina Petrovna will put them on the stand. So let me ask you, we have more important things to do than just talk about, take your seats. Please report. 290 Amendment to Podlasa. I'm right, right, Nina Petrovne?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, this amendment is included, it refers to the order of the distribution of funds. That is, the committee insists on leaving it in such an order, that is, it corresponds to the substance of the bill. And I want to point out the important thing Nina Petrovna said is that it doesn't really matter how the distribution is going to go. Because we recommend sending these billions to our military, to buy weapons, that is, to the U.S.S.A. So thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. 290 revisions. Please take your seats. Please take your seats. 290 amendment by Podlasi Roxolana Andrijavni, Nina Petrovna puts this, she's the committee included, Nina Petrovna puts this amendment to confirm, you've heard the argument from both sides. I'm putting 290 amendments on confirmation. Please vote. [[10:28:55]] For 226 Decision taken. Please make the next amendment, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u6	Remember this moment, 309 revisions. The person standing in the rostrum just tricked you, because all the amendments I'm making for confirmation don't apply to 2 billion redistribution of funds, hear that. This authority is making for the future, for 2024, a new order of distribution of the DFRD in percentages, proportions, goals, tasks. Please don't buy these provocations, you're a parliament, we have to control it. It's okay if we can look at this next year, if we need to. Have a conscience; do not support these adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u7	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u8	Dear Nina Petrovna, it's not enough, I think it's important to say someone's lying. Because I've noticed that these funds are going to the U.S.S.S., 2 billion, and order and distribution don't apply to how these funds are going to the U.S.S. So personally, I don't see any manipulation here, and the way it says in the bill, I've given a clear answer to the argument about what we're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, 309 revision of the authorship of the Podlasji Roxolana Andrijavni. Nina Petrovna Jujanina makes this amendment, which is considered by the confirmation committee, to be the decision of the committee. Dear colleagues, take your seats. I'm putting 309 amendments to confirm, please vote. [[10:30:50]] For 226 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's see the factions. Please, Nina Petrovna, what's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u10	Turn on the microphone to start. 323 revisions. Dear colleagues, you're funny, I'm reading the essence of amendment 323. Investment programmes and regional development projects implemented at least 10 per cent of the DFRD and at least 50 per cent for the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol and the budgets of the urban territorial communities. Where's 2 billion? And the previous author or representative from the rostrum, you're just making an irreparable mistake right now because you're lying, you're lying.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u11	I'd like to ask a little bit, let's lower the degree and respect each other. Dear colleagues, look, if you think that someone is yelling louder, there will be more truth, that's not true. Please take the seat of the committee. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u12	Dear Nina Petrovna, look here, this is about the distribution of funds between the district centers. And what we're talking about here is that for small cities and small OTGs, participation in investment projects and programs should be at least 10 percent, and for large cities like Kharkiv, Kyiv, Dnipro or others, at least 50 percent. What is the purpose of this? To protect small cities and ODGs in a way that allows them to implement their projects and investment programs. Everyone seems to understand that. And there's no manipulation here, because we're helping small cities and OTG implement.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, 323 amendments, the authorship of the National MP Bezgin, is taken into account by the committee editorially. National MP Yuzanin puts such a decision on the committee for confirmation. So I'm going to put 323 amendments in the editorial form where it's edited for confirmation. Please vote. [[10:33:53]] For 226 Decision taken. Stability is a sign of class. Dear colleagues, Nina Petrovna, what number is next, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u14	Amendment 346. Dear colleagues, everything that the tribune representative says applies to 2024. That doesn't apply in any way to 2 billion. Let's live to 2023, figure out what we have with regional budgets and investment programs. Remember, this bill has long been in the Supreme Council, and it was necessary once. But, colleagues, now you've been decided to use this new distribution, and you can ask for silence, I can't even hear myself! To make this distribution. Mr. Stefanchuk, is it normal to hear nothing in the front room?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u15	It's not normal for you to scream in the back, and in the front, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u16	Yeah, what are you talking about? That's what I'm talking about. For this distribution, it will now be proposed for 2024. So once again, let's live to be the 23rd, and then we'll make that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u17	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u18	Nina Petrovna, this bill was prepared to be adopted at the right time and the DFRD funds were used in 2023. Indeed, part of these parts in article 37 can be taken into account by the Cabinet of Ministers when the draft budget for the year 2024 is presented. But your comments essentially refer to the text of the bill that we are now adopting. From the point of view of this bill, these paragraphs are prescribed and are as balanced as possible, and they correspond to the structure of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 346 amendments to the authorship of the national deputy of Podlasa are considered by the committee. National MP Yuzanin puts such a decision on the committee for confirmation. You've heard the position of the Southern and the position of the committee. I'm putting 346 amendments for confirmation. I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[10:36:33]] For 224 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u20	442 revisions. You said the right thing to do, the right thing to do, the 24th year budget, and "Dia" will do, and I'm sorry about the tautology and everything you want. And now there's absolutely no need for these amendments, because you're taking away the Supreme Council of Control and the possibility of participation, because there's going to be a lot of change in a year and we don't know what our regions are going to be in. We're actually living one day right now, and you want to accept the 2024 standard. Please pay particular attention to this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u21	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, this amendment refers to the need for the Cabinet of Ministers to bring their legal instruments to the structure and purpose of the bill. I mean, it's a simple, understandable idea, yes, which recommends that the Cabinet of Ministers there bring their legal acts to what we have adopted in the bill. Now the purpose of the bill has changed. We're sending these funds to our U.S.S.A. to buy weapons, so what we're doing right now is we're just wasting time because we actually need to vote on a bill to get our U.S.S.A. to get this money as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, 442 amendments to the authorship of the National MP Bezgin and Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenka She's a committee member. Nina Petrovna asks for this decision to be confirmed. I ask you to vote, 442 amendments, please. [[10:38:47]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I understand, another amendment. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, this is 455 revisions, bringing two billion into the army together, and the 13th paragraph there predicted that for 2024 there would be a unique procedure in the paws, when the money of the State Regional Development Fund would be distributed in the region through the "Dia" program and people would vote where to issue it through the "Dia" program. I just want to say that we're all supporting the "Dia" program. But it's a significant discrimination against some people who don't use it. This would mean that some people won't take part in this distribution, and it's all going to turn, the distribution of government money, into piazza. So I urge you not to vote for this law now and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u25	Julia Volodymyrna, I understand that we can't make part of the amendment. Can we not put it on then? Julia Volodymyrna, I can't take more time. Please, Julia Volodymyrna, what else did you want? You want to set it up, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u26	I can't put it because there's 2 billion in the army. But I'm asking everyone not to vote, and tomorrow I'll put it in a different line.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u27	Thank you. The position is clear. Thank you for the design, Julia Volodymyr. Let's move on to making a decision. No one's making any more amendments, we're voting for the law. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023 on the use of the funds of the State Fund for Regional Development (Registration No. 9165). Ready to vote? I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[10:41:21]] For 238. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. Please take a break from two factions and replace it with a performance. Who's it gonna be? From the faction of European Solidarity and Voice, do I understand? Princess Santa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished national MPs, during the days our information space was shaken by another Russian fake, a fake of Russian propaganda about our religious situation. This time, they lied that the holy powers are allegedly moving from Kiev to Europe, and that our authority has settled with UNESCO in this matter. The minister of culture responded to this Russian lie by stating that Lavra needs to be protected from the "Russian world" and, quote, "Retiredly check to see if all our Ukrainian sacral relics are on the ground." The minister was, of course, a cruel jester. According to public opinion polls, 80 percent of Ukrainians want to ban the activity of the Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine. They all understand that the RPC is not a church, but an instrument of Russian imperial politics in the religious field and a means of conquest. The RPC structures in Ukraine are occupied by collaborators who own Russian passports. You yourself know that the Russian two-headed is also the head of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate, who himself directly confessed that he is a Russian not only by passport but also by spirit. It seemed that on December 1, last year, these simple truths were understood by our authority. A special session of the National Security and Defence Council took place on this subject, but as you can see, the mountain gave birth to a mouse. The government prepared Bill 8371, which is conceptually wrong because it will save the Ukrainian state. Involves the Ukrainian state in an endless marathon of court hearings. Actually, that's what happened with the Kiev laurel, where the monastery of the Moscow Church still feels free, and as you can see, it's not going to be left behind. Instead, the Ukrainians were invited to enjoy serving in one of the laurel temples behind Gehtman John Mazepa. This is our great achievement that in the 32nd year of our independence, in the 10th year of the war of Ukraine against Russia, in the second year of a full-scale invasion of the country, we were able to mention the Gehtman Mazep in our sanctuary! This is the achievement of the Ukrainian State in the sense of our authority. What is the reason for such abuse on all of us? The fact that "Russian peace" has not disappeared from this hall, nor from our own cabinets, despite the genocide of our people, on the thousands of deaths on the front and back, for millions of destroyed Ukrainian fates. Government Bill 8371 is so toothless that it was actually approved even by the Moscow Church after meeting with the Supreme Council. However, the faction of the Party of Government of the "Serves of the People" did not have enough deputies to vote for it, even for this short draft in the first reading. It is time to end this long - standing disgrace and ban the work of the Moscow Church under Project 8221, which is written on the basis of the interests of national security and according to the Bible.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. No, it won't. 9111: Draft Amendment Act. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Simplification of the Procedure for Importation, Accounting and Distribution of Humanitarian Aid (Registration No. 9111). Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, take your seats. Dear colleagues, we've already entered into the bill. Irina Volodymyrna, unfortunately, has entered. Please, Your Honor, I'm making an offer, I'm proposing to include this issue, 9111, in the agenda of the session. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:46:55]] For 271 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have agreed to discuss it at the Conciliation Council, so please two in favor, two in favour, and we will vote against it. Please sign up: two in, two in. Stop, one second. Dear colleagues, take your seats. I'm sorry, I still want to put this issue under review by a reduced procedure until we have taken any procedural action. I would like to vote in favour of this issue in short notice. [[10:47:43]] For 233 Decision taken. Now let's write two in, two in, two in. Please, Your Honor. Please, Mikhailo Leontijovich Bondar, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u30	Please, Sophia Fedini.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u31	Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u32	"European solidarity" clearly believes that all simplifications of procedures and transparency of procedures for receiving humanitarian assistance and distribution must be maintained, and that is long overdue. But today, speaking of this bill, which has been properly drafted enough, I would like to raise a different question and ask the attention of all the deputies, especially those who have relations with Zaporozhye, Lviv, Chernigiv, Kyiv regions, where there have been cases of violent abuse of power and the dissolution of humanitarian aid in warehouses that were run by military administrations. And I remind you that military administrations are not local self-governance, and this is a power vertical, and in particular, it appoints the president's head, but it controls the humanitarian assistance of the president's head, because he is responsible. Do we see at least one case that leads to the road? Do we see criminal cases and the responsibility of those involved in the theft of millions, millions, of them? Nothing. And some of the "miracles" from Zaporozhye are also awarded state awards after their involvement in theft has been exposed. But I would also like to draw attention to the compound in the village of Killin in Lviv, where in the henhouse, with the help of the military administration, it seems, was stolen not just by a humanitarian woman, but by things that were made to order by the Ministry of Defence even in 2023. So I would very much like us not to say right now that Ukraine is a young man, its partners are great and everything helps, but that the law enforcement authorities will finally be called upon to take responsibility of their own, who are in power, not to pursue volunteers, the number of cases that unfortunately are growing. Let's work for the army and win, not your pockets.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u33	Please, Roman Pavlovich Grishtuk, faction of the political party "Serve of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the Act on Humanitarian Aid was written in 99th year, and, you know, it's completely out of harmony with the spirit and the demands of time, and we realized that during a full-scale invasion. So far, we have standards that are, in principle, unrealistic. Therefore, according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, Galina Trelyakowa and I, on the basis of the Committee of Social Policy, led a working group to prepare changes to this law. The working group included representatives of both ministries and volunteer organizations. This law is just a point of change that we need to make right now, and we have to write the new Humanitarian Aid Act in the first place, and now it's committee-based development. What's going on The main goal is to simplify the lives of volunteer charities, to leave the declaratory principle of the introduction of humanitarian aid for a period of war, to simplify the reporting that is prescribed in the law in such a way that it is unrealistic to carry out. Also, introduce an electronic register of beneficiaries of humanitarian aid so that, first, we can understand clearly who, how much money, the second, so that the same charitable and public organizations can be comfortable with this. We also compare transportation with humanitarian aid, which is provided not only to military forces but also directly to military personnel during wartime. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, before the second reading, we will be working with a large working group. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u35	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u36	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor. Of course, anything that contributes to the provision of humanitarian assistance to the victims and to our military personnel should be supported, and all procedures should be simplified as much as possible, and this law contributes to this. But transparency and responsibility for the distribution of humanitarian aid must be ensured. And our colleagues were absolutely right to say that there can be no humanities hidden in the actual scale supply of Louis Vuitton and others. We need to do our utmost today to help our military and those who have suffered from combat and not to allow themselves to be abused and profited from it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u37	Please, the word is given to Puzichuku Andriy Viktorovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, and after that we will vote. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. Please don't. And invite the people's deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u38	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the presidency, the people's deputies, I am most grateful to the authors of this bill because it is actually born with the problems themselves. And I would also like to join the words of thanks to the members of the TSC, the colleagues of Parliament who have raised this subject at a national level. In the Committee on Social Policy for the Protection of Veterans, work really is now going on after the round table, where volunteers were invited, representatives of the central executive authorities. What about simplifying the lives of volunteers and preventing the abuse of humanitarian aid? And indeed, here the colleagues mentioned the cases, and Zaporozhye, Chernigov and Lvova, where in one of the articles a newly created or long-created baby was discovered by citizens who cared about 60 wagons of humanitarian aid, where even terminated things, as well as baby food, were found. And it turns out that neither those who own the curtain nor those who own it have. It's a disgrace to the law enforcement agencies. We demand that the guilty be established. Because there are owners of these warehouses and there are transports that have been transported. This disgraces the work of volunteer, public organizations that today do great things for the state, for the citizens. And I'm sure we're on the Committee of Social Policy for second reading, taking into account all the suggestions that are and that will be worked out. And to do that, we invite all the national MPs, representatives of public organizations, central executive bodies. And we ask the Ministry of Social Policy to get the electronic aid register to work. We vote "yes" and we take all the suggestions into second reading. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Ah, I'm going to meet Aresonkov, aren't I? Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, I would like to remind you that the trust MPs and their members were actively involved in the drafting of this bill, and, importantly, they were not only working in the theoretical field, so to speak. Members of the group and others of our fellow MPs went to places where the centres were focused on the provision and distribution of humanitarian aid, including the Committee on Law Enforcement had been working in border areas since the early days. They carefully and carefully studied all aspects of the delivery of humanitarian goods to Ukraine and distributed them further. So this is an example of the systematic work of the MPs and those who created the bill. I think the result should be extremely positive. The Trust MPs will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u41	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, we have concluded a discussion of this very important bill. I ask the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain legislative acts to simplify the import, accounting and distribution of humanitarian aid. — Registration No. 9111. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[10:57:34]] For-286 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, come on, I'm proposing that we cut in half the preparation period for the second reading so that we can do this, but the amendments are ready. I propose to shorten the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 9111. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:58:08]] For 258. Decision taken. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for these three laws concerning the military, to entrust the Head of the Supreme Council with signing and directing the President to sign immediately. These are the bills that we voted 9342 yesterday, 9238 on the right wheel and 9165 on the right wheel, which we just voted on. There is such an offer, Arthur Volodymyrovich. One at a time? I made an offer and put it to the vote. Request for immediate signature of Bills 9342, 9238, 9165 adopted by the Supreme Council as a whole. Please vote. [[10:59:15]] For 271 Decision taken. Colleagues, we, too, agreed yesterday at Conciliation, to vote in favour of the President of Ukraine now three questions regarding the assignment of the names Hero of Ukraine. So concentrate, please, and we will now vote on them. Request for a group of national deputies (Timoshenko, Yvchenka, and others) 9 MPs) to the President of Ukraine on the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine to the 28th individual Mechanized Brigade of the Knights of the Winter Walk to Oleg Anatoliyovich. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on a proposal for previous support for a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:00:16]] For-286 Decision taken. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:00:46]] For 289 Decision taken. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. The request by Vladimir Kredenko to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of Kwaskov Evgen Igorovich the name Hero of Ukraine (after death). In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on a proposal for previous support for a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:01:24]] For 284 Decision taken. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:01:49]] For 284 Decision taken. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Request by Dmitr Kostuk to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of a commanding officer of the mechanized battalion of the 30th Special Mechanized Brigade of Prince Constantine's Operational Command of the North Army of the U.S. Armed Forces of Ukraine, Chief Sergeant Marach Kirill Sergiyyovitch called Hero of Ukraine (mortal). In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on a proposal for previous support for a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:02:38]] For 285 Decision taken. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:03:05]] For 287 Decision taken. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u43	Please, Irina Volodymyr, out of procedure, just out of procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u44	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, as you know now in Ukraine there is only one information policy and I inform you that the faction "European Solidarity" takes the example of "The One Marathon," which informed you yesterday about Parliament's meeting literally on a live basis. That's why today, Alexi Hotcharenko, and we all don't see any warnings to inform about Parliament's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, such a warning is the decree of the Supreme Council, which we adopted in this room at the beginning of the ninth session and which clearly determines the order and parameters of the activity. But once again, you act as you do. You act in violation of the decree, it is your political conscience and your political responsibility. No one tolerates that. The Supreme Council's ruling is, I'm very much proposing to everyone, regardless of who's keeping it. I said again, I've expressed my position on everyone. All words, if anyone does not know, can be seen in the dictionary, meaning no exception, everyone. Thank you. Dear colleagues, 0205 is the draft law on the withdrawal from the Agreement on the formation of a single economic space. Look, I'm offering to consider this with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:04:58]] For 255 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Deputy Minister of Economy of Ukraine, Katko Taras Andryovich. Please, Taras Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u46	Yes, good afternoon! You can really do it without discussion, because it's a bill that's been tabled in our systematic work by the government to get out of an international legal base within the former Soviet Union. And according to the Agreement on the Forming of the Single Economic Space, it was one of the initial political projects that was being implemented at the beginning of the zero Russian Federation, which was not the practical meaning of this agreement, and it carried it from the very beginning. It's only a political direction to ensure the integration of the former states of the Soviet Union with the Russian Federation. Fortunately, this story was not implemented, yet this agreement was still formally valid. Accordingly, we have proposed to formally suspend and withdraw this agreement, a project designed to legally record this fact. Accordingly, I would like to support the draft law on the exit of the Single Economic Space Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u47	Thank you. Please take your place. Network Alexander Alexandrovich, what is the position of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, at its meeting, discussed the draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine on the withdrawal of the Single Economic Space Agreement and recommended that it be accepted as a basis and generally taking into account technical legal rights. The termination of the Treaty was caused by Russia’s military aggression against Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, Belarus’s involvement in the illegal use of force against Ukraine, which, in turn, contradicts the provisions of the Agreement, particularly in the confirmation of the friendly relations that bind nations and nations, seeking to ensure their prosperity, based on the principles and norms of international law, the end of the quotation. In an explanatory note to the draft law signed by First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine Yulia Sviridenko notes that the implementation of the law will not require additional costs from state or local budgets. So please support the decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation and adopt the draft Ukrainian law on the withdrawal from the Agreement on the Forming of a Single Economic Space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss this issue. Please, Grigory Mikhailovich Nemira, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u50	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mr. Head, your fellow national deputies, well, think about how many months the war has been going on, this deal was signed in Yalta in 2003, by the way -- 20 years, and it's only now that Parliament is deciding to get out of this agreement. Mr. Head, I've already told you in this room that as of today we have, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, still have about 300 treaties, bilateral agreements with the Russian Federation. The Supreme Council denounces, withdraws from these covenants at about the rate of five contracts a month. If you count how long it will take the Ukrainian Parliament to get out of these bilateral agreements with the aggressor country, it will be 5 years. It'll take about three years to get out of all the SND agreements, two years to get out of Belarus. That's why I'm talking again, Mr. Head. Please send the results of the discussion to the head of the government with a strong request to prepare comprehensive proposals for the withdrawal of all the agreements that we are now being merged with the aggressor country. The same applies to SND. "Paternity" supports this bill today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u52	Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to give the word to the Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u53	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u54	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Well, no one has any doubt that we have to get out of all these agreements. What they're still hanging around is, of course, the question of what we're doing, that we need to break it all up as soon as possible. But let's not talk about Russia's only economic space, Belarus, but let's talk a little bit more in Parliament about the confiscation of the Russian Federation's assets and the Lukashenko's entire gang in Belarus, and about sending all this stuff to Ukraine, for Ukraine, for reconstruction. We see today that this process seems to be going, but it's going very, very slowly. And we need to speed it up. And we just have to work at other speeds with that. This is the task that stands before us today. We see these shameful examples of how Abramovich sells his Chelsea, and still with these billions, he said at first, this is Ukraine, now, so Ukraine doesn't want to give, does it want to give, or doesn't it want to give? How many more of those Abramovichs, the minions that this money is trying to find now, in 16 months, these lasagnas, these holes that will get rid of Western jurisdiction, save their assets, millions, billions, their villas, their football clubs and everything? There must be a very serious work with you, the Ukrainian Parliament with the parliaments of every country where this money is. All the countries of the European Union, Canada, the United States, Japan, Australia, New Zealand -- we have to be partners, we have to work all the time. We constantly need a working group that will work with them to tackle these issues. We're going to take away from all of this gang everything they have in favor of Ukraine. They have to be reckoned for what they've done.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u55	Please, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u56	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We support this bill on the exit from the Single Economic Space Agreement with the aggressor countries and we support the referral of our colleagues to the Cabinet of Ministers to activate the government's actions upon withdrawal from all the agreements that today unite us with the aggressor country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, final speech, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov, group "Trust". Then we go to the vote. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u58	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Trust MPs want to pay attention to the next moment. Today, the speeches of our colleagues from all factions raise extremely important issues that concern some of our government's inefficient activities: the failure of individual ministries of profile, such as the foreign ministries, where they cannot or cannot prepare a comprehensive list of issues that we can vote on and get out of many treaties. Other facts were called. And I have a question, why is this happening? Perhaps because we have lost parliamentary control, which should be in Ukrainian law? I would like to remind you that the special temporary or special commissions that have recently been established at the level of the Supreme Council have proved their effectiveness. That is, parliamentary control must be. And let's not pay any attention to the continuing humiliation as the institutions of the Supreme Council. And, dear fellows, I am addressing you, let's demand respect for us as an organ, and according to each committee and the entire Supreme Council, we will be conducting effective activities in the form of controlling the work of the Ukrainian government. Then the results will be improved accordingly, including in this direction that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion, we are moving on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft law on the withdrawal of the Single Economic Space Agreement (Registration No. 0205). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:15:57]] For 261 Decision taken. From the procedure? Please, Motovilover.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u60	I ask you to change the procedure for reviewing the laws of the day’s session and to remove from the order of the day Law 8392 in connection with the additional consultations needed to amend the law for the second reading. I ask you to put this question to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u61	Andrew! Andrew Viktorovich, I understand correctly, the next Bill 8392, amend? When should we set up? Do you really want to take it off or go to the end? As a matter of fact, take off today's review. Dear colleagues, there's a proposal: the next bill we were going to consider, 8392, to remove today from the agenda of our sitting. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:17:22]] For 275 Decision taken. Then there's Bill 9346 and there's an alternative Bill 9346-1. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to ensure predictability of fiscal policy and increase debt sustainability. I propose to include Bills 9346 and 9346-1 in the agenda of the day. Please vote. [[11:18:04]] For 264 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:18:27]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of Ukraine's First Deputy Minister of Finance, Denis Valeriovich Ulutin. Please, Denise Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u62	Good afternoon! Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable members of the people, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to ensure the predictability of budgetary policy and to strengthen debt sustainability is proposed to amend a number of provisions of the Ukrainian Budget Code in order to fulfil the government's obligations set out in the IMF Memorandum on Economic and Financial Policy of March 24, 23. In particular, the project proposes to restore the codex rules that have been stopped in connection with the introduction of military status, namely the development and submission of a three - year budget declaration for approval by Parliament and the State Debt Management Strategy. We are restoring these requirements to the project, particularly that the Ministry of Finance should develop and submit a three-year budget declaration and approved a State Debt Management Strategy. The draft amendment to the State budget could also be considered in the Supreme Council if a relevant conclusion was reached by Minfin on the possibility of financial provision during the current medium-term budget period. We're not restricting the possibility of making any changes, we're just talking about the fact that in concluding, Minfin has to make calculations and financial provision. Also, since the 23rd year, there will be a comprehensive list of cases where changes to the State Budget Act can be made. However, for the security and defence sectors, there is still room for changes to the state budget in case of emergency. In addition, in 2023-2028, requirements for the marginality of the granting of State guarantees were established. On the basis of government decisions, this will be no more than 3 percent. This is a common standard for this type of guaranteed payment. And on the basis of international agreements, it will be determined accordingly in the budget for the corresponding budget year. In view of the importance of the project, please support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u63	Thank you, Denise Valeriovich. The head of the Committee’s Committee on Budget Affairs, Kubbit Yuri Mihajlovich, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u64	Honourable Ruslane Alexiyovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Budget Affairs has considered a government bill 9346 on amending the Code of Budgets and an alternative bill 9346-1. These bills are aimed at fulfilling the commitments set out in the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund on restoring and strengthening the specific rules of the Budget Code to ensure the predictability of budgetary policy, budgetary balance and debt sustainability. The adoption of such a legislative initiative, a colleague, will facilitate Ukraine's lending of more than $15 billion from the International Monetary Fund to the United States under the relevant extended funding programme, as well as the mobilization of large-scale credit funding from international donors and partners in Ukraine. Unlike the Government Bill, alternative Bill 9346-1 contains no amendments to the Law on the State Budget for 2023 and is in line with the regulatory requirements, such as article 160 of the Supreme Council Rules and article 52 of the Budget Code, no changes to the State budget may be made to the Budget Code or other legislative acts. In general, the committee concludes with detailed information on drafts taking into account their findings. On the basis of the Committee's consideration of the matter, the Committee adopted the following decision: Bills 9346 and 9346-1 to be included in the agenda of the day session. As a result of the first reading of these bills, Bill 9346-1 provides the basis for the adoption and commission of the committee to finalize the draft bill for the second reading, taking into account amendments and proposals by the legislators, by shortening the deadline for the submission of such amendments and proposals by half. I'd like your support, colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss this bill. Please, Signora Oleg Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u66	Please pass the words to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u67	Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u68	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, an important question. In fact, we must finally move on to some strategic approach. But I have a question. Why do we think about this strategy of government debt management only for IMF tips, and only for the list signed between the government, the NBA and the IMF? I have a question. Where is the economic policy of the state? I have a question. Why our government, by the way, isn't this the way. Mr. Deputy Minister, I'm asking you to hand over the government, we're waiting for the government in the Council, we want an hour of questions to the government. Colleagues, do you want to see our officials? Do you want to ask questions? Do you want to hear what the state lives on? Let's finally do this. Let's re-establish "the hour of questions to the government." Let's get the government to develop an economic policy strategy during these trials, during the war. Yes, war. Yes, it's very difficult. Yeah, we have to run the country every day, it's not easy. But the strategy still has to be what sectors we support, what we do, where we go. We don't know anything. Our government's economic policy is like a black cat in a dark room, especially when it's gone, it's impossible to find. We don't have an economic strategy, we don't have a management strategy, and we still have an energy strategy, a government debt strategy, a branch strategy, a structural reform strategy. War is not a barrier to reform, but we have to work now. So, guys, I'm talking to you all, let's ask our government to work, let's call them here and work with them every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u69	Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, this bill that we are finally imposing restrictions on government debt. And it's the right bill, no matter what we're looking at in the first reading, because the size of government debt is, unfortunately, increasing every day. We're forced to take the money to fund all the state expenditures to the non-military. Military expenses are financed by our taxes. But in order to pay on time for pensions and social payments, to support the state and to keep the state working, unfortunately, we need to take loans and grants. But I want to point out to you that as a faction we ask the Minister of Finance and the government to come and say, at the moment, what debt we have, how much credit we have, how much grants we have, how much credit we have so far to our gross domestic product, so it's not a surprise to Ukrainian citizens when we win and it turns out that we have 200 percent of the debt we have to our economy that we just can't pay back. So let's start this discussion with this bill. We support this bill, but we ask for more information and ask the government to report on the financial situation that is now in the state, how much credit has been received, and how much, in fact, we will have. How many years and what interest rates we're going to pay for the next many years. And what's the plan for getting loans, even if for 2023, for 2024, and maybe for 2025, it would be good. It's good to re-establish a 3-year accounting program so that we can understand what's waiting for us for three years. Thank you, we support the law, but we will work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u71	Then Kirilenko, I understand, gives the word Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u72	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Indeed, honourable colleagues, supporters of the bill clearly say that our IMF creditors and other financial structures require us, from the session room, to adopt this bill to become law. Is it true? I just want to say that there's a good saying, "You don't know how to do it, do it by law." We open the Basic Law to the Constitution of Ukraine, and it clearly prescribes all powers, government, parliamentary authority, and all other subjects of authority. Thus, it cannot be that the parliamentary body that is in the government, in one way or another, makes decisions or restricts the national MPs of Ukraine, cannot teach the egg to the hen. And in the bill, Ukrainian national MPs are limited to the right to make changes to the budget and become a specific dependence on the Ministry of Finance. Dear colleagues, let's not ruin the institution, more than that, the highest legislative body in Ukraine. Many examples are found in the history of Ukraine when authority is taken from local authorities, and others are transferred to central authorities. If we do this consistently and systematically, why do we need democracy? Then why do we have to choose? Then why do we even need representative bodies? Let's give the bee to one ruler and everything, and let them rule, but will people win? The Fatherland faction specifically warns against such voting, and if this bill is passed, we will apply. We don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u73	Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, the Platform for Life and Peace group. Dear colleagues, after which we will proceed to the vote. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, regarding increased debt sustainability, we certainly support a number of other derivatives. I listened very carefully to the discussion, our colleague from the Voice faction appealed to what parameters I would try to answer. Because all of this data is open, it's published by the Minfin website, and it's also on the website of the relevant State Budget Act. And look, the problem is not even the amount of government debt we have, it's $124 billion, but it's the fact that the inadequate debt policy of Kabminu has led to such a trend that we have a debt ratio increased since September 1, 2019, when we came in, more than half, by almost 54 percent or by 43 billion dollars out of 124. Is that a lot? That's a lot. Yes, we have a military situation today, it's been introduced, and these figures have increased, but we have a state-guaranteed debt by February 22, 2022, which is why inadequate debt policy has to be overcome. As far as agreeing on the ceiling of the sovereign and sovereign debt, I believe that this should be in the Ukrainian Parliament. Because that's what this trend is all about. Now on the budget, just as much as we're borrowing, 2.2 trillion dollars we're borrowing, that's 1.4 trillion dollars in revenue this year and 2.1 trillion dollars in expenses. So we have more than all of the revenue in the budget than we have in the past. Well, it's a budget statement. Look, I said that a year and a half ago, we have a budget statement, a macroeconomic forecast, it doesn't meet the challenges of the time that we have today. Any of you on the Internet can come and see the budget declaration of July 15, 2021. We've already reviewed the GDP growth rate, the holding debt, and so on. Therefore, the macro-prediction, the new budget declaration, and then the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have you all spoken? I'm asking you to take your seats. Let's move on to the decision on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u76	Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the Predictability of Budget Policy and the Strengthening of Debt Stability (registration No. 9346-1). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:33:33]] For 233 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we cut the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 9346-1. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:34:04]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. We'll be 14 days. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next Bill 8287. We've only agreed on three minutes of Nina Petrovn Yuzanin and we're voting. Three minutes and we vote. Please, Eugene. No, not from Nina Petrovna's place, it's a second reading. It's a second reading, my friends. You also came yesterday because there was no man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u78	I understand your "love" in your paws. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u79	Unlimited, Nina Petrovna, to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u80	It's boundless. Dear colleagues, the electronic administration systems are really called upon to increase the efficiency of tax control. And unfortunately, we see such a failed example with the VAT administration system, blocking tax receipts, but we don't seem to see another way out. That's why we're already running a fuel system that doesn't actually work, and now we're offering it when we're calculating and moving goods. So the electronic excise stamp that is now being offered or becoming a panacea of tobacco market abuse, in the shadow of now more than 20 percent, or in the alcohol market, in the shadow of over 40 percent, is a very big question. I have to look again at this disgraceful and permanent practice of Parliament, that in the first reading we're looking at unprepared, raw draft laws. It was 8287 and 8286, and then we make one of them by spending time in Parliament for another, and we're reprocessing everything by 90 percent. How long can this go on? And in fact, the e-mark is a different one, actually, the know-how of Ukraine, because it starts with an e, and it's probably your pyar-walk, and in most European countries, there's a normal mark as a protection element from counterfeits, and the graphic codes are carried on a packet to control the traceability of goods, and it's a confirmation for the consumer of the origin of the product. I have a question: does this bill correspond to the EU Directive? Yes and no. Because the introduction of an electronic directive control system is only necessary for tobacco products. We also want to introduce it for alcoholic beverages. And obviously, and this is clearly reflected in the draft law, this is going to increase the cost for manufacturers to buy equipment for putting and scanning codes on the stamp. And for the development of extra software, without it, this system doesn't work. Does this have a positive effect on the child’s market? Perhaps not. Because the project developers and even the taxpayers believe that the electronic system will have a positive effect. Business, manufacturers, importers, real estate don't see the positive effects of the project. Because once again it only applies to whites and cheeses and those in the shadows that were not under control and remain beyond that control. And in this bill, there's a huge amount of legislation that can completely change even what we've been able to prescribe and agree with the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, we've concluded this discussion, we're moving on to a decision, we're asking you to take a seat. I propose to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical legal amendments, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and certain other laws in relation to the introduction of electronic surveillance of the circulation of alcoholic beverages, tobacco products and liquids used in electronic cigarettes (registration No. 8287). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:38:44]] For 252 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! Let's see the factions. The next 9042, 9042-1 is the draft Law on the Fundamentals of Child Welfare, which has been affected by the full-scale armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. I'm proposing to include Bills 9042, 9042-1 in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. We agreed to make a decision on them without discussion, but we need to put them into the agenda. Please vote. [[11:39:34]] For 285 Decision taken. I propose to adopt the draft Law on the Fundamentals of Child Welfare, which has been affected by the full-scale armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine (registration number 9042-1), in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:40:10]] For 279 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill 0207, he's in discussion, and the rest, who will follow him, two, I think, without discussion. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, on the other hand, on Ukraine's participation in the Single Market programme of the European Union (2021-2027). I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:40:52]] For 245 Decision taken. Please, colleagues, let's write this down: two for, two for, and no, to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u82	Ustinova, Voice. Klimenko? Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, this is one of the many bills and agreements signed by Ukraine for the cooperation and cooperation of small and medium-sized businesses with the European Union and other countries. It's the right story, we'll support it. But I want to tell you that Ukraine, because it does not fully implement these agreements in Ukraine, does not teach businesses in Ukraine, small and medium-sized businesses to use these programs. As a result, we as a country pay large membership fees: this membership fee, which we now have to pay under this agreement, is 4.5 million dollars. And that's, I think, with a discount, because it's usually between $200,000 and half a million for these programs from the country. Thus, in order for our entrepreneurs to receive grants, loans, training and competitive advantages under such contracts, they need to be taught how to use such programs. To do that, the government has to create a separate unit, I don't know, maybe a separate project office, where it will teach our small, medium-sized business to be competitive, to get loans and grants on these multi-billion-dollar European credit and grant programs. In another way, we pay membership fees as a country, as taxpayers for what we can't use, for where we're not competitive and where we don't get anything. So we pay absolutely nothing, I'd say. I therefore urge the government not only to bring us such agreements for ratification and maintenance, but also to create offices for the implementation of such agreements and to teach them. We're going to control this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u84	Thank you, Julia Leonidivna. Please, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, it is clear that "European Solidarity" will support the ratification of this bill and the possibility of Ukraine joining another instrument of interaction with the European Union. But I agree that, unfortunately, the government is not doing any explanatory work today, and those programs that were started for learning, for information, back in the 18th year, unfortunately, in the 20th year, the government was shut down. So this involves really serious work that would provide knowledge and opportunities for our medium and small entrepreneurs to make effective use of available additional tools. And this applies not only to this single market program, but also to many other programs. And I'd also like to mention, colleagues, the following. You and I have recently received an evaluation, a verbal evaluation by the European Commission of our movement, of the seven conditions that accompanied the application decision. And I want to remind you that just before this evaluation, we've adopted in this room a number of laws that were necessary for us to get a better estimate. I don't think you and I are students or students, and we wouldn't be under the last one. It is only necessary to pass the bill under examination. So I don't understand why, until now, there's no draft for the second reading of the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court, why we don't consider the bills that are necessary to advance on the anti-corruption condition or the anti-money-laundering condition. I would like to call for our work with the European Union and the decision to open negotiations to be systematic and continuous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u86	Thank you. Platform. Nestor Ivanovich, isn't it? Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u87	Good afternoon! Hello! I'd like to convey the word to Yuri Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u88	Yuri Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, Mr President, we no doubt support this draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, on the other, on the Single Market. At the same time, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, we discussed the previous bill without discussion. And so it has been done in the Supreme Council that what is involved in protecting children is always voted unanimously and without discussion. At the same time, we supported a bill that deals with the protection of children who have suffered from armed conflict and Russia’s full - scale invasion. At the same time, I would like to point out that there are a number of serious warnings in this bill, which we voted on in the first reading. First. This bill introduces compensation for children who have suffered since February 24, 22, but it does not apply in any way to the protection of children who have suffered from war and aggression from the 14th to the 22nd year. The second issue is the creation of a new database of children who have suffered from war. I want to pay attention to the Ministry of Social Affairs, stop destroying the active child base, the only information base "Children," because we're going to have to bring them together and build a single whole base, not re-form something for officials, not for children. In addition, the bill has a number of rules that duplicate or explain existing rules in existing laws, which may lead to the impossibility of implementing them. In general, legislation is sufficient today to have an effective policy of protecting children who have suffered from war. Unfortunately, it's the work of the cosmopolitans.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u90	Thank you. Fatherland, Yvchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u91	Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, dear supporters of Ukraine! What is Parliament looking at today and now? We want to join and join the only market in the European Union. Why? To ensure that you, the honorable advocates and all our citizens, have four freedoms for you: freedom of free movement, freedom of movement, freedom of movement, capitalism, and production. That is, the independent economic activity of every Ukrainian, every small enterprise, every medium-sized enterprise, and so on, we want it to be accessible to the European market, the second global economy, the volumes and arrivals in the European Union. What does that mean? This means that really for the government, and the "Fatherland" faction on this is now stressing, time, first, to report how these four freedoms work in the European Union, and secondly, to submit to Parliament bills that also create the most favourable conditions for the Ukrainian business: small, medium and large, especially with regard to the independent economic employment of our citizens. And one more thing. The war, which means that the only EU market in the interests of the defence industry of Ukraine, our defenders and our protectors, is equally important and we need to jointly produce, service and repair all the technology and all the weapons required by the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We vote in favour, we become members of the European Union. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u92	Heroic glory! Are there any others? Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the bill for registration number 0207, the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, on the other hand, on Ukraine's participation in the Single Market programme of the European Union (2021-2027). Please vote. [[11:51:21]] For 260 Decision taken. Ratification accepted as a whole. Next, no discussion. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's Participation in Customs, the Union Customs Cooperation Programme (Registration No. 0198). I'm betting on the vote to accept as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote, 0198. [[11:52:03]] For 264 Decision taken. Ratification accepted as a whole. The next one, too, is out of the question. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the European Union's fiscal cooperation programme (registration No. 0203). I'm betting on the vote to accept as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[11:52:43]] For 265 Decision taken. Ratification accepted as a whole. The next bill is not discussed either. Draft Law on State Regulation of Plant Protection (Registration No. 8340). The proposal to accept as a basis for redrafting the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116. Please vote. We're voting on the basis. It's a bill on the "A" list of Euro-Integrations. [[11:53:22]] For 255 The law was passed on as a basis. The next bill is not discussed. Draft Decision on the implementation of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (registration No. 9371) by the Chiefs of the Vinegradian Rural Military Administration of the Herson Region and the City City of Scadovian Region of Herson. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:54:04]] For 274 Decision taken. Questions are included in the agenda of the day session. I propose to take a decision in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Please vote (register 9371). [[11:54:30]] For 274 Decision taken. The decree was passed in general. The next bill, 6516, is the second reading. We have an agreement that Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk will speak for three minutes and we will proceed to the vote. Please, Cymbaluk, three minutes. From a place or from a rostrum like you? Out of the way. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u93	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we are actually adopting a very important immigration bill today. We also viewed the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights as a non-head committee and had some discussions. And we think that such a bill today is absolutely necessary considering that we expect a great victory over the aggressor and then it is anticipated that we will have back processes and emigration and immigration to our state. We believe that this bill has been able to improve the second reading of those standards that were previously discussed. And the "Fatherland" faction did, in our opinion, perfect it, and we thank the main committee for that. We wrote our papers taking into account the experience of Germany. And we think that in terms of the fictitiousness of marriages, the responsibility must be borne, as in Germany this is regulated by law, by a foreigner and a citizen of the state at the level. And we think so. We also studied the experience of the United States in this matter, in resisting illegal migration. And by the way, there's a problem of fictitious marriage, but there's a living aid. And also in the event of a violation of such rules, there is a liability by dispossessing under five years of age and a fine of $250,000. And we've also studied Portugal's experience in part in this bill and it's taken into account. Because, in our opinion, if it is approved by the Supreme Council in the second reading and in general, we will think so, and when the President signs it, it will allow the Migration Service of Ukraine's IMF system to work more professionally, professionally. This bill reduces the corruption risks of those citizens who today have a temporary residence permit in Ukraine and will allow for practical settlement of this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u94	Thank you. Let's go to the vote, colleagues. I would like to propose a second reading and, as a whole, with the necessary technical legal amendments, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Immigration Act (registration number 6516) is a Euro-Integration Act under the list "B". Please vote. [[11:58:33]] For 271 The decision has been taken, the Law has been passed in general. Also, the following law, second reading, 9199, also 3 minutes by Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. The draft Law on the introduction of mines into the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Persons who have been found to be deprived of personal liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine and members of their families" on the extension of the list of grounds for establishing the deprivation of personal liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine and bringing individual provisions into line with existing legislation. Please, 3 minutes Tsimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u95	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The Honourable Chairman, the Presidium, the People's Deputies, before the second reading, the "Fatherhood" faction took an active part in its work, and we believe that this bill proposes to complement the list of reasons for establishing a person's deprivation of personal liberty as a result of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine with a document confirming the participation of a person not only in the ATO and the OOS, as has been envisaged to date, but the implementation of the measures necessary to ensure the defence of Ukraine, the protection of the population and the interests of the State in connection with the Russian Federation's military aggression against Ukraine. In fact, before the second reading, the bill has changed slightly, but we believe that the main task for today is that it does. That is, a complete list of the reasons why authorized authorities will feel that the fact of the deprivation of personal freedom as a result of armed aggression has been established. This bill is also important when Ukrainian citizens are caught and are now in the shadows of the Russian Federation. The establishment of such facts and the extension of circumstances is also very important in International Criminal Law, because this is the basis for Ukraine, as a state, to put before the International Criminal Court, other international institutions for the protection of human rights, confirming that the Russian Federation has carried out the deprivation of the will of Ukrainian citizens, civilians, minors, and this will be a separate proof of the aggressor country, its leadership and war criminals. In view of what has been said, we believe that we should support the position of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation, the reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, national minorities and international relations on the proposal to adopt it in second reading and in general. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour. And we invite colleagues to also identify themselves by using green buttons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u96	Thank you, Mikhailovich, for your support. Green buttons are ready to be determined. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Persons Who Are Established to Deprived of Personal Freedom as a result of Armed Aggression against Ukraine and Members of Their Families, to expand the list of grounds for establishing the person's deprivation of personal liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine and to bring individual provisions into line with current legislation (registration No. 9199). Please vote. The proposal to accept in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[12:02:59]] For 265 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Next bill under discussion. First, we need to put it in the order of the day session. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons (Registration No. 9310). I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[12:03:40]] For 266 Decision taken. The bill is included in the agenda of the day session. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[12:04:03]] For 224 Decision taken. Two for, two for, no, I suggest you sign up. "Serve of the People," Tkachenko Maksim Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u97	My colleagues, congratulations! I won't be long to talk, we know about the problem of VPO, unfortunately, issues are getting more and more every day. And the question of housing remains at the first point, for all of our settlers, it doesn't matter where, from every corner of our country, so I'm asking you to support this legislative initiative and support our people, millions of people of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u98	Thank you. "European Solidarity", Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u99	Please pass the word to Lopushana Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u100	Andrew Lopushanski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u101	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! We are discussing the law, the draft Ukrainian Law 9310: amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons on certain issues of the provision of internally displaced persons housing for temporary residence. Currently, according to the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons, local self-government authorities have practically one effective tool: it is the provision of internally displaced housing from a communal form of property free of charge. There is also a declarant form to facilitate the granting of loans to internally displaced persons for land purchases and housing construction. Bill 9310 proposes to significantly expand the capacity of local self - government authorities to provide housing for this category of persons. Therefore, first of all, the provision of guarantees for the housing of our citizens who have suffered the most from military aggression is one of the primary tasks of the State in creating an adequate living environment. In view of the above, the significance of Law 9310 is certainly supported by us in the first reading, but we need to work on the second reading of some points, to harmonize some of the bills. Following that second reading, the Law of Ukraine 9310 should become a priority for the consideration and adoption of the Law in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u102	Thank you, Andry Jaroslavovich. Please, Fatherland, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u103	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, in fact very much today is, I think, a social day, an important bill. And today, it is estimated that there are between 3 and 3.5 million internally displaced persons in the country. This is a large category of citizens who have lost a permanent home and are not known how their future fate will be. With this bill, the authors propose to introduce and extend the social protection of those citizens who are granted temporary housing by the State. Under the current decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, such housing for internally displaced persons is granted free of charge for up to six months. It is by this bill that we propose to lift this restriction and establish the right to free housing for internally displaced persons before the end of the war. It may be necessary to consider the second reading not only before the end of the war but perhaps even six months before the end of the war, for there is no telling how, who, or where, will be able to return after the war. In fact, the law broadens norms, but it also raises some questions about compensation to local authorities for granting such housing. There are other things that need to be put in. I'm sure by the second reading, we'll be able to improve this bill, and it will really protect those people who today have become internally displaced by the will of the barbarians of the Russian Federation. I'm sure we'll work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, "Resurrection", Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u105	Please give the floor to my colleague, Burmich Anatolia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u106	Please, Anatoly Burmich, "Deliverance of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, the "Deliverance of Ukraine" group has always advocated drafts, and supported what helps people live, especially in today's conditions: in conditions of Russian aggression. Today, it is estimated that some 5 million internally displaced persons are still reported to have not registered. And today, in conditions where neither a decent job can be found to buy housing or rent, this bill will have a very positive effect on making this category of people's lives easier. Of course, for the second reading, we believe that it will be necessary to make adjustments to extend and increase compensation on the part of the State and local self-government in order to actually expand those positive moments so that people have a decent life. The "Delivery of Ukraine" group will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u108	Thank you. Are there any other people who would like to discuss it? Let's go to the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of registration number 9310: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons on certain issues of the provision of internally displaced persons with housing for temporary residence. Please vote. [[12:11:40]] For 251 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Next bill, registration number 9185. Draft Act amending the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve criminal penalties under martial law. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. [[12:12:17]] For 248 Decision taken. The proposal is without discussion and an offer to accept this bill as a basis. I therefore propose to vote to adopt a bill with registration number 9185: draft Act amending the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and other Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of criminal penalties in conditions of war. Please vote. [[12:12:57]] For 248 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. The next bill, without discussion, is a bill with registration number 9258: draft law amending the Ukrainian Air Code on the activities of the Ministry of Interior aviation. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, registration number 9258. [[12:13:36]] For 255 Decision taken. I propose a bill with registration number 9258. Please vote. [[12:13:58]] For 258. Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a bill with registration number 9258: draft law amending the Ukrainian Air Code on the activities of the Ministry of Interior aviation. Please vote. [[12:14:31]] For 261 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a whole. Next second reading, 8292. Three minutes is Fatherland and we're going to vote. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, three minutes. Stay put, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u109	Thank you. Unfortunately, Mr. Chairman, in 2010-2014, the "Fatherland" party on its skin, unlike many, including the old politicians who are sitting in the hall, learned of what is unwarranted political persecution, what is prison, what is the order that is "inscribed" (in paws) to the administration of places of imprisonment. We've been through this on our skin. Therefore, we have made enough amendments to this bill, which regulates the functioning of institutions for the execution of sentences and pre-arrangement facilities in conditions of martial law. It's not really easy questions, it's not easy questions, it's not easy to keep abreasters in detention cells. Yes, we realize that there are some problems in connection with Russia’s war, in connection with the fact that a number of areas in which we actually had places of imprisonment and where we actually lived were occupied. But is it the only way out, to set up the living in detention? We understand very well that these are totally different conditions of detention, that these are completely different conditions of punishment, that these are completely different things, such as communicating with those who are living with them, and these are those who are convicted of committing extremely serious crimes, with those who are serving sentences for smaller crimes. The same huge problem is the sharing of adults and minors in the same institution. Yes, of course, they'll be isolated inside this facility, but it's not for anyone to question that there's communication inside the institution outside the authority of that institution. Understandably, if a young person who has committed a crime is influenced by those who are recidivists in committing a crime, this means that such a young person cannot take the path of correction. It's absolutely obvious to anyone who at least understands the functioning of the penitentiary system. Another point discussed in this bill is the issue of video surveillance. I want to remind you that when Julia Timoshenko was in an unlawfully politically motivated prison, 24 to 7 of her video cameras were kept open, and a dozen of the cameras that were hidden in Julia Timoshenko’s prison cell. Regrettably, the proposed bill does not remove such opportunities, but it provides additional opportunities for the administration, if instructed, to conduct video surveillance and then use it against the prisoners at the time of the punishment. Sadly, then, it is difficult to support the bill in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u110	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. The proposal to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill under registration number 8292, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts on the functioning of institutions for the execution of sentences and pre-trial detentions in conditions of martial law. Please vote. [[12:18:29]] For 228 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Next bill, registration number 9197, draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine to ensure the equality of procedural rights of all parties to the trial before the law and the court. Without discussion, we agreed. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. [[12:19:08]] For 245 Decision taken. I propose the adoption of a bill under registration number 9197, the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine to ensure the equality of procedural rights of all parties to the trial before the law and the court. Please vote. [[12:19:40]] For 242 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. The next issue of ratification. We agreed on one question with discussion and then a few votes without discussion. Thus, the draft Act on the Cessation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus on the Mutual Protection of State Secrets (registration No. 0197). I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[12:20:23]] For 229 Decision taken. Two for, two for, please sign in. Please, Ruššin Jaroslav Ivanovich, "The Voice". Samantha Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction, I have a question. I have this impression, you know, after the 24th number, that we're dealing with a written bag with the Republic of Belarus and we can't figure out who it is for us -- a terrorist country, an aggressor country, an aggressor state, no status, no understanding of our relationship with our diplomats there and so on, and so on. I have a question. It's time to put a dot and an understanding where in the coordinate system of Ukraine, Belarus. And it's very strange to me, even though both the Land Army and the Forces of Special Operations of the Republic of Belarus have been involved in the invasion of Ukraine, but there is something that we forget and are very often silent about, and yet we don't allow such things to be spoken about, and we don't make decisions, no decisions in relation to the Republic of Belarus. It's about this bill. As of last year, I had a request to the speaker, a speaker had a request and a commission to the head of the International Affairs Committee for the revision of all such agreements, contracts, any other documents that finally need to be dismantled and deratified. For some reason it was not made. For some 16 months of war, we have similar documents that we have open, tail - to - tails. It seems to me that, once again, with the request of the speaker, with the request of the International Affairs Committee to make this revision of documents so that we, with shame, with the Belarusians and the SND, do not be ashamed of ourselves until the end of our term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u112	Thank you, Samantha Anatolyevna. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u113	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u114	Please, Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u115	Guys, I'm talking about the same thing again. Well, look what we're about to vote on. In order to end the Agreement between Ukraine and Belarus on the Mutual Protection of State Secrets. So far, there is an agreement that Ukraine protects Belarus’s state secrets, and Belarus protects Ukraine’s state secrets. It's 17 months of war. I want to remind you once again that since March of last year, Ukraine has come out of about 80 treaties from the Russian Federation, 40 from Belarus. And once again, I want to repeat what I said, and again, to Mr. Head, I know that he was already addressing the head of the government, but obviously we need to look again. If we step out of agreements with the aggressor country, and countries that help the aggressor country, it will take us a year to get out of all the agreements from Belarus. With Russia, five years. So, Mr. Head, once again, I need to assign to the head of the government not to do so that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs says we can't do that, because it has to make a proposal for an exit or a break-up of the ministry that initiated it, there's a Ministry of Economics or some other ministry, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs washes its hands. There's got to be a clear position that these lists of the most odinous deals will be presented quickly enough so that we can get out in one and two sessions, and leave the brakes that still connects us with the aggressor country, with Belarus within the SND. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as you said correctly, I've already spoken to you, so I'm addressing you again. First of all, I'm going to the committee, honourable colleagues, please include the issue of parliamentary control. please include the issue of parliamentary control and give us cooperation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs in order to finally get this list, which we talked to you about a few months ago. Today, at a meeting with the Prime Minister, I will also raise this issue so that we can get a comprehensive list of relevant agreements that need to be denounced and stopped any relationship in this direction as soon as possible. Thank you. Please, I understand, Alexi Hotcharenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u117	Alexei Hotcharenko. Guys, this is amazing. It's not enough that we have a year and a year and a half of full-scale incursion to continue to maintain diplomatic relations with Belarus, as it turns out, we still have an agreement on mutual protection of state secrets. After Belarus came to kill us in Butch, Irpine, Gostomel, after we had Iranian drones flying from there, Russian missiles, and we were protecting each other's state secrets, that's what this is about. Friends, the only secret of the state is that Belarus is occupied today, and this potato pyre, Führer Lukashenko, is simply a Mexican puppet. But that's true. In the Supreme Council there is a draft decree for our "For Democratic Belarus" merger in Parliament, where there are all the factions that envision breaking up diplomatic relations with Belarus. Finally, to name things by their names that Belarus is occupied by Russia, and we are still keeping State secrets with them. There's Lukashenko giving a special Oonov status to Firthash, you've heard the latest news. Who's he going to give the next one to, Medvedchuk or anyone else? And we're all playing some kind of game around this "indigenous" to how long it's going to take. Friends, I'm addressing you, the only deal that can be in the state of Ukraine and not with the Republic of Belarus today, because it's occupied, but with the Belarusian people, it's how we're going to hang Lukashenko on a stake together and who's going to be the first to break out of his entourage. This is the only deal between us that we can make. Friends, Belarus has to be released, Belarus has to be democratic, Ukraine has to catch up with Lukashenko and punish him for everything he's done.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, we have discussed all the issues involved, and we are moving on to making decisions. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. All those who have the status of Ukrainian national deputy, I ask you to come down to the hall, all those who have the status of government, stay in the government's bed. Please, each one must do his own work. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft law on the termination of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus on mutual protection of State secrets (registration number of draft Law 0197). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:28:53]] For 279 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, no further discussion. Please don't go away. The next bill, 0189, is a draft Act adopting a Protocol amending the Marrakesh Agreement on the Establishment of a World Trade Organization, the Fisheries Grants Agreement. I propose to accept as a whole the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Law 0189. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:29:35]] For 274 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next, 0190 is a draft law on the withdrawal from the Treaty on State Social Assistance to members of families of military personnel who have died in Afghanistan and other states where fighting has taken place. I'm putting forward a proposal, and I'm going to take it as a basis, and as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, draft Law 0190. Please vote. [[12:30:13]] For 266 Decision taken. Next, 9,000 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the provision of social protection for orphans and children deprived of parental care to deal with certain issues of state care for orphans and children deprived of parental care at the end of educational institutions. I'm making an offer to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Number 9100. Excuse me, 9100. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the bill. [[12:30:59]] For 284 Decision taken. The committee's decision is to refer it to the Main Committee for re-reading. That is the decision I put to the vote in the hall. To be sent to the Main Committee to prepare for the re-reading of Bill 9100. Please vote. [[12:31:32]] For 279 Decision taken. The next bill, 9272, is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on patient information verification. We made a deal. Wait a second. We're voting right now. Yes, we vote. I therefore propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the verification of patient information (registration No. 9272). Please vote. [[12:32:23]] For 251 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next one, too, is out of the question. 0184 is a draft Act on the cessation of Ukraine's relations with the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Labour Migration and Social Protection of Migrant Workers and the Protocol amending and supplementing the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Labour Migration and Social Protection of Migrant Workers of 15 April 1994. I propose to accept as a basis and, in general, taking into account the committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, this is draft Law 0184, and I ask the people's deputies to vote. 0184. Stop. Wait a second. Please show me on screen 0184 of the bill. Here. Please, I would like to make the proposal to accept as a basis and, in general, to take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, draft Law 0184, please ask the National Deputies to vote. [[12:33:48]] For 287 Decision taken. The next bill, 5762, is also without discussion, no one will amend, it is a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws to simplify the production of distillates by small businesses. I propose to adopt draft Law 5762 in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:34:26]] For 284 Decision taken. The next bill, 8187, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Defence Act on improving defence management procedures. We agreed on two minutes of Irina Fries' performance and then we vote. Dear colleagues, don't break up in two minutes. We're voting on it. It's military law. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u119	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we are discussing with you a bill that has a very beautiful title: making changes to the Ukrainian Defence Act on improving defence management procedures. It should be noted that it was designed to improve our legislation and bring it into line with requirements, including Nazi standards. I would like to point out that before the second reading, the bill has actually acquired a greater definition of both the term there and the procedure. But at the same time, we have not eliminated a coalition that allows Kabin to form a policy in the field of defence management, which in turn is a violation of existing legislation. Similarly, we allow the Ministry of Defense to coordinate the implementation of policies, which in turn is also a norm that will bring more confusion into relations, the legal relationship of all subjects than determination. So, in view of this, I would like to encourage my fellow honourable colleagues to prepare drafts that will actually bring us closer to Euro-Atlantic integration into the Alliance, rather than being a concept, not even a declaration, but a concept that contains general norms rather than a specification that is used in full. "European Solidarity" urges Parliament to prepare bills that will actually bring us closer to the Alliance rather than contain declarative, conceptual norms.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u120	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Defence Act on improving the procedures for the administration of defence resources (registration No. 8187). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:37:10]] For 279 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next, no discussion. Excuse me, two minutes, Heratchenko, I think, next. This is the 9360th draft of the Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Heads and Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council Committees of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, we will certainly support this decision because every national MP has the right to work on the committee he has chosen and to strengthen the capacity of these committees. At the same time, when it comes to opposition, our deputies are being blocked by our right to a quota that is absolutely legal to be substitutes for certain committees. "European Solidarity", which greatly honors our esteemed colleague General Zabrodsky, who is now working to protect the country, now has this quota at the Committee on Safety and Defence, the first deputy. But somehow this committee is blocking the right of European Solidarity to appoint our representative to serve as the committee's first deputy. We have our worthy representatives there, both Andrew Parobius and Irina Fries, and we demand that our first deputy be there. Next. Note that there is no freedom of speech in Ukraine. We have the only marathon that can show, in violation of the Orders of the Supreme Council and the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the One Information Policy, that violates all these rules. They wanted to spit on the security of both the Supreme Council's apparatus and the deputies, demonstrating directly on the air, only the President's Office scroll came out of the Supreme Council's premises, our meeting. And the MPs themselves are trying to get regular punishments. As soon as Alexy Hotcharenko gives information about the Supreme Council free of charge, he is beaten in the face. Why? Because we still have the Committee on Freedom of Speech as the representative of the FMCT. We demand that this post be put to the vote and eliminated in general because it does not protect any freedom of speech today. Or assigning someone to the committee to defend freedom of speech, and this is Victoria Sumar's representative of European Solidarity. Well, please, we demand.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u122	Mrs. Irina, what are you beating Alexia for? Come on! You have some strange relationship in a faction, that. We've accepted the Istanbul Convention for this. Let's move on, dear fellows, let's move on. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, take your seats. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call" (Registration No. 9360). People's deputies please vote. [[12:40:46]] For 267 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. 4411 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences to improve legislation in the field of migration. We had an agreement: 3 minutes – Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk and then we vote. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u123	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the National Deputies! This bill is derived from the bill of registration number 4412, which we have already approved with you today. And the main problem after the first reading was that there was an attempt to introduce an additional article to KUPAP, which would provide for a new composition of administrative offences, namely: malicious disobedience to the legal order or the requirement of an official of the central executive authority to implement state policies in the field of migration, emigration, or the State Migration Service. But the committee had been able to improve the second reading of this rule, and it had already poured into what is said to be another content in an article that corresponds to norm-making, resulting in a completely different, correct content. In general, the draft law is, of course, necessary, which has been implemented, we have previously approved 4411. This bill has received the approval of both the National Security and Defence Council and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which implements state policy in the field of emigration and immigration, as well as our legislators, and I mean scientific institutions: and the National Academy of Foreign Affairs, the National Academy of Internal Affairs, etc. In view of the above, I propose to adopt Bill number 4411 in the second reading and in general, and then the Ministry of Internal Affairs in general, the Cabinet of Ministers will be able to implement state policy in the field of immigration and immigration with dignity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u124	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please be prepared. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Improvement of Migration Legislation (Registration No. 4411). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:04]] For 262 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, 9325, is a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine and other Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the provisions of effective legislation in part of the criminal responsibility for the commission of military criminal offences related to violations of the rules on the use, execution or preparation of war vehicles. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session, 9325. Please vote. [[12:44:50]] For 258. Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:45:11]] For 222 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed that this would be discussed. [[B in m in s a l in]] I said, with the discussion that this is going to be a discussion. Please, Alexander Yuriovno, will you report? Ustenova, please. Ustenova Alexander Yuriovna as the initiator of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, this is a very simple bill, and you'll be very surprised at what it is. You know, we've been at war for almost a year and a half, and so far, no rules have been laid down for wartime flights. If we have a pilot now violating the rules of flight that exist for civil aviation. Well, I'll give you an example, if the helicopter doesn't fly at 9 meters, but 3, because it has to hide from the air force, from the enemy, if something happens to that helicopter, our pilot will land at least 5 years, and at most 15. This is an injustice that was once established in our Criminal Code, which must now be corrected. Because unfortunately, we have against our pilots, who are now protecting our dying sky, who are opening up the criminal conduct of the D.B.I. because they are forced to do so according to our current legislation. The bill proposes to expand the kind of responsibility, we do not criminalize this article, but we allow people not to be held accountable, I'll put it simply -- not to plant them from 5 to 15 years, and this will be a conditional form of disciplinary responsibility when they remain in their service. So I'm asking you very much, it's not just helicopters and our helicopter pilots, it's also the same for our fighter pilots, because they need to think first of all now not about meeting the conditions that exist for civil aviation, but about protecting Ukraine and saving their lives and crews. So I ask you very much to support this bill, which is now awaited by everyone who protects us and our sky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u126	Thank you, Alexander Yuriovn. Please, Sergey Konstantinovich Ionushas.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Protection at its meeting has supported Bill 9325, and I would like to point out in detail that this bill is not only supported by the committee, but also fully supported by our Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence, we have an official letter. So, honourable colleagues, I propose to support this bill as a basis, and we will work with you on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u128	Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, please, two for, two for, no, please sign in. Please, Bobrovska Svetlana Anatolyevna, the Voice faction. Oh, my God, Samantha Anatolyevna, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u129	Ustenova Alexandra, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u130	Alexander Ustinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u131	I won't delay your time. I don't think there's gonna be a person in this room who won't support the defenders of our sky or vote in favour of this bill. And I really hope that this isn't going to be 3 million rights to second reading that don't apply to anything other than our pilots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u132	Thank you. Please, we still have Kamelchuk Yuri Aleksandrovitch passing over to Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, I also want to support this bill. I'm one of the co-authors. My wife and I worked together with Alexander Juryovna. There was a huge discussion with the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Air Force, the State Bureau of Investigation, the Attorney General's Office, and we were trying to propose the exact design in the Criminal Code, which does not decriminalize criminal punishment for violations of the rules on the possession or operation of cars, flight regulations and so on. However, it will take into account the conditions under which our fighter pilots carry out their tasks on helicopters. And that's really the fact that the previous story says that unfortunately, we don't have rules in the wartime of flight regulations, and actually the pilots are violating them because there are combat tasks in the state of war. Dear colleagues, there is a slight increase in the discretion of the court, such as the court’s ability to choose more types of punishment, such as service restrictions, disciplined battalions, and restrictions and deprivation of liberty. All these circumstances, however, must be taken into account by the court, depending on where the case was carried out. I'm asking each and every one of you to support us, because this is the support of our Air Force, our pilots. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u134	Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u135	Please pass the word to Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u136	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u137	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Thank you, Sergio Vlasenka, for your word. The honourable chairman, the presidency, the national MPs, I agree with the authors and the speakers that there is less to be discussed here, the first reading, the work to be done. And so that not only the pilots, but the pilots. The armies that run both the fighting machines and the ships were under the protection of the state. The regime of martial law places entirely different conditions that neither the Armed Forces of Ukraine nor the system of state administration of Ukraine have encountered. Because the law is necessary, it is timely. We need to work on, approve, and ensure that both the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the State’s law enforcement system work in sync, understanding the realities of life and recognizing the dangers. Today it's a victory, and the law in a state of war must also be a law that takes into account real circumstances. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour and promises a small number of fundamental rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u138	Thank you. Please, from European Solidarity, Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u139	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Surely this law must be passed, and I urge everyone to vote. Because we're with you, my friends, here was our pilot-hero, Vadim Vorosilov, the invited Karaya, who shot down five drones on Winnitzkin on October 12th last year and then took his fighter plane away from town and catapulted. At the same time, in our legislation today, it is hard. A severe punishment and a violent approach to those who lose combat equipment, but during the war, it is absolutely possible. And our mission is to save the lives of our heroes, the lives of our pilots, the lives of our military. The technique is certainly secondary. And we have to humanize our legislation, we have to take into account all the circumstances that occur during the war and the fighting, so that over our pilots and not only over them do not hang the damocles sword, the punishment is unknown for what. This is actually a very serious question. You and I, friends, have to watch how we can help our military personnel not get under the cranes, so that they don't turn out to be heroes today, and tomorrow, after the war, they'll be hunted down by appropriate articles of the Criminal Code or something like that. So, my friends, our task with you is to adopt such laws and others, to extend your hand, to help -- that's what we do as legislators. In general, I think that the day that the Supreme Council did not adopt the law to support the military is just a day that we could not get together. Therefore, an important law, I urge everyone to vote for it, to elaborate and to put it into effect. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, also Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, and after that we are voting, please prepare to make a decision. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u141	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, it is precisely the case that a number of colleagues from different factions and political groups have worked extremely carefully not only on the Committee of Law. Because it is an extremely sensitive question, the responsibility of military personnel, civilians, the use of technology, special technology, costly technology, its effective use in war or war activities, and its preservation. So we're very careful about how to evaluate this responsibility and I think the bill looks extremely right and balanced. So the trust MP group will vote for him and urge all other colleagues to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our deliberations on this very important bill, and we have completed our preparations for a decision. I propose to adopt, as a basis, the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the provisions of effective legislation in part of the criminal responsibility for the commission of military criminal offences related to violations of the rules on the use of war machines or special machines, the execution of flights or the preparation of warships (registration No. 9325) People's deputies please vote for acceptance as a basis. [[12:56:50]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following Bill 9354 is a draft law on the creation of a garden-parked art park. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[12:57:21]] For 255 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:57:42]] For 221 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, whether we can discuss it or not.? Discussing it, huh? Okay. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join President Green's-announced discussion of Ukrainian doctrine. This is very important, indeed, for Ukraine to become a member of the EU and NATO. But it's not just our Armed Forces that have to actually protect the country so heroically, by demonstrating the highest standards. Not only do we have to make progress in protecting our ecology and certainly create new parks, but we have to fight corruption. The Park "Mježirja" is a monument to corruption. But soon there will be a sculpture of the wax Yanukovich as a reminder of the new authority that is now going on with corruption. I want to go to the head of the People's Servant party and ask, how do you feel about Mr. Trubicin? How did you somehow escape from Ukraine with the help of our power structures, and you just excluded it from the party and from the faction? So start including an imperative mandate, excluding all the garbage actually from our local authorities. Tell me, please, how does this happen that today we have this corruption pervading ministries and departments? Which is already at international conferences, and we have Parliament's leadership there, and the truth has not included the representatives of European Solidarity, we've only returned from London. And I know there was one thing on each panel: the heroic Armed Forces, the heroic Ukrainian people, but we have to fight corruption. You know, the President said a lot of important words yesterday, but he didn't mention, for some reason, the corruption that bothered the country back in 2019. Today, when he meets business, business is already saying that Yanukovic is resting compared to these new young corrupts who are packed even during the war. All these soldiers, all these bastards, they run out of the country. So, we're going to vote for the Magi, but let's do a little bit more together to overcome corruption in Ukraine. It's different.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u144	The only one, for clarification, is Irina Volodymyryn, a representative of your faction was involved in the trip, but he didn't leave, Aleksiev. I didn't know that Alexeieva had already been expelled from the faction. Okay. Thank you. Please, come on, Litwinov Alexander Mikolayovich. That's what Bondarenko says.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u145	Yes, Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u146	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u147	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use, have considered this bill on the creation of a park-to-park art of the state-wide importance of “Megigira”. He recommended his decision to the Supreme Council to accept this law as a basis and as a whole. What is provided for by this law? This law provides for the creation of a park monument in the territory of the Visgorod region of Kyiv, on the basis of the land of state ownership that is being provided for permanent use. To create a special administration of the park of garden-parking art of the state-wide meaning of “Mježirja” and to confirm the position to be confirmed by Mindowkill. Dear colleagues, we finally have to adopt this law, we have to determine the legal status of this object, of course, the object of state importance. We have to finally transfer this object to the state property, we have to break up both the legal link and the resulting link, and we have to forget Yanukovic's name in general, remove Yanukovic's name from our history. The adoption of this law will be one step toward this. Please support this law and accept it in the first and second readings as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u148	Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u149	Please pass the word Vasilko Lesi.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u150	Please, Lesya Vasilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u151	Thank you. Colleagues, 9354 is just a slightly better version of its previous 8341. But a little. There are significant observations from the environmental community about this bill, which I would like to make today. Article 37 of the Ukrainian Law on the Natural and Inventory Fund defines garden and park art parks as the most important and valuable examples of park construction, which are preserved for aesthetic and scientific purposes. "The Magi" is an apiori that doesn't match this definition, it's a monument to mourning and corruption, and it's a quote that I very much agree with. If the goal really is to protect the ecosystem and the biodiversity network that was formed in the territory of "Mejriya", then the law has mechanisms to do so. You can create a national park in this area. National parks are created by the President's decree, the mechanisms are, the tools are for that, but somehow it's not done. Next. The bill states that 69 million dollars are needed for its implementation. Why is the amount not clear? Today, there's 52 million dollars in debt in Medjugorje plus more than 13 million dollars a year just for electricity for this park, for this structure. So to support this very pointy and political, and not an ecological mechanism at all, I don't see the possibilities for today and I'm asking for restraint.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u152	Please finish, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. I mean, it's Ivan Grigorovich, isn't it? Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, after that we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u153	Thank you, Mr. Head. Absolutely "The Fatherland" supports the question of turning "The Magi" into a monument to the garden-parking art of state importance. But I'd like to agree with those colleagues who were talking about "Migiriya" not about the park. "Migiry" is about total corruption that existed in Ukraine. And here the colleagues mentioned and said that there was a monument to Janukovich, but I would advise everyone else to put a monument near Yushchenka. I want to remind everyone that, in fact, Janukovic's "Megirja" was passing on to such a forgotten politician Victor Andrievich Yushchenko in 2007. And, by the way, that's why the leading DUS in the days of Yushchenka, Mr. Tarasyuk, made a deal with the investigation and got a probationary deadline for the transfer of "Mejriya" Yanukovich. "Medzigirja" Janukovic was transferred after the parliamentary elections in 2007, when it was understood that the Janukovič-capac government would already have another authority and Yushchenko by then, before handing over the whole country to Yanukovich in 2010, he decided to give him a "Mježirja" in 2007 by signing the corresponding documents. I have a simple question: where is the criminal case against this criminal against Victor Andriovich Yashchenk? This case was broken a few years ago, but somehow it's hidden somewhere, somewhere it's gone. And where is the evaluation of this policy? It's not good right now, but it's being pulled out on television periodically and it's starting to say that it's the best Ukrainian president. It's not the best Ukrainian president, it's the corrupter who passed on "Megirja" Yanukovic. And next to Yanukovich's name on "Megigrier" should be the capital letters written by Yushchenko and emphasized twice to ensure that such things never happen. And to the law enforcement authorities, please consider this statement to be a parliamentary appeal to the law enforcement authorities to file a criminal case against Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk for "Megigira".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u154	What I didn't expect Yushchenka to remember! Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. The committee's proposal is on the basis and in general. I understand that. Not supported? Lies to Volodymyrovich? We're just laying it down? What, based on that, is it? Let's ask. On the basis and in general can we, dear colleagues? Sergei, can we build on the whole? It's just a foundation, isn't it? Do you mind? Voice as a basis only, do I understand? Okay. "European Solidarity" is just the basis, isn't it? Okay. Well, then let's just lay the groundwork. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft law on the creation of a garden and park art monument for the state-wide meaning of "Mezhiriya" (registration number 9354). Please vote. [[13:07:57]] For 243 Decision taken. So let me make an offer. Oleg Volodymyrovich Bondarenko is asking me to shorten the deadlines for preparing for the second reading. So I'm proposing to shorten the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 9354. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:08:33]] For 219 Well, that's what happened. 219, yes. The decision is not taken. That's why we're preparing without shortening the time. 9129, honorary colleagues. This is a bill amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Museums and Museums on how museums can be further used if museums are reorganized. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. 9129. [[13:09:14]] For 246 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:09:34]] For the 220. Decision taken. Please, colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Sure. Besides "European Solidarity," who's gonna be there? Come on, two minutes, "European Solidarity" and we're voting. Who? Please, Princess. Dear colleagues, we're voting in two minutes. No, and if there's anyone else, then we'll take notes, friends. One second, please sign in, two in, two in. But you come up, if your parents sign up, you'll just be the first to speak. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Klimpush-Cincadze passes the word, I understand, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this very project is simple enough, he proposes to clarify the Law on Museums and Museums and to foresee that, in the event of reorganization (combination, merger, separation) of museums based on state and municipal ownership, the order of further use of their museum meetings is determined by the consent of Mincult. Obviously, it's worth supporting. This is a simple project that will help to prevent the destruction or disappearance of the museum fund. But I would like to raise another question -- the question of the whole state policy of preserving the cultural values of the museum fund, taking into account the damage that this area is suffering in connection with Russian aggression. Colleagues, we've long had to invite ministers here and, in particular, the minister of culture. Do you know how many Ukrainian museums were destroyed during Russian aggression? How many Ukrainian paintings and examples of art were taken to Russia or stolen from Ukraine. How many Scythians near Nicopol have been destroyed, believe me, these are dozens. There's stolen values, Ukrainian government values for millions of dollars. When we talked about cultural politics, today we touched on the issue of the church, which continues, the Russian Church, to act in Ukraine, usurping our Lavra and Kiev-Petersk, and Pocaivsky. We saw the terrible conclusion of the Venice Commission on the National Minorities Act. Our nation is represented, which was a nationalist service there, and has in fact been inactive and does not oppose attacks on the part of Hungary and our other enemies. We certainly need to change our cultural policies. Cultural politics is part of our security. For this reason, we need to have normal hearings in this room, listen to the minister of culture, because after our victory it will be revealed that all our acquisitions will be destroyed not only by the aggressors but also by us because of our terrible indifference. And there's nothing we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, please provide Sergio Mikolayovich Evtushka with an address. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u157	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. With regard to the bill, my fellow dignitaries, it is absolutely positive because our masterminds invented, except for liquidation, a number of other synonyms in the form of reorganization, optimisation, merger, integration and everything else, so that our museums don't steal land from our museums. Apparently, this bill provides for amendments to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Museums and Museums. And here's all these norms that I've been talking about: mergers, integrations, optimizations, there's also a list that prohibits such decisions. I just want to remind myself now, my dear colleagues, of our values, of the museum exhibits that took place quite recently. On June 9, this year, nearly 10 years later, the Supreme Court of the Netherlands committed the museum of Allard Pierson to return the Scythian gold to Ukraine. And here is the honor and praise of the Supreme Court of the Netherlands. And the second point that I want to say is that as a result of the agreement on a visit to Ukraine by French Minister of Culture Rome Abdul Malak in February 23rd in early May this year, the Louvre took 16 works of art to protect them from war. These are our exhibits, these are our partners who are obliged to store in their museums, in the Louvre in particular, those values, these museum exhibits that were gathered in Ukraine and were Ukrainian. The Russian Federation, on the other hand, is trying to kidnap them and take them out. In fact, they act like barbarians. That's why we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u158	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, and this is the final performance. After that, we vote, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, when we discuss this bill and when we accept it, we must come out of one – the preservation of the cultural and historical values that are stored in our museums. And for that we have to not waste time, but vote as quickly as possible, because in all due respect for the museum, I am absolutely convinced that we have other important issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, on the basis of the drafting of provisions in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Act amending article 10 of the Law on Museums and Museums on the order for the further use of museum meetings in the event of the reorganization of museums (registration No. 9129). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:16:20]] For 247
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u161	Wait a second. I'll ask. Colleagues, do you mind? Can we vote in general? I'm putting this proposal in, the committee's decision doesn't have it, but I'm betting. Now, for a second, the committee doesn't mind. I don't mind. Irina Miroslavna, you. Is there work to be done? I'm sorry, the committee says we need work. Why don't we cut the deadlines so they can work faster? Come on. I propose to shorten the deadlines for preparing for the second reading of Bill 9129. People's deputies, please vote. Because I see that you voted 116, I understand that there's something to work on, yes. Please vote. [[13:17:19]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next bill, 7574. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on mandatory registration and use of electronic offices in the Single Court Information and Telecommunications System by legal representatives, legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs. We agreed: Three minutes of Vlasenko and then we vote. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich. And I'm going to put it on and say it again. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Fatherland faction has a systematic vision of how judicial reform should be carried out in the country. We think that the use of electronic cabinets in the way it is now, and that's the way it is forced, is unacceptable, and more so, during the war, the more when we're being attacked by territories, the more when we're having problems with the internet in the country. We believe that such a situation does not need to be premature, it is impossible to introduce the responsibility of subjects, certain subjects, to register in electronic offices, and to continue to communicate with the court only within electronic offices. That is, at least it will be the duty of the court to do so. Yes, the party can send documents and in writing, but the court will only communicate with it in electronic offices. We consider it to be the right position of the committee of profile, the position that has been taken by insistence on the faction of the Fatherland faction, namely the exclusion of the natural persons of entrepreneurs from this list is necessarily the introduction of communication by the court through electronic offices. We think it's completely wrong. On the background of adoption, 8401, on the background of other issues that make the lives of entrepreneurs more difficult. Today, it is not possible to oblige individuals who are entrepreneurs to communicate exclusively with the court in electronic form. That would mean that any court document, any subpoena. Yes, this is not about criminal conduct in this bill. However, disputes and judicial communications in other jurisdictions are intended under this bill to take place only electronically by the court. Yes, we think of it as the "Fatherland" faction, that such an obligation to communicate electronically with the court should, first of all, be applied to public authorities, to local self-government bodies. There's no problem. Everything connected with the state communicates with another state body electronically. And everything else has to happen in a voluntary order. And only in the case of a person involved in the trial did the court make an appropriate statement. If there is no such statement, in our opinion, communication should take place normally in paper form. And once again, we find that unacceptable in Fatherland, the more during the war, the more during the shootings, the more when we destroy critical infrastructure objects, including objects that provide the internet in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I can see from the table that there's also an amendment that changes the name of this law. But I put it in the name it's in. But changes will enter a new name. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the mandatory registration and use of electronic offices in the Single Court Information and Telecommunications System by legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs (registration number 7574-d). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:21:42]] For 226 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Thank you. Let's move on. The next is 9078, we agreed without discussion. This is a draft law amending Chapter XV of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on mandatory State Pension Insurance on sources of pension and funeral benefits. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 9078. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:22:41]] For 249 Decision taken. The law is to be passed in general. The next bill, 9141, is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, to simplify the procedure for granting veteran status. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:23:13]] For 245 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:23:32]] For the 220. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please, is there a need to discuss whether we can accept it? Yes. Then write down: two in, two in, against, the factions that want. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u164	Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to give the floor to Mrs. Sofia Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u165	Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u166	At this stage, 51 percent of veterans have a problem with the UBD, as they are mostly denied help. The problem is that at the level of parts they can't get the right documents, the problem of V.V.C., the inability to get the documents that allow for one-off assistance. But there is also the problem that there are no terms for providing help, disorientation with military personnel, what to do, a large proportion of baseless refusals and help that are different from the pattern. These issues need to be addressed, but the main question is whether the bill deals with these issues. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Veterans, and the Chief Executives Department, are stressing that there is not enough solution to the issue, and on the contrary, the bill, in the form that it is now prescribed, is creating additional obstacles. For example, he bureaucraticizes the process and, on the contrary, continues the deadlines for the possible provision of help, but in the same way, there is uncertainty in the terms and rules of law. In this case, it would be possible to resolve this issue with help, as the GNEU suggests, especially through automatic help, without the request of a soldier or a relative of the deceased. So at this stage, "European Solidarity" will continue to vote in favour of this bill. We hope that by the second reading he will be professionally developed and then we will, of course, support. Because the solution to the issue of providing UBB for military personnel is critical and we always support such things. And one more moment, literally last week, I got a call from the forward unit that's been there for a year and a half and a half, and it can't get help for a year and a half. So let us work hard and do our best to make life easier for the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u167	Please give the floor to the national deputy Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u168	Please give the word to Jehor Chernev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u169	Yegor Chernev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u170	Good afternoon, colleagues. I'm the author of this bill, and I'm going to tell you what he's really about. Indeed, there is a problem of not becoming a participant in hostilities today. I can give you one number. On February 24th, only 8,000 fighters, or 8,000, were issued with status cards. And when we registered this bill, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Veterans also worked on other ways to solve this problem. Yes, this bill will not solve all problems. There are parallel processes to maximize the digitalization of this process so that people do not collect their papers that they have already provided to the State. In this bill, we oblige the State not to require people to have the documents they already have, N.N., passports, other documents. If the state already has, why would a man need it, a military officer in a war zone. He needs to follow these instructions, these papers to give back to the state that has it all. In fact, the bill requires the State not to require documents that it already has, thereby simplifying the process of obtaining that status, and not pushing our military personnel around the offices. So I'm asking you to support this bill in the first reading, we're going to work on this bill for the second reading, so there's something to work on. But let's start this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u171	Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u172	Thank you. I'm sorry to pass the word to the national MP Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u173	Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u174	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we no doubt support this bill. Because, in fact, the procedures that a military officer faces today, the person who gets hurt, the person who starts. becomes a participant in combat, they're demeaning to our defenders. Unfortunately, for almost a year and a half of the war, and we don't see any quality legislative initiatives that would simplify procedures that would protect a Ukrainian military official often from delusion, misunderstanding, or professionalism, at one level or another, from government authorities, or from specific officials and officials. But I want to thank my fellow Ukrainian national deputies for taking this initiative. Although, as they say, in cooperation with the ministries, again, there are no bills for a comprehensive approach to the protection of veterans, disabled persons, members of the fighting forces, unfortunately from the professional ministries. Neither about rehabilitation nor about providing adequate assistance to them but also to their families. So on an opportunity basis, I call on officials of honor, government departments of profile, do not sit, do not wait, prepare legislative initiatives, work with the national parliaments. We are willing to give and actively engage in this work in order to help as much as possible today to protect the backwaters for those of our military personnel who are at the front today, to feel that the state, the Supreme Council, every ministry for them, is not expecting any active action from them, or that they are demeaning their honour and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u175	Please, Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u176	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, Presidium, National Deputies! I agree with my colleagues that this should be an initiative of the Ministry of Veterans. We have not waited, for more than a year, for proposals from them to improve the status of a participant in combat. And I'm grateful to the authors, because it's really an attempt to simplify the lives of those people who are on the up front today and those who are demobilized and are injured today, they can't get into martial law, and their families can't legally use the benefits that are provided for by law. Because of this, there is something to work on. But the idea that I have is a positive one, so that the person who came to the commission would be the only one -- just the first one. Period. All the rest must be done by an authority authorized by the State. I agree with Mr. Chernev that it's a positive idea after all. The second reading clearly needs to be improved, in general, in order for everything to happen without human involvement, the officials have to have and have a part of their powers now and perhaps expand them to make everything happen automatically, so that everything will be civilized today. After approval in the first reading, we are working on the second, and when this bill becomes law, it will say that the Supreme Council has the political will to demonstrate, not in words, but in further support of our participants in hostilities. Praise the Armed Forces and Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u177	Please, Artem Dmitri, and this is the final performance today. Dear colleagues, after that we are moving on to making a decision. Please, Mr. Artem.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, respected citizens of Ukraine! Based on the numerous petitions of our citizens and the complaints of our military personnel about the real problems of obtaining a participant in combat or the status of a person with disabilities as a result of war, this bill is very relevant. For a year and a half, there is a full - scale war, and our defenders and their families face up to each other with the need for a collection of numerous aids and other documents in order to qualify for the necessary status and to obtain financial assistance. The time has come to restore justice, I stress, the State guarantees social protection to specific categories of persons, in which case it must itself require documents to be made available to the competent authorities if such documentation has not been provided by the citizen himself. The MP's "Delivery of Ukraine" group calls for maximum consolidation under this bill and support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, everyone has spoken. I invite you to make a decision and make an offer. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, to simplify the procedure for granting veteran status (registration No. 9141). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:34:36]] For 254 Decision taken. The law is adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, the following Bill 9226 is a draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the legal regulation of legal relations related to the assignment, the granting of one-off financial assistance and the granting of benefits to certain categories of persons. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session, 9226. Please vote. [[13:35:18]] For 256 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:35:41]] For 219 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we not discuss this? Then let's not discuss it. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to improve the legal regulation of legal relations related to the assignment, the granting of one-off financial assistance, and the granting of benefits to certain categories of persons. — Registration No. 9226. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:36:21]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill 8025. This is a draft Act amending certain legislation on State support for agriculture and exports of agro-products during the war. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:36:55]] For 226 [[B in m in s a l in]] 226 is a short-term review and 150 is required. Arthur Volodymyrovich, we can put it on right away, yes? All right, no questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, on the basis of the Committee's proposals and with the development of regulations in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, a draft Act amending certain legislative acts relating to State support for agriculture and the export of agro-products during the war (registration No. 8025). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:37:51]] For 238. Decision taken. The bill was adopted on the basis of the 116th regulation. Dear colleagues, the next bill is 9156-d-p. It's a restraining order. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 03.05. 2023 on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure that property rights are inviolable. We agreed not to discuss it at once. Well, it's written without discussion. Well, the author. Let's give it to the author. Please, Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u180	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko. Guys, this is a very important question right now. I'm paying attention to you, I put this bill in motion, and I blocked it to show how it's going on here in the session hall, when Deputy Cabal's decision just stopped the decision in favour of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian military personnel to come back to the 30th, all of them: the police, the State Border Service, the Nachwardia, the rescuers, all those who deserve it. Then, with such an easy movement, Deputy Cabal blocked it all. And it's as if they found it as a "beautiful baboon," as you can see, it's blocked. But the game continued, and his determination has been blocked for nearly three months. My decision was made a month later, the committee's decision a month later on my decision, but as you can see, it's now in order and now you're going to fail it to unlock the law. What about the law on the thirtieth, and what about the decree of the Cabal? Where is the decree of the Cabal, why do we not consider it, where is it in order of the day? Why don't we give the money back to all our military personnel? Once again, the border guards, the Nazis, the rescue workers, the police -- how much longer are we going to abuse them? It hangs, as if blocked by the decree of the Cabal. So now it's forever? The Cabal is the perpetuum-mobile we're going to have, it's going to hang forever, and that's how we found this mechanism?Oh, my God! First of all, it's a mistreatment of military personnel. Secondly, it's a very, very dangerous precedent: tomorrow any law will be blocked and forgotten. I demand that we abide by the rules and the Constitution. My decree has been decreed: bring the wicked decree of the Cabal, and let us return thirty to the heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I just want to remind everyone who forgot: yesterday we only voted on this bill, where you, by the way, were the second co-author, and today I've already signed it and sent it to the President. The question is solved, therefore. But now we're putting in the 9156-d-P Project. It's a so-called blocking order, it's a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 03.05. 2023 on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the security of property rights (registration number 9156-d of 01.05. 2023) authorships, you understand, of the People's Deputy of Goncharenko. Dear colleagues, I'm putting in this motion for a ruling. Please vote. [[13:41:30.]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Station's been breached. What procedure do you want? Please, Irina Volodymyr, out of procedure. We need to study that procedure. Please, come on, Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Head of the Supreme Council is trying to demonstrate a good taste when so much attention is given to the best faction in Parliament -- "European Solidarity." But at the same time, I want to tell you that you're not our boss, you're equal among equals. And so please don't comment on all the national MPs and deputies, all the factions, please don't comment on "European solidarity." More than that, you may be deceiving respectable voters, for the order of the Cabal does not only block payments to the military, but it allows these many thousand payments to be paid to the right people. We've got deputy ministers today getting 400,000 dollars of wages. We've got some other government officials there, who are corrupt, who get millions of wages, more than the Chief of the Supreme Council, they get salaries, even though they work less. And that's why we really demand that the order of the Cabal be put to the vote now in order to return.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u183	Irina Volodymyrna, look, I appreciate the good taste, but it turns out in another, believe me. In terms of what you're talking about, you know how any project goes into the agenda, and that's exactly what this decision came into the agenda because of the decision of the Conciliation Board. Besides that. All of it. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. I am. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next question. We agreed that we would continue to be renamed. We agreed, two minutes – Vladimir Mikhajlovich, one minute, super, one minute – Vladimir Mikhajlovich Vjatrović and we are voting without discussion on all these renaming orders. Please, Viátrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u184	Of course, we support all of these names. And by taking this opportunity, I urge everyone to support, vote on the renaming. Indeed, it is about isolated settlements that still contain Communist names, Russian names. But I wanted to use this statement to draw attention to the harmful activities of the National Commission on National Language Standards, which published an entirely unacceptable list of about one and a half thousand population items that seem to have been renamed under the Decommunization Act. In this list, the absolute majority is not really called, part of the population that contains the history of a century, or the history of a thousand years. So I refer, in particular, to my colleagues from the local self - government committee, not to allow for such impeccable changes. And I think there's good reason to talk about some personnel change in this commission that discredits Ukraine's very important decommunization policy and is very important to us is the Decommunization Act, which was passed by an absolute majority in this room. Thank you and thank you to all those who have responded to these unacceptable suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u185	Vladimir Mikhailovich, we can go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I'm going to make every renaming order in a row, and we're just voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, there's renaming and bordering. Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, quite clearly. I'm making an offer. 7369. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance establishing the boundaries of the city of Shargorod of the Žmerinsk Region of the Winnitsk Region (registration number 7369). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:45:47.]] For 246 Decision taken. Next 7399. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance establishing the boundaries of the city of Žmerka in the Jmerinsk Region of the Winnitsk Region (registration number 7399). Please vote. [[13:46:19]] For 249 Decision taken. Next bill, 7539. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft regulation to amend and establish the boundaries of the City of Wrath in the Winnitsky region of Winnitsky. Project Order 7539. Please vote. [[13:46:54]] For 255 Decision taken. Next, 6109. I propose to adopt, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Order on the Renaming of Lenin's village of the Heisinsky region of the Winnitz region. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:47:28]] For 247 Decision taken. Next bill, 6219. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Order on the Rename of the Village of Novgorodkovka of the Melitopol Region of Zaporozhye. Project Regulation 6219. Please vote. [[13:48:04]] For the 250. Decision taken. Next 6220. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Order on the Rename of the village of Latovka Odes District of Odessa. Project Order 6220. Please vote. [[13:48:38]] For 247 Decision taken. The next one is 8362. This is a project called the Rename Village of the Slavskie Stryské district of Lvivské region. I'm proposing a renaming. I understand. Dear colleagues, Alexander Sergiyovich asks that I simply inform you that Slavsky is being renamed Slavskie. But the name of the determination is what it is. That's why I'm sorry. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Order on the Renaming of the Village of the Slavskie Stryskie District of Lviv Region (draft Decree 8362). Please vote. [[13:50:02]] For 251 Hello, Slavsky. Brainy, please, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u186	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The only question. Please tell me, we've just renamed the village of Zaporozhye district in the Melitopol region, which is in the occupied area. Why are we now considering these issues, and the Supreme Council is dealing with such topics? That's true. I understand those areas that are under control today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u187	What, are they no longer Ukrainian territories or what? Did they stop being Ukrainian territory?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u188	They're under the Orcs today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u189	What? What? We didn't lose them. These are our territories. Ukraine’s jurisdiction extends to them. Let's move on, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall, please be quiet. The next one is 9019. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Order on the Renaming of the settlement of the Pervomayan Heisinsky district of the Winnitsky region. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:51:47]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next project is 9053. It's a draft decision to rename the village of Moscow Shastkin district of Suma. I'm offering to accept it as a whole. Yes, look, it's renamed Kyivsky, Moscow, Kiev, but I'm taking it as a name. Dear colleagues, I would like to make a proposal to adopt, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft of the Order on the Rename of the Village of the Moscow Shastkin district of the Sum region (9053). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:52:49]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and I understand that the final project for today is 9054. It's a draft decision to rename the village of Lolukhiv in the region of Zakarpat. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Decree 9054. Please vote. [[13:53:29]] For 248 Decision taken. Alexander Sergiyovich, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u190	Thank you all. Thank you. Yes, we'd like to take this opportunity, Elena Alexiyevna Schulak, to contact your committee, in the following names to write a new name, too, in the title of the decree, so that we can immediately understand what we're renamed. Vitaly Yuriovich, Olena Alexiyevno, I think you can handle this. IFOs have created new ones. "Protection of the rights of families of dead and dead defenders and defenders of Ukraine," the head of this union, National Deputy Marchenko Ludmila Ivanovna. Hello! Interfractional Inter-Parliamentary Union of Humanities Exchanges, the head of the association Jacenko Anatoly Volodymyrovich. And the interfractional MPs' union, "Overcoming the Consequences of Subversives of the Occupy of Kahovsky GES", co-heads of the Zib Tetjana Victorovna merger and the Olena Volodymyrovna Curve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-29-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, the consideration of the agenda for today is complete, thank you all for the fruitful work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session, the time and place of its continuation will be notified to you in advance, and I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We believe in the Ukrainian Defense Force, and together we will conquer the glory of Ukraine!
