ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in the context of the state of war" today, we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I point out that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to abide by the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 589th day of full-scale Russian aggression against our nation. We express our deep appreciation and respect for our defenders and protectors, who, in their daily struggles with racist invaders, heroically advocate the freedom, independence and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Let us bow our heads in silence and honor the exploits of fallen soldiers who sacrificed their lives for Ukraine and its happy future. Lights of memory to peaceful citizens killed as a result of criminal Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes' time to the daytime issues for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Before our colleagues sign up for these performances, I would like to inform you that today is the birthday of our colleague of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leonidivna Klimenko, the Voice faction. Let us welcome the noun and wish her good health, productive work, and new perfection. Julia Leonidina, best of all. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask representatives of the MP factions and groups to sign up. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shevchenk Evgenija Volodymyrovich, deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u2	Good afternoon! That's what I understand, from where I'm standing. Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm worried about one question, we have a budget process ahead of us, and I can see it in the budget that we spend a lot of money not just on a napkin, to build a hole in the yard, when we don't have much order to secure the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And I'm concerned about why we have 24 million dollars in the head of intelligence. Colleagues, please, would you please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, I'm asking for order in the chairman, please. Well, MPs either go to the dining room or let them listen to each other. A question to this budget. [[inexplicable]] We're spending the wrong kind of money again. This is the State Service, 55 billion dollars. You'll excuse me, this is the service that's hampering the economy and hindering the full development of business in Ukraine. When do we finally make a promise to the voters, eliminate this service, and send these funds to GUR? It's all over the budget, I don't know how it's going to be accepted here, it needs to be fully reviewed. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have a simple question before you. And when do we have a finance minister and Dennis Smigal in the hall to ask him a budget question? We were told that there would be Kubrakov today and someone else there, I don't remember any ministers. But the question is, what's going on? You've already heard today that the United States is blocking us with help, Slovakia, said today, Chaputov, that money will not be passed on, they've changed their minds because Fitzo won the election and all that. We're going to have a very big budget problem. And that's why I'm asking just the discussions in the budget room, so that it doesn't, as before, come just to vote, applaud, and nobody even read that budget. And there's so much that you can just boil down and, on top of that, it's for the defense of the country to set up. I have a very request for you. I understand Sergey Vlasenko's distracting something. So there's no one in the Hall more than the Chief of the Supreme Council, and you're just distracting him. I thank you very much, Ruslan Alexiyovich, for listening to me and restoring the time of questions to the government, at last, that we can communicate with them. I'm asking you, let's have a normal budget discussion. 'Cause if there's no help, it's gonna be like this, sorry about the non-parliamentary word, the shit in the country. And they go to the dining room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, Scorch Mikola Leonidovich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u4	Thank you. People's MP Skork, MP for Life and Peace. This week's main issue, which will be before the Supreme Council, is the approval of the budget for the following year. I would like to emphasize once again that our group has decided to support the budget at its meeting. We fully support those priorities that have built state leadership and budgeted the Ministry of Finance, part of the primary priority being defence spending. At the same time, we registered a series of social spending rights. We think that in addition to defense spending, it's a key issue that is facing the country during the war, and in these regulations, it's balanced remedies, of course, we're also predicting increased funding for multi-child families, and increased funding for housing and budgeting for treatment abroad. We consider a particular issue to be the need to put it into the budget, to limit the legislative wages of not only government officials, such as you and me, MPs, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, but also the management of state companies, shareholders. Because it's a very key question and it's causing negatives and distortions in society. I think it's very important this week that we're going to be able to communicate with the government, because there's a lot of issues in budget formation. I believe that the key issue that is being addressed in the budget preparation, in the Budget Code for the Reform of PDF from Local Communities to State, is that there are many risks in this, because, given the administrative and territorial reform that has taken place, there are most of the costs of protecting health, education, and these are the revenues of the first basket that will be spent on this. It will be very important for me tomorrow to ask the Cabinet of Ministers about my native Odessa area, about how to organize the Odessa-Rani route. It's not just a regional route for today, it's a route that supplies oil products and exports grains, and it's a key issue for our nation today. Moreover, I believe that the issue of drought lies ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u5	Please welcome to the word Klimenko Julius Leonidovna, the Voice faction, please, our nominee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u6	Klimenko, the Voice faction. Good afternoon, colleagues! I have one request for you today, perhaps as a birthday present. I have a list, I'm collecting signatures to pass a bill banning the Russian Church in Ukraine. This list, please come to me, maybe who didn't hear, someone I didn't send a letter to, someone didn't get it. But we're asking Mr. Stefanchuk to think about it, we're collecting signatures, and Mr. Stefanchuk and the ruling majority will decide to put these bills into the hall because it's not about religion, it's about a de facto ban on the influence of the Russian FSB and the Russian Church in Ukraine. I want to remind you that we've banned and sanctioned Russian companies, legal entities, state companies, we're confiscating assets. But Ukraine continues to have a huge monster, including a real estate and a serious influence, which is the Russian Church. It is, too, subject to these sanctions, it must also be banned in Ukraine, it has nothing to do with religion. This has nothing to do with Ukraine’s national security. Fellows who want to sign, please come to me, you know where I sit, I will gladly give you the opportunity to sign and be one of those who asks Mr. Stefanchuk and the ruling majority to put these bills into the hall and vote, because two thirds of Ukrainian society, your electorate, requires these bills. Attention! If you represent your constituents, please make sure that these bills are in the hall and show your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u7	Julia Leonidivna, let me sign this address. Thank you. The only thing I want to say is that we can sign 350, but it's not the Head's decision, it's the Conciliation Council. That's why I'm going to find myself. I'm going to sign. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Kubov Stepan Ivanovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u8	Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin, Mr. Head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u9	Please, Sophia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u10	What I cannot understand is why, almost a year and nine months after Moscow’s full-scale invasion, the Supreme Council is unable to put the bill into the hall and vote against the Moscow Church. Perhaps the colleagues will finally welcome Mrs. Julia to her birthday and we will finally consider them in the session hall today, and we will ban this Ephesusn catholic structure, which is the Moscow Church, which has nothing to do with conscience or faith or freedom or honor. I would like to remind you of the figures published today by the Ukrainian Security Service. Of the sixty - eight stalled priests and metropolises of the Moscow Church, they were not only involved in treason, but they were engaged in the arms trade and child pornography. Colleagues in the hall, do you support the arms trade and the distribution of child pornography? So why don't we have a day-to-day bill on banning, eliminating the Moscow Church and breaking up any contact with Moscow? Moscow’s poplars used rockets to target our cities and villages. Moscow’s bishops hand out weapons in churches to Moscow’s terrorists. Moscow’s pops still refuse to sing our dead defenders. Question: do you support all of this? Do you tolerate all of this? If you don't, please sign immediately under the call for a non-commissioned session, under the delivery of drafts that eliminate the Moscow Church. We have Bill 8221, which prohibits the Moscow Church on the basis of all possible human rights conventions, referring to the issue of national security. And that will give us an opportunity to ban it. All right, bring those other government toothless projects into the hall. The Cylons are asking, the Security Service is asking, and the Supreme Council is cramming to protect Moscow church murderers. I would like to remind the majority that today, without a vote, without passing drafts to the session room banning the Moscow Church, you are establishing President Zelenski. Because it is here that he said from this rostrum on Constitution Day that we must get rid of the spiritual dependence on the Church of Moscow. So are you disrespecting your leader, Vladimir Zelensky, or do you care, or maybe someone is giving you instructions from the President's Office? If not, the draft legislation prohibiting the Moscow Church should be here today, in the session hall, voted and soon adopted as a basis and as a whole. Otherwise, as Vasil Simonenko said, all those who defend the Moscow Church are the "strakes of the Cats of the Ostane." Because only such people can protect Putin and his Ephesian structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u11	The word is given to Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, a group called "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen of the peoples, the honorable Presidium, the people of Ukraine! In these days, we have honored our famous defenders and defenders of Ukraine, celebrated the growing power of the Ukrainian territorial defence force, and the MPs' group "Trust" first expresses their respect and respect for the address of those who defend our freedom, independence and sovereignty today. We all expect, of course, the successful actions of our Armed Forces to free occupied territories, but we understand that all the necessary ingredients must be provided. And it's clear that the Trust MPs support the government's budget-making initiatives for the next year, in part of the priority, to direct funds to the security and defence sectors, to buy modern weapons and all the necessary components for our army, are meant for mines, missiles, drones and everything that is necessary today for an effective, modern war. At the same time, we note that the draft budget for the following year should still be balanced. It is important not to forget that much of the funds that allowed them to develop are planned to be removed from the budgets of the territorial communities. So today we need to take care of territorial communities that are unable to provide for themselves. Today, we are talking about the full scope of government social programs, especially those relating to the support of vulnerable groups, such as large - scale families, children, and elderly citizens. And in the draft budget, we need to work very hard not to lower social standards. Therefore, it seems totally incomprehensible and unreasonable to take the initiative to have a rule in the budget that the courts decide to set the amount of 1,000,600 dollars as a minimum wage. How can this be when, at the same time in the same budget, we set the social standard as 7,000 and more than the minimum wage? So at this point, we need to work very carefully on this. Such standards of a thousand 600 dollars should not be, they should be removed, or they should be changed. So let's work very carefully on the budget and accept it in a balanced way. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u13	Please give the floor to roadside Andriy Viktorovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u14	Thank you. Please pass the word to Alexia Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u15	Please give me your word. Alexei Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, since July of this year, Ukraine has acceded to the international standards for automatic communication of financial accounts. The first exchange of information between the tax services is scheduled for September 24. This means that the following year, for certain categories of our citizens who have found refuge abroad because of the war, the situation will change significantly. They will be obliged to declare and tax their foreign income in Ukraine. So right now, we need to do a thorough analysis of how the exchange of financial accounts information will affect certain categories of our citizens, as well as start an appropriate explanatory work. On the one hand, we have to report to every citizen who has gone through a war abroad and has received assistance from a foreign state budget, that such assistance is not taxed in Ukraine, and that assistance does not even need declaration. Please, our Foreign Ministry, pay attention to this issue and activate the work of informing our fellow citizens. No speculation or manipulation on this issue should be allowed. On the other hand, we need to look at the potential problems of our Ukrainians who find official work abroad. The requirements of countries for the declaration of refugee income vary from country to country: in some countries, the requirement to pay taxes at the place of residence, even from Ukrainian incomes, to other states that have granted shelter to Ukrainians, to pay only local taxes. There is no single practice, but as a result of the automatic exchange of information between taxpayers, there is an increasing risk to our refugees of double taxation, especially for those who already have jobs abroad and still have economic activity in Ukraine. I believe that the solution to this problem should be the State Tax Service and the Supreme Council’s Committee of Profiles. For starters, we can create an inter-agency working group that will analyse the situation and propose legislative initiatives that will avoid double taxation for our Ukrainians. But we must consider that many issues will not be solved only by means of Ukrainian legal action. This is a big challenge for the team, especially the Ministry of Economics. There is still time, but it takes maximum mobilization to protect the interests of our Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u17	Please, Batenko Taras Ivanovich, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, we are continuing the budgetary process with you today. First of all, we welcome the fact that in the bill of amendments to the State Budget for 2023 we see an increase in expenditures for defence purposes significantly. And what we see is that the government has taken into account the amendments to the state authorities, which have nothing to do with the defence sector, particularly the Bureau of Economic Security, which obviously has not justified its expectations, it's all commendable. However, in the context of the review of the resource base of different levels next year, we call for a balanced approach to this issue so as not to overturn all the achievements of our decentralization, which was formed in Ukraine before the war. Because local budgets that have been cut off will not be able to carry out their mandates, will not be able to increase their self - worth, and will be able to support our defenders. We need to keep that in mind, my friends. We need to look for additional opportunities to increase the income of the state budget without damaging the independence of local communities. And such bills are in Parliament. For example, we welcome the legislative initiative to introduce additional taxation on bank income, which we have been talking about for a long time, which has increased significantly this year, during the war. I'm convinced that after some redrafting, we would have voted in this Parliament without delay. Colleagues, of course, we're concerned about the different news coming from abroad, and we, like fellow Marjorie MPs, are following them the same way. We are counting on Ukraine to continue to rely on the two-party support of the United States. We hope that no elections there or we will underestimate the essence of the struggle for freedom and democracy, so close to America, and so close to the Ukrainian defenders. Ukraine should be guaranteed by its allies, because it is not just our war and it is not just the war of the Ukrainian people against the invaders. In fact, Ukraine protects the values of the Western world against dictatorship, which places monuments on bloody dictator Joseph Stalin and wants to undo all the achievements of modern civilization. And we're also looking at statements by the U.S.S.A. saying that more than 60 UPCs (Moscow Patriarchate) have recently been exposed, who have been kidnapping people who have been selling weapons, and these violent cases can't go unresponsive. That's why we think that society has matured to the issue of banning the Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine, the main thing is that it doesn't mature and this indignant cauldron doesn't tear the lid off that canine. So there's the idea that after 226 votes, we should immediately bring this matter to the session room and vote in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one wants to speak again? Everybody here? The "fatherland" didn't just sign up for it, I think. From Fatherland, who will be speaking? Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, I get it right, don't I? Please, Julia Volodymyrna, and this will be the final performance by factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u20	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I think that we are all in this room thinking that one of the key priorities today and the task of the state, parliament, government, everyone in power today is to make it impossible to give our wounded military-grade, highly skilled medical care that can allow our wounded heroes and heroes to return to normal life. I can tell you that not everything is as good in the injury treatment system as we would like with you. And so a temporary commission of inquiry has been set up, including representatives, to deputize all factions, this commission is not designed to punish anyone, to find any abuse, to bring someone to justice. This commission is designed solely to strengthen all systems of medical care for the people who have followed us, Ukraine, to give their lives for our people. And I'd like to go to Parliament today, and we're looking at the changes to the budget for this year, and in a few days we're going to be looking at the budget for the year 24, I'm asking all the national deputies to join in to increase funding for all the aid systems for our wounded. This is also on the line of the Ministry of Defence at the hospital, which is also on the line of the National Health Service of Ukraine and on the line of the Ministry of Health. We need to make sure that the provision of medical care to the wounded is flawless. And that's our job with you. Besides, I'm addressing all the deputies now. You communicate in your districts, in your areas with hospitals, in hospitals, in hospitals, in hospitals, in hospitals, in hospitals, in case you see that Parliament can help organize a system of treatment and rehabilitation for the wounded, give us this knowledge so that we can include these issues in the work of a temporary commission of inquiry. Also, MPs who are ready to join the TSC today will hold the first offline session at 4:30 a.m. Please join us. Because the people who went to the front to defend us are looking at us and asking if they're our priority or not. Let's make sure we can look them in the eye.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. Thank you. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I propose to hold a signal vote before the question begins. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and hold these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, please take part in the signal vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:36:55]] For-154 154 in, 5 in, 1 in, holding. Everything as usual. Dear colleagues, once again, I appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question of parliamentary inquiries. Please, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u22	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Seventy-five parliamentary inquiries were made to announce the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of these, 12 to the President of Ukraine, 3 to the Supreme Council, 17 to the Cabinet of Ministers, 37 to the heads of other public authorities and local self-government bodies, to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of ownership, 6. We're going to read the questions first, and then there's going to be a presidential vote, then. Let's read it first. First we read it, then we vote. So the MP's questions are: Bogdan Thorochti to the minister of agrarian politics and food for Ukraine regarding the issue of defence of military-bound workers. Vladimir Kradenka to the Head of the State Security Service of Ukraine for the clarification of information provided in response to the parliamentary request from 20.07.2023 No. 119d9/114-2023/1588238 (declared at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 10.08.2023). Dmitra Razumkova to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on expenses to cover the deployment of Ukrainian national deputies. Groups of National Deputies (Klimpush-Cincadze, Heratchenko and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the amount of budget spent for overseas missions. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionov to the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the use of measures to include senior soldier Marcenko Maxime Viktorovich in the A3002 Military Lists, to pay him the proper money, to conduct a service investigation into the corresponding command of the designated military. Alexia Hotcharenko to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for information. Dmitry Kisilevski to the State Agency for Reconstruction and Infrastructure Development of Ukraine on the provision of information on instruments for automatic fixing of weight control. Igora Krivosheeva to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the number of real diplomatic passports in Ukraine. Vladimir Kradenka to the Head of the State Agency for Reconstruction and Development of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Acting Head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine, temporarily Acting Head of the State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, on the provision of information on the status of implementation of Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No.280 of 24 March 2023, "Some issues for managing crossing points across the state border for road transport". Dmitra Razumkova to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the activities of the online casino PIN-UP. Dmitra Razumkova to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the payment of the salaries to military personnel. Alexander Tkachenka and Antonina Slavicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the use of effective measures to ensure the protection of forest land in the Odessa area. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head on the provision of information and copies of documents regarding the appointment of the Director of the Community Enterprise Umanvodokal of the Uman City Council of Tereshuk Sergey Valeriyovich. Anton Yatzenka to the head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service to provide information on the fullness of the collection and payment of taxes and collections by the private company Phenix Agro during the years 2019-2020. Valery of Gnatenka and Vladimir Moroz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the implementation of the programme of an existing monitoring system in the Kharkiv region. Alexander Bakumova to the Kharkiv City Head for the protection of the environmental rights of Ukrainian citizens, the inhabitants of the territorial community of Kharkiv. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Klimpus-Cincadze and others, only 4 deputies) to the Director-General of the Society with limited responsibility "Teleradia 1+1" regarding the provision of information on the participation of Šufrich Nestor Ivanovic in the programmes and broadcasts of the channel led by you in 2021-2022. Irina Friz to Kharkiv City Head on the issue of the grant to persons who are worthy of the title "Honorous Citizen of the City of Kharkiv". Groups of National Deputies (Fedina, Fries and others, only 5 deputies) to the Attorney-General on the use of response measures to verify the ownership of owners and co-workers of Ukraine’s television channels until the proliferation of the pro-Russian narratives by the Ukrainian national deputy Sufrich Nestor Ivanovic during his appearances on television channels on the eve of a full-scale Russian invasion into Ukraine (from 2020 to 2022). Groups of National Deputies (Klimpush-Cincadze, Heratchenko and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the Director-General of the Society with limited responsibility of Teleradi Corporation "Study 1+1", the Head of the Government of the Private Shareholder Society "INTER" regarding the provision of information on the creation of content for the Telarafone "The Only News #UAraz" and the use of funds from the National Budget of Ukraine. Anton Yatzenk to the Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine for information on the appointment and payment of the pension. Anton Yatzenk to the Director of the Communal Enterprise "BLAGODA" of the Palan Rural Council of the Ummanski district of Cherkas region for information on the asset holder – a well of material rural water supply. Alexander Jurchenk to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the listing of the Agreements concluded by Ukraine, the party to which is the Russian Federation and/or the Republic of Belarus. Alexander Tkachenka and Antonina Slavicki to the Attorney General on the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Alexander Tkachenka to the Attorney General on the use of effective response measures to conduct a proper criminal investigation. Alexander Tkachenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the activities of the National Natural Park "Tuzlovské limans". Alexander Tkachenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal alienation of land in the Odessa region. Alexander Tkachenka and Antonina Slavicki to the Attorney General on the need to take effective action to conduct a proper trial. Alexander Jurchenka to the Head of the Board of Shareholders of the National Savings Bank of Ukraine, Director-General of the Association of Stockholders for the consideration of the restoration of the operation of the Stock Exchange branch of the Savings and the expansion of the staff of the Shareholders Department in the village of Red Freedom of the Cherkas region of the Cherkas region. Alexander Jurchenka to Shirgorod City Head of the Jmerinsky District of Vinnitsk for the name of the street in honor of Private Burczak Alexander Petrovic. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head on the provision of information and copies of documents regarding the activities of officials of the Umman City Council during June and September 2023. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head for providing information on the number of military-bound citizens of municipal enterprises, institutions and organizations of the Umman City Council, its structural units (offices and offices) that are banned for a period of mobilization and time of war. Anton Yatzenka to the head of the Cerka District Council for the provision of information and copies of supporting documents regarding the provision of one-time financial assistance to citizens at the expense of the district budget for 2022, 2023 years. Groups of national deputies (Lozinski, Pippa, and others) A total of 9 deputies) to the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, to honor the Air Force of the Armed Sid of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Losinian, Goose, and others) A total of 8 deputies) to the head of the Selidian City Military Administration of the Croat area of the Donetsk region to honor the defenders of Ukraine in the symbolic space of Donetskina. Groups of National Deputies (Efimova, Yakovenka, Moroza) to the Head of the National Commission, which administers national regulation in the fields of electronic communications, radio spectrum and postal services to provide information on the total number of active mobile users as at 00:00 on September 15, 2023, throughout Ukraine and separately in the temporarily uncontrollable areas of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Efimova, Yakovenka and Moroza) to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding the use of funds received by Ukraine from foreign banks and international financial organizations. Groups of National Deputies (Ephimow, Jacob, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to amend the procedure for granting compensation for the restoration of separate categories of immovable property damaged by hostilities, terrorist acts, diversions caused by the Russian Federation's armed aggression, using the electronic public service "e-Restoration" to exercise the right of entities to manage multiple-house houses to obtain compensation for damage to property of the general use of a multi-room building. Vladimir Kradenka to the Deputy Prime Minister for the Restoration of Ukraine, Minister of Development of the Communities, Territories and Infrastructure of Ukraine, on providing information on the results of the work programme on the reconstruction of housing "eResurrection", namely on the number of applications for financial assistance and the number of refusals to contribute to financial assistance (in the section of the districts, OTG and localities). Eugenia Shevchenka to the Minister for Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, the Attorney General, on the baseless pressure on strategic fisheries management by public authorities. Artema Cnermoorova to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the situation in the city of South Ukraine. Bogdan Thorochti to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine in the year 2022 and the first half of 2023. Dmitry Kisilevski to the Secretary of the Crimson City Council, the performer of the duties of the Crimson City Head to provide information and documents on the means of transport purchased. Alexander Tkachenka and Antonina Slavicka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the use of measures to secure the income of local budgets. Alexander Tkachenka, Antonina Slavicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the use of immediate response measures to ensure the proper financing of government salaries. Romana Ivanisov, under the temporary responsibility of the Director-General of the state-owned agricultural enterprise "The Woods of Ukraine" to provide information on the level of pay paid by the management of the state-owned enterprise "The Forests of Ukraine". Vladimir Moroz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the review of the draft Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decision "Some questions about the conduct of a survey of the destroyed separate categories of immovable property objects located in the temporary communities located in the area of military (military) activities or in temporary occupation, surrounding (blocking)". Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kasaya, Kabanova) to the head of the Tokmatka City Military Administration of the Pologna Region of Zaporozhye on the size of salaries, allowances and bonuses paid or paid to officials of the Tokmat city military administration of the Polosov region of Zaporez Region. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kasaya, Kabanova) to the head of the Tokmatka City Military Administration of the Pologov Region of Zaporez Region for information on the extent to which public purchases of goods, jobs, services and revenue and expenditure have been made by the Tokmak City Military Administration and the Tokmak City Council. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kasaya, Kabanova) to the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine on the implementation of the State Financial Control of the purchases carried out by the Tokmak City Council. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kasaya, Kabanova) to the head of the Berdian City Military Administration of the Berdjan district of Zaporozhye district regarding the salaries, allowances and bonuses paid (paid) to the officials of the Berdjan City Military Administration. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kasaya, Kabanova) to the head of the Primorski City Military Administration of the Berdjan Region of Zaporozhye on the size of salaries, allowances and bonuses paid (paid) to officials of the Primorski City Military Administration. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kasaya, Kabanova) to the head of the Primorski City Military Administration of the Berdjan Region of Zaporez Region for information on the extent to which public purchases of goods, jobs, services and revenue and expenditure were made by the Primorski City Military Administration. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Kasaya, Kabanova) to the head of the Berdian City Military Administration of the Berdjan region of Zaporozhye district on information on the extent to which public purchases of goods, jobs, services and revenues and expenses were made by the Berdjan City Military Administration and the Berdjan City Council. These are all the questions that have been addressed in writing. We can now move on to the vote of requests to the President of Ukraine. Please, people's deputies, we're taking our seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, and we will proceed to the request of the President of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u24	Please, Your Honor, take your seats. So I'm putting to the vote a motion for previous support of the MP's request to the President of Ukraine to appeal to the leadership of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for the pardon of Alexander Garmo-Rishi. From Roman Costenko. Please vote. [[11:52:35.]] For 262 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:52:59]] For 261 Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Thank you. I would like to vote on the proposal for a parliamentary request by Alexander Gorenyuk to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the title Hero of Ukraine to the roadside Alexia Mikolayovich (death). Please vote. [[11:53:39]] For-286 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:54:04]] For 293 Decision taken. I am voting for a proposal to support a preliminary request to President Solomonia Bobrowski of Ukraine regarding the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine (after death) to the deputy squadron commander of the air force A0959 Major Reddekina Taras Viktorovich. Please vote. [[11:54:42]] For 296 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please, let's vote. [[11:55:05]] For 294 Decision taken. I am voting for a motion for previous support of the MP's request to the President of Ukraine, Boris Pridjick, for the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine to Colonel Kushner Mikoli Ivanovich, commander of the military force for support of the Ukrainian Armed Forces A3160. Please vote. [[11:55:41]] For 296 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please, let's vote. [[11:56:03]] For 296 Decision taken. I am voting in favour of a proposal for previous support of the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine, Yulia Yatzik, for the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine, Kazanji Alexandro Alexandrovich (died). Please vote. [[11:56:35]] For 295 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:56:57]] For 295 Decision taken. I am voting in favour of a proposal for the preliminary support of the parliamentary request to President Anton Yatzenk of Ukraine for a deliberate and deliberate failure to comply with the President's requirement that local budgets be allocated primarily for defence purposes, systematic cases of inappropriate and unwarranted military conditions, allocate funds to the local budget of the Uman City District of Cherkas region for the needs that are not related to ensuring the security of the State and the need for immediate use of response measures. Please vote. [[11:57:47]] For 215 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:58:10]] For 169 The decision is not taken. Next. I am voting for a proposal to support a preliminary request to the President of Ukraine by a group of national deputies (Losinski, Heratchenko and others). A total of 16 deputies) to give the 40th Brigade tactical aviation the honorary designation of the Ghost of Kiev. Please vote. [[11:58:48]] For 270. Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:59:11]] For 277 Decision taken. I am voting for a proposal to support a previous request to the President of Ukraine by a group of national deputies (Mandia, Pushkarenka and others). A total of 40 deputies) on the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine to the Armed Forces of Ukraine to the Chernicki Andri Leonidovich (died). Please vote. [[11:59:48]] For 289 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:00:10]] For 290 Decision taken. I am voting for a proposal to support a previous request to the President of Ukraine by a group of national deputies (Mandia, Pushkarenka and others). A total of 38 deputies) on the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine to the military officer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Kramar Dmitry Valeriyovich (died). Please vote. [[12:00:46]] For 289 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:01:10]] For 288 Decision taken. Next, dear colleagues. I am voting for a proposal to advance the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine for a group of national deputies (Kostenka, Mokana and others). A total of 21 deputies) for the assignment of Major General Marchenk Dmitry Alexanderovich to the name Hero of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:01:45]] For 281 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. Vote. [[12:02:08]] For 272 Decision taken. I'm voting on a proposal for previous support of the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine, Artem Černomorov, for the assignment of the honorary title "Deserved Doctor of Ukraine" Masko Andrija Mikolajovich. Please vote. [[12:02:38]] For 247 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:03:00]] For 237 Decision taken. And the final question. I'm voting on a motion for previous support of the MP's request to President Roman Lozinski of Ukraine for the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine (after death) to the 11th Company of the 46th Special Aeromobile Brigade Vladislav Palenicz. Please vote. [[12:03:40]] For 288 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:04:05]] For 281 Decision taken. We've made all the inquiries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u25	Thank you, Olena Kostvena. Dear colleagues, the Conciliation Council agreed on the proposal for an invitation and presentation today at the plenary meeting of Ukrainian Finance Minister Marcenka Sergey Mihajlovich, Ukrainian Defence Minister Umerova Rustem Enverovich, Ukrainian Minister of Strategic Industry, Kamishina Aleksandra Mikolajovic, prior to the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2023, on the financial security and defence sector, and on the first-line issues (Registration No. 10038) and the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter VI of the Ukraine Budget Code on Security and Development of the Defence and Industrial Complex of Ukraine (Registration No. 10037). Dear colleagues, according to. From the procedure? Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u26	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, the request during this vote should also be taken into account so that these ministers can be asked questions in the Parliament Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u27	No, come on, they asked for a speech, so I'll make my offer if I can. And we'll ask you tomorrow, you'll have a chance, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part three of article 6, part two of article 34 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, put to the vote the proposal to invite the finance minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Minister of Strategic Industry of Ukraine, to give them the floor to speak within 5 minutes each before considering the draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for 2023 on the financial security and defence sector and first-line issues (registration No. 10038) and the draft Act amending Chapter VI of the Ukraine Budget Code to ensure the protection of the State and the development of the defence and industrial complex of Ukraine (registration No. 10037). Dear colleagues, please vote to invite the ministers with a speech in five minutes. Please vote. [[12:06:31]] For 263 Please. Again with the procedure? Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u28	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I ask you to put an offer on the vote room so that we can ask each of these ministers and allocate 12 minutes for each minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u29	I'm sorry, it's a procedure. I'm going to make this suggestion: I'm going to ask every minister a question for 12 minutes. Dear colleagues, please make up your mind. [[12:07:19]] For-147 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Let's move on. Dear colleagues. Show the factions, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council has been given to you, and we are moving on to its consideration. For your consideration, Your Honor, Bill 10063 is an alternative to 10063-1. I'm proposing to include these issues in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:08:03]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to suggest that we consider these issues in a simplified manner, we agree, two, two, against, on the Conciliation Council. Please vote. [[12:08:29]] For the 220. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and so on these bills I ask you to register factions and groups: two in favour, two in favour, and then we vote. Please sign in, Your Honor. The word is given to National Deputy Laby Mikhail Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u30	Good afternoon, dear colleagues and respectable ones. I'd like you to pass it on to Frolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u31	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Frolo. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u32	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We are now considering a very important bill that applies to thousands of Ukrainian families. You know, according to experts' estimates, 19,000 housing units have been destroyed by the Russian Federation, if with private buildings, these are tens of thousands of buildings, 87 million homes destroyed or damaged. In order to address these issues, the Supreme Council adopted a law in April of this year on compensation for damaged and damaged housing. In line with this year's programme, the government budget provides 4.4 billion dollars. By that date, 18,000 Ukrainian families had received the cost of repairs and building materials. But that's within 200 thousand dollars. Work is being done to increase the payment of damages to 500,000 dollars. And he's already working in Acts, and he can apply for a completely ruined apartment. Already 100 residence certificates have been generated in Action, and payment may begin in November. And this bill is intended to compensate people for the work they have already done. That is, if they were not waiting for help from the State but had already repaired their homes, the bill provided for the directing of funds from the State budget to compensate people. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, Iris Irina Vasilovna, the faction of European Solidarity. Goncharenko. Do I get it right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u35	Alexei Hotcharenko. We will certainly support this bill, because we need to help people get money, make housing, because how much trouble there is in the country. Just, you know, what's the point of that? Now we are going to pass the law, and who is going to do it? Who's really going to give that money? You and I have already passed a bill exactly six months ago on the return of the 30 to all military personnel, all of them. What? Locked in by the speaker, not signed by the president, has not entered into force. We've got money. We pay 860 dollars a month for a child. We have thrown out, just thrown out sick and wounded military personnel outside the state get 500, 600, 700 dollars a month. Everybody doesn't care. The railways and the medics, no one gets anything, no matter what. What's the money for? To the drums, to the show, to the asphalt to steal it. I'm telling you, they don't care. It doesn't matter to the servants, they have their lives, they order their lives in Dubai, or in Thailand, the hotels, they keep talking about themselves and they'll disappear, we'll try to wake them up. Okay. I'll try to wake you up a little bit because you weren't listening. Do you know why I found money for the government? The Ukrainian Minister’s Office for Teachers’ Day awarded a permanent scholarship to Green Alexander Seminovich, the father of Ukrainian President Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski. Is this the very poor person in Ukraine? No soldiers, no children, no Vladimir Alexanderovich and his family? The End of the Age of Poverty? Is that it? What's next? Is the president going to give himself a hero from Ukraine? Shame! Will you stop? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u36	The word is given to national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u37	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, it is clear that the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill. A wonderful initiative that says that we should change the form of compensation for the loss of housing. Tens of thousands of Ukrainian families were left homeless as a result of Russian aggression, as a result of terrorist attacks, as a result of multiple attacks and the various bad things carried out by the Russian Federation. If we're talking about the form of compensation, it's obvious that the legislators have very faithfully prescribed what is needed for those who claim compensation as a result of the destruction of their homes through a terrorist or rocket attack, or a diversion, to receive such compensation in a special account, and to rebuild their housing. It is also offered to those who, on their own account, have also received the same problem as a result of a terrorist attack, a rocket attack, a diversion, if he has already applied his money. compensation also to pay back the money that was spent. At the same time, I would like to point out to you, fellow honourable Members, that the "Fatherland" faction was filed a month ago with Bill 9612, which prohibits the taxation of such compensations. Unfortunately, the "Fatherland" Bill 9612 was filed a month before this bill, and we don't see it in the agenda. But it is essential because all those who receive compensation must be exempt from taxation. We support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u38	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Ukraine Slavicki Antonini Kerimovni, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u39	Good afternoon! I'd like to ask your colleague, Mr. Morozov Volodymyr, to pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u40	Vladimir Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! I am the author of the Alternative Law 10063 and not only the author, but I am also from the territory where our infrastructure and our people have not yet received a single copy of compensation. The main project really has an important proposal, such as the payment of money for repairing damaged housing, which citizens have already made at their own expense. This is about both building materials and services. At the same time, Project 10063 does not cover a huge layer that needs to be resolved. The alternative project focuses further on owners of residential property that was destroyed in a combat zone or in a temporarily occupied area. Today, I recall that about a fifth of our nation is occupied. The citizens who owned housing here deserve to be given housing certificates under the "I'm Retirement" program. They will be able to use it for the purchase of an apartment, another apartment, a building of garden type, a garden or a building. The parliamentary group "Deliverance of Ukraine" is calling for the support of the alternative bill itself, 10063-1, because it covers more fully the affected categories of our fellow citizens. Once again, I would like to remind you that I am from that territory, cities such as Marinka, like Krasnogorovka, like neighboring villages. These territories are destroyed, and people are still receiving no compensation. And that's why this Law is 10063.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u42	Please, Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u43	Dear Mr. Head, the people's deputies, it is clear that we support this fine proposal to extend the possibilities of compensation for our Ukrainians for unfortunately destroying their homes as a result of the Kremlin's armed aggression. And it saddens us that thousands of families have been homeless as a result of the war, but it is far worse when in recent decades millions of Ukrainians have unfortunately suffered from a violation of their minds of the situation, of the imaginations that have been disrupted by religious organizations, of Kremlin religious organizations. More than 200 signatures have already been collected here in the hall. That's why we call for a bill to be put to the voting room banning the Kremlin's Moscow Patriarchate in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone has spoken, who wants to? I'm out of procedure. Uncluded, please, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u45	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, we are discussing a bill, discussing compensation for damage to housing as a result of the war. Some colleagues, however, use this time to put dirt on the hup, including their parents. I think it's unacceptable because, first of all, he doesn't know the man himself, Alexander Semenovich of Green. The man is worthy, he's a doctor of science, he's a professor who raised thousands of people, he's got dozens or hundreds of businesses working on his programs in our country. Thousands of worthy students who occupy a decent place in our society. Its programs have been running for fifty years, and it has been operating in Mongolia. And that's what he calls it, don't listen to him, it's a hip, and it's an instigator that's tearing the country apart. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, prepare for the vote. I'm making a proposal, and I'm proposing to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Compensation for Damage and Destruction of Certain Real Property Objects as a result of War, Terrorist Acts, Diversions Caused by the Armed Aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, and the State Register of Property Damaged and Destroyed by War, Terrorist Acts, Diversions Caused by the Armed Aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine (Registration No. 10063). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:21:39]] For 309 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I must ask. The committee’s decision was based on the whole as well. Is there no objection to voting on the basis of this bill as a whole? Is there a denial? Show the factions because I don't understand what you're talking about. Is there any comment about voting on this bill as a whole? Who's against it? Can we do it in general? Dear colleagues, if there's no objection. Does that mean there's no objection or not? There's a denial. Dear colleagues, can we vote in general? Let's vote in general. The committee’s decision was based on the whole as well. No more objections? None. Then I bet on the vote, dear colleagues. I propose the adoption as a whole of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Compensation for Damage and Destruction of Certain Real Estate Objects as a result of Combating Acts, Terrorist Acts, Diversions Caused by the Armed Aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, and the State Register of Property Damaged and Destroyed by Hostilities, Terrorist Acts, Diversions Caused by the Armed Aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine (Registration No. 10063). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:23:25]] For 310 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we've agreed no further discussion, so please be in your seats and I'm announcing a bill immediately. Bill 10039, this is a bill amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine to simplify the procedure for the write-off of military property. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:24:11]] For 309 Decision taken. I propose to adopt Law 10039 as the basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:24:33]] For 313 Decision taken. I propose that the draft Law amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine be adopted as a whole with a view to simplifying the write-off procedure for military property (registration number 10039). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:25:10]] For 302 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, next one without discussion. This is bill of registration number 6393-d. This is a bill amending some laws of Ukraine to prevent violence and to prevent child abuse. I'm proposing to adopt the bill's registration number 6393-d. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:25:55]] For 313 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's cut the lines, maybe before we get to second reading? I'm proposing to shorten the deadlines for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading just adopted on the basis of Bill 6393-d. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:26:27]] For 284 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill is also uncontested, 9666. Let's vote for the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:27:05]] For 299 Decision taken. One second. Engineer, please come in. Andrew Viktorovich! Andrew Viktorovich Motovlovec, come here, please. Dear colleagues, one second. Dear colleagues. As we talked about, there's only one acting -- everybody's speaking, right? That's why we put him here as one that's out of the question. Dear colleagues. We're in the middle of a day's work, aren't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u47	We turned it on, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u48	It's on. Dear colleagues, the factions have agreed that just on the basis, and then on to the second reading, I think we will conduct all the necessary dialogues, all the necessary things. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the totality of the State Special Liaison and Information Protection Service of Ukraine (registration number 9666). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:29:12]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, look, I'm just going to explain the logic behind the order of the day. Today we have two important bills, 38th and 37th. We put forward those who agreed on factions and groups that would not be discussed so that we could quickly vote. Once again, factions and groups form the order of the day. If we knew that the faction claimed that it would be discussed, this bill would not be here, your honorary colleagues. Let's move on. Please deal with the faction. Okay? 9088: Draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code on Enhancing the Effectiveness of the Functioning of the Institution of Officials Responsible for the Preservation of Detainees and Detainees. We agreed, too, without discussion. Therefore, I immediately propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to increase the efficiency of the institution of officials responsible for the stay of detainees and persons taken into custody (registration No. 9088). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:30:44.]] For 313 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, according to our decision, we agreed before considering the 10038 bill to give the floor to three of our ministers in five minutes. So I would like to invite you, dear colleagues. Who's our first? Minister of Finance Marcenko Sergey Mihajlovich Please. Dear colleagues, can we just listen to the minister? Not to start right away, but to listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u49	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, I'm asking for a few minutes of your attention. I have these on paper, of course, but I want to talk about where we are, and I want to talk to you frankly, because we're in a rather difficult situation right now. Let's think about 2022 and how you and I have consistently decided to support the security and defence sector. I want to remind you that we have made five changes to the State Budget, and these decisions have been supported by the Supreme Council on the basis and in general. Yeah, there were, of course, questions, yes, there were, of course, discussions, but, excuse me, thousands of rights no one registered. Who do you want to discipline? I'm sorry, I don't understand this approach. I don't understand why some factions that say they're armed forces are registering thousands of rights. What do you think these are, some kind of enigma? Do you think we came up with this ourselves, and what did we do to change the budget? I'm telling you, at the beginning of the year, no one knows what the number of Armed Forces is going to be, because we have a great war. No one knows how many ammunition, tanks we need. You're asking me how the Minister of Finance manages this? We're borrowing 19 percent, we're directing crazy money, we're now targeting the security and defense sectors. And you register thousands of rights. Why? Who needs to explain something, I don't understand. Why do you create a problem where it's not supposed to be? I want to tell you something else. I submitted the draft changes to the budget on September 20, and it's been two weeks, two weeks, to discuss the issue. The price of the question is one day, it costs us the security and defense sector 5 billion dollars. You've been waiting for two weeks and you think it's going to blow? It won't disintegrate. Since October 10th, we have nothing to pay for some units. Do you understand that? And if you take that question longer, the whole sector will get up and they'll just come and ask you why you didn't make that decision. So I ask you very much, and I urge you, if you can say so, please support the government bills. With respect to PDF and redirection. We're looking for balanced solutions. You can see the situation in the world. It could be that we're only going to count on our resources at all. Are you ready for this discussion? I can see it's not much, but it's complicated decisions. And when we say, look, the formed surpluses, they have to be diverted to the sector, you're telling me what the problem is because there is. But there are problems in everyone, but these problems have their price, the price of borrowing our huge, and that's for future generations. And now we need to channel funds to the security and defense sectors. And I very much ask you not to speculate on these issues, but to support the government bills 10037 and 10038. Please. And please let's make decisions together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u50	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I have a word with you. One second, the speakers we invited first voted in a protocol decision. You're not a minister. Dear colleagues, I invite you to speak with the Minister of Defense of Ukraine Umerov Rustem Enverovich. Please, Rustem Enverovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u51	Good afternoon, everyone! Dear colleagues, today our soldiers need our greatest support. One such support that we can provide today is to increase the spending of the Ministry of Defence by 211 billion over the last three months of this year. This money will be used to provide for the needs of the Armed Forces, including the financial security of military personnel, the assistance of families of the dead, and the purchase of arms. The adoption of such changes in the first decade of October is vital. In the Ministry of Defense, the available funds for October are only available for the payment of monthly cash, and payment of additional wage for participation in and maintenance of hostilities will be possible only after appropriate changes have been made to the budget. Another sensitive topic is the payment of one-time cash assistance in the execution and injury of a military officer. Costs in October are not available at all. So now is the deadline for monthly payments to the families of the deceased, a portion of the right amount of over 2 billion. We're also working on the applicants' September papers for the first payment of 4.5 billion. At the same time, it should be pointed out that, according to the Genstalge of the Armed Forces, the available number of weapons and military equipment is insufficient to meet the minimum need for defence forces and does not allow the full range of military tasks, including those determined by the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Thus, the additional resources included in the bill are not sufficient to meet the needs of defence forces by the end of the year. Thus, only 13 billion — or 4 percent — are available for the purchase of weapons, military equipment, and ammunition. In this decision, the Office of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Defence is tasked with ensuring offensive action and protecting critical infrastructure. And we need to put in place a critical range of rockets into the rocket systems of fire, artillery munitions of various calibres, anti-tank missile complexes and anti-tank missile complexes, drones and other military equipment to meet the urgent needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. There are also many issues that remain unresolved, but we are working on it. Therefore, taking into account the above, it is proposed that the bill be supported and that work be continued to provide adequate protection for the defence forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u52	Thank you. The word is given to Minister of Strategic Industries of Ukraine Kamishin Alexandr Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u53	I wish you health, distinguished national MPs! This year has shown that the domestic defence and industrial complex is capable of rapidly increasing the production of military equipment. In nine months we have increased the production of artillery and mortar ammunition and antitank missile complexes. We have significantly increased the production of domestic drones, and we also have our native long - range weapons. We've started the production of the nato standard cannons. But that's not enough. We see that the enemy is investing billions in the production of weapons and military technology, and we are grateful to our partners for all the help they have given us, but we need to increase our own production. Ukraine needs to increase its production capacity significantly. And it's about restocking production, developing new technologies, opening joint ventures with Western partners. Last week, under the auspices of the President of Ukraine, we held the first International Forum of Defense Industries. We have seen that foreign colleagues from the defence industry are ready to start talking about the organization of production in Ukraine. This is evidenced by more than 20 of the different levels signed between Ukrainian and foreign companies. We have the first joint production arrangements from the United States, in fact the creation of a new industrial ecosystem that will strengthen both Ukraine and America, and all of our partners. We started what we've been talking about for years, the reform of the Ucroborprom. We transformed the state concert into a stock company, created the first profile subholding. We're giving a lot of attention to anti-corruption infrastructure, and the interim anti-corruption strategy of Ucrobanprom has already begun to be implemented. Two factories went through a competitive selection of executives, there are national deputies in the hall who were present at these competitions. The purchase of power through ProZorro has saved nearly 50 million dollars. And the policy of corporate property management is being updated. Right here and now, for decades ahead, it's going to be what our powerful defence and industrial complexes are going to be, what their priorities are, and what's going to be the standard of defense. Our experience, our technology is what will lead Ukraine to the top of the world's weapons manufacturers. It's a force that will help us gain security and rebuild a strong economy. Not only does our defense bring victory closer, but it also becomes a locomotive for the economic recovery of our country. Together with Western partners, we are building an arsenal of the free world that protects our freedom and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. Out of procedure, please, who's out of procedure? Iron, then Hero. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, distinguished ministers! I'm sincerely convinced that this room will support any changes to increase the defence budget on the basis and in general. The problem is that you put various things in the defense budget that have nothing to do with security or defense. This time. The other one. So it's out of procedure. Honourable Head of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u56	Out of procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u57	Yes, I have a request, Marchenka's statement, can we transfer to the President's Office, which last three changes to the State Budget, which were also in the defense budget, signed for two weeks? There's no pictures, there's nothing to look at, let them sign on the same day. And then it will be fair when Parliament does its work quickly, and in the Office of the President, there are pens to sign as much as one document for security and defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, please let me ask you specifically. If you take the word out of the procedure, I want to listen to the procedure, not the emotional expression and everything. Heratchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u59	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head, this is a rare case where I would like to agree with you that we want to perform here in substance, not emotional performances. We thank the Minister of Defense, who was essentially trying to convey his ministry's position on the bills that are being considered today. And we'd like to put the next one to the vote right now. To the rostrum to summon Mr. Marchenck’s finance minister, who unfortunately gave no meaningful statement in his speech, these were only emotions, as the Chief of the Supreme Council rightly pointed out. And allow each faction to ask the Minister of Finance one question at a time about the bills that we are considering. Because we heard the pioneer talks here, not the regular speech of the minister of finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, we have voted for such things. Let's move on to the question. Dear colleagues, please enter into Bill 10038. We've already entered into Bill 10038. Please move on to this issue. Dear colleagues, we told the Conciliation Board that some would make adjustments. I want to ask you, which of the factions is going to plan their amendments? The "European Solidarity" faction, right, will it make any adjustments? The intellectuals will make their own adjustments. Who else? Will there be anyone else? I see, Demchenko will, Bakumov will put, I see, the puck will put, and the cabal, I see, will put. I see. Okay, then let's go through the factions, right? Shall we go to the table? All right, let's do this. 1 repair, Mokan. Is he insisting? Don't insist. 2 revisions. 1 amendment. Ah, Brainy here's the co-author. Please 1 amendment, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u61	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I, with your permission, give me the first five straights, give me three minutes, and we'll keep moving gradually.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u62	What are the amendments, please tell Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u63	1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th. Instead, two minutes, and we'll move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u64	Please give me two minutes, Brainy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u65	People's deputies, I've always addressed you in the Hall with "honorable colleagues," but after Mr. Danilov's statement we have and Ruslan Alexiyovich, and all the others are tourists, unfortunately. And by this bill, we finance many tourists, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with additional funds. Finance is being allocated to the Cabinet Secretariat, which is not tourists, rather than national deputies who exercise their authority. Instead of the people's deputies who were in this room on 24th, unlike many of the government who left. [[Applause]] Thank you for running away and sitting in Western Ukraine. And we're giving them money today. What is this law called: to assist and provide the Armed Forces of Ukraine? A hundred percent. I support Minister Umerov, who asked for 250 billion, and he needs 250 billion, and not to spend money, I don't know what. So let's do this, today we're going to go to redundancies, let's increase the funding of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, let's increase the financing of the GUR, not the BEB that destroyed the Ukrainian business. Today, there will be many laws that can make this law more quality. I very much hope that the national MPs will have enough intelligence and conscience to support them. Both me and our "Smart Politics" team will insist on them and ask you to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u66	You're going to insist on voting on these amendments, do they apply to the name of the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u67	No, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I think we'll keep going like this if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u68	Okay, then we skip, okay, then we skip, we don't vote. It's a 6-mendment. Ironman, don't insist. 7th, Iron Man, don't insist. 8th, Mokan. He insists, doesn't he? Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u69	Ruslan Alexiyovich, please give me two minutes from 8th to 12th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u70	Please, 2 minutes, 8th to 12th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, would you please tell me that we're even looking at you? Today, thanks to colleagues from various factions, especially I would like to thank Yuzanini, it has been reported that 207 billion in this bill are from the air. Why am I talking about air? Because 207 billion is the amount that we have to take to local authorities as PDF. Did they tell you about this at the "Serve of the People" faction? If you don't mind, I'd like you to confirm this to the head of the committee: whether this is true or whether this has been marked by a minister, a deputy minister of Ulutini today on the committee, or whether we are enacting legislation, amendments to the budget code, which are not guaranteed at all. So what do we do again, or what do we do? We're going to pass the law now, then there's not going to be any change to 10037, and there's not going to be any funding? Will you be blackmailing the hall tomorrow, telling us that we accepted 10038, and then we have to just take the money to the local authorities? Rocsolana Andriyovn, I ask that you confirm or refute the words of the deputy minister, whether this was indicated on the committee, or whether that was true. And if this corresponds to the reality that we have the right under the budget code to consider the 10038 bill unsecured? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u72	We don't vote, do we, Dmitri Alexanderovich? A brief answer, please, to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. I want to say that you all know that the needs of the defence and all security and defence officials are financed exclusively from domestic resources, i.e. from taxes and congregations paid by Ukrainian taxpayers, by Ukrainian legal persons. As far as Bill 10038 is concerned, how these costs will be covered. All 303 billion dollars in defence, 208 billion dollars the government hopes to borrow more in the form of domestic government bonds, 26 billion dollars will be overrun by non-taxable revenues and 69 billion more will have to be funded from other sources. It could be either the surplus in a single treasury account, or, as Dmitri Alexanderovich said quite correctly, there could also be a tax on the income of the natural persons that the government is planning.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u74	Thank you, Your Honor. We can move on, right? Next 13 amendments, Mokan. Mindy, too. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich. You're taking five too, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u75	Let's make it a little bit different, four adjustments, two minutes, and we'll move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u76	Okay. By 5:00, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u77	Thank you. Rocksolana Andriyevna, I'm asking you again. Give a clear answer, did the deputy minister admit on the committee today that the 207 billion dollars in this law are the money they're planning to take under the law, Nina Petrovna said, 10037? Because the Ministry of Finance can't provide internal loans for 207 billion today. You and I see them coming out of the OCHA, going out into international trades, and by a big count today, we all realize there's no security. If that's the case, the revenue, the revenue of the state budget, so you're going to take away from 10037, so you're going to take the military PFC into the local government, so you're going to usurp power at the central level. If Law 10037 is not adopted tomorrow, do you guarantee that the financial security of Law 10038 is provided in the State’s budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u78	Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna. If you'd like to answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u79	Very short. No, that's not true. The First Deputy Minister of Finance didn't say that. And what's more, it's an unrealistic figure in three months of the year that's left over, 207 billion won't come from the PPF and that's just from the military PPF. In total, military PFCs for the year 2023 amount to only 101 billion — about 25 billion in the last quarter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u80	Thank you. Let's move on. 17th Amendment. Packed up her hand, I think. National MP Shpak, you raised your hand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u81	Can I have two minutes? I have two amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u82	What are your adjustments, what are your numbers?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u83	387th and 716th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u84	No, no, we're on the 17th. We're on the 17th. It's yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u85	No, let's do it later.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u86	Let's move on. Okay. You will, won't you? Please, Dmitry Alexanderovich. How much this time?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u87	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Let's go back to five. We're not in a hurry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u88	Come on. That's a good one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, we have a nice title for the bill. But what is underneath it? I would like to thank my colleagues from the factions who prepared the analysis. So the largest percentage increase is taking place in a government body that is approaching our victory with you under the name of BEB. That's the baby that 800 is now on. 818, almost 819 million. And tell me, how much money did they return to the state budget last year? They've returned only 32 million. Don't you think you're sending the money to the wrong place? You don't think you're trying to take money from the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u90	Two minutes. One more minute, please finish. We agreed, we change five to two. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u91	That's absolutely right. Thank you. Don't you think you're taking money from the military and giving it to them, incomprehensible to whom? What the need would be to hear the minister of finance, to hear all the colleagues from the government, and preferably the Prime Minister, the majority who choose the structure that destroys the business in the priorities of the army and the structure that destroys the business. Where's the logic? Where's the state's position? Where is the absence of corruption? Rocsolana Andriyovna, your position, if possible as committee heads, is there any point in funding the BEB instead of funding the Armed Forces of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u92	Dear colleagues. Rocsolana Andrienne, do you want to answer or do you want to move on? Let's move on. Thank you. Next up, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Mikisha, Christmas, you're here too, 21st. We're taking it? Five to two?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u93	I'll tell you. You miscalculated, since the 22nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u94	No, it's not. The thing is, it's there. Wait a second.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u95	There were 4, 5 and 5. I mean, I'm good. I'll show you this on the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u96	One second. I'll tell you what. You took the 5, then we started with the sixth. And the 6th Ironman is simple. You don't count well, Dmitri Alexanderovich. If that's what you're counting on, then. One of them was the Ironman's repair. That's why 21st. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u97	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm definitely not counting too well because 1-a, 2-a, 3-a, 4-a, 5-a mine. The 6th, the 7th was the Iron Man. 8-a, 9-a, 10-a, 11-a, 12-a mine. After that, there were four revisions. After five and now five. Give it time first.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u98	Please, where do you start, and how many amendments do you make?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u99	Of the 22nd. You can appoint me Minister of Finance. There'll be more efficiency.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u100	22nd. Please come from the 22nd, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the bill increases funding by 63 percent. 63 percent. Instead of sending this money to the army, you're sending resources to the state budget. And today, we hear a lot from both the minister and the head of the profile committee, from the monotonousness that we're short of money. What's the point of sending money to the baby? What will this add to our state? Next question. This is a matter for the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Why don't you tell me what Kabina's missing? Why is it that additional funding is provided? What caused this? I'd like to hear your position, Rocsolán Andriyevne, yours, don't refuse any more. I'm very glad that you agreed silently that it doesn't make any sense to spend money on the baby and that you have to go to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. But you held back when our "Smart Politics" team asked you to recalculate the money, redistribute the money from BEB to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. You didn't support it on the committee. I don't know why anyone made that decision. I think it's the President's Office. But I hope you can explain why we're spending money on the Cabinet Secretariat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u102	You can do it briefly, can't you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u103	Yeah. I want to go back to the Economic Security Bureau. I mean, first of all, the budget committee doesn't shape economic security policies. And our tax- and customs-related committee nevertheless adopted the decision of the Supreme Council to create a BEB. So as long as it is, as long as it is a state body and as long as it exists, we have to finance it. If the Supreme Council decides otherwise, we will not finance it. But I want to point out that the total amount of government budget expenditure that we're going to vote today is 317 billion dollars. And the baby we're talking about is 0.06 of the total cost. I don't think it matters at all on the scale of the defense budget that we have to approve today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich, next 27th track what?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u105	We will not change the tradition, five to two, and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u106	All right, go ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u107	Roxolano Andriyovno, I'm surprised to hear from the head of the budget committee of the warring state, 250 billion dollars or 260 billion dollars. Millions of dollars is nothing. Do you think that these funds could not be diverted from the BEB to the Ukrainian Armed Forces and thus ensure their ability? Well, it's not right, it's wrong, it's unreasonable. It's not much, but you know, it's very easy to manage your money. If you and the Budget Committee were to go to the B.B., I wouldn't have any questions. I think you have colleagues there, it doesn't apply to you, there are colleagues who might fall down and not even notice one, and then quietly go into the woods like some. But when you say it's very small, it's almost impossible today. Because every penny has to go to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, every penny has to go to the security sector, every penny has to be provided to temporary displaced persons, to pay the "thirty" and the "per cent" to our protectors, to pay 15 million to the families of the dead, which I didn't see here either. So let's pick out the terms. You really think it's too small and it's not worth the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u108	Rocsolana Andriyevna, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u109	Yeah, I'll give you a quick answer about whether these funds can be directed towards the need for defense. No, you can't. Because only our internal resources — the funds that our taxpayers pay — are directed to the defence’s needs. And according to all the funds that we're raising now inside the country, as well as domestic borrowings, 100 percent of these funds are focused on defense funding. International partners’ funds are being channelled to finance the Economic Security Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u110	Thank you for your clarification. Please move on to 32nd. Dmitri Alexanderovich, again yours, five-by-two again. Please, 32nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u111	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Rocksolana Andriyovn, you're manipulating, with all due respect. Please tell me, can these costs be directed towards social benefits? Can I? Yeah. Really? So it's absolutely not money that you can't pay off to the dead, which you can't send back to the people who suffered in Irpen, in Butch, the truth. Because you call it the security sector, and then you start funding the treasury. Yeah, really, you guys, you put 195 billion in the army here, in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, it's true, it's good. But this is equal to 58 billion less than the Secretary of Defense asked for, less. And now you're saying that we can't reverse it. Let me help you, let's take this budget down now, let's sit on the committee, shut down, let's get the experts if they're not enough on the committee, and we'll rewrite it normally. I'll tell you more, we'll find funds for the army, we'll find funds for the security and defense sectors. Yeah, we lose the baby, yeah, we lose the secretariat, yeah, we lose the band in the striped bathrooms with the MMS, we keep working, we work to win, not to secure the official structures. Ready? Are you ready to take off now and get ready for the second reading? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u112	Thank you. The next amendment is 37. She says she answered the last time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u113	No, how did she respond?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u114	Please, 37th. Do you answer that? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u115	Not ready to send for second reading, for second reading again, because we had literally 10 minutes ago a Defense Minister who said he would have no way to pay the military's money at the end of October. So now every minute is important to us, and we have to go through this bill as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, 38th Timoshenko Julia Volodymyr. You will? It won't. You will? Julia Volodymyrna, your 38th Amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, this is about increasing the cost of treating our wounded fighters. The fact is that the financing situation for medical packages is very critical for the treatment of polytarics and polytars. And we suggested that this bill would provide 3 billion 578 thousand 027 increases in income in order to allow this to be directed to increase the cost of medical packages for the treatment of wounded. It's not just an amendment, it's an amendment that's discussed with hundreds of top doctors, hospital chiefs, from the NSA. I'm asking you very much to support this, because it's priority number one today, putting the wounded on their feet.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u118	Position of the 38th Amendment Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the 38 amendments have been rejected. But from that amendment block, we took into account amendment 90, which on the same subject was partially taken into account. And in fact, we propose to assign the Cabinet of Ministers for a period of military status in the calculation of tariffs and correction coefficients for medical and rehabilitation services, which include increased five-fold nutrition, during rehabilitation in health and rehabilitation facilities for all military and military personnel, and for all persons who have been injured, injured or disabled by the protection of the Father, we will require the Cabinet of Ministers to deal with the application of a higher coefficient, which is not less than 3.0. So the NHRI package is three times as expensive for people who have been injured in combat.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Julia Volodymyrna, are you insisting on this amendment or are we moving on? Let's move on. Thank you. The next 39 amendments, Mokan. Smart, right? Please. Five Amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u121	Yes, Ruslan Alexiyovich, let's make five amendments so we can have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u122	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u123	Yes, turn it on first, time, please. Roxolano Andriyovno, thank you. Thank you. I'm saying important things, let's still respect each other, not be Daniel's, yeah, don't consider ourselves and Parliament a pool and a group in striped bathing suits. Look, you got the right score, you got the minister on the stand, and you said you needed the money. Great! You're very constructive people. There's the right offer from Smart Politics. Let us now accept one of the amendments that the Ministry of Defence will today issue to Mr. Umerova, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, even the volume in this bill, 192 billion, if I am not mistaken. Yeah? And we're going to put everything else down, sit down, work, get literate people, those who are dealing with it, those who know how to count, and we're going to redistribute the funds to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And the baby will get some rest, and the Kabmin Secretariat will get some rest. I can just offer those who, well, aren't ready to go, talk to the boys, the girls on the front. They're definitely bigger. More effectively, I'm just going to take a long time to figure out what they're going to say, and we're going to be able to explain where we need to put the money, what we need. And I think in their priorities, the Kabminu Secretariat will stand, well, somewhere very far away if it ever comes. Why don't we do that? You're willing to support Minister Umerov so we don't waste our time, vote 192 billion, and then divide the rest?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u124	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u125	Dmitri Alexanderovich, but other than. First, we've allocated 208 billion to the Ministry of Defense: 196 to provide the USS and 13.2 to purchase and modernize military technology. But in addition to the Ministry of Defense, there are funds in place: 40 billion dollars for the National Guard of Ukraine, which is also now on the front, 20 billion dollars for the State Border Service, 19 billion dollars for the National Police, which also has in its warehouse the troops of Ljut and 4.4 billion for the production of ammunition, and 16.5 billion for the support of internally displaced persons. It seems to me that these expenses cannot and should not wait for us to put them off and count something.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u126	Thank you. 44 Amendment, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. Are you insisting? Don't insist. You insist, don't you? Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgets and the head of the Committee on Budgets for predicting the order in which we will increase the cost of treating the injured. Yesterday I also met with the minister of finance, who also supported increased funding for the treatment of injured persons. It was a very constructive conversation, and I want to thank the Minister of Finance for that. But we need -- it's our moral duty with you -- to develop both mechanisms and sources, and certainly to increase these costs. Because there is a problem: where there is military air travel; where there is a lack of financial resources in military complex injuries that require long - term treatment. And I'd like to ask that once we've adopted these changes to the budget, we'll still be on the basis of a temporary commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, let's move on. It's Dmitri Alexanderovich again. Five amendments for two minutes? Please. 45th, I'll remind you which one you're on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u129	Until 49.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u130	Until 49. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u131	That's absolutely right. Rocksolana Andriyevna, I'm proud that you've listed some really important articles and some really important expenses that you've put into the budget, changes to the budget for 2023. So let's put them to the vote. I mean, I understand that we're getting close to a logical, correct solution. We finance the Armed Forces, we finance the purchase of weapons, we finance Nazpol, the National Guard -- everything you said. It's really important. And even you, as chairman of the committee, admit it by saying it's an immediate expense. I agree, let's vote them out, and everything else will be redistributed to the same important expenses. Not at the BEB, not at the Kabmin Secretariat, not at the PNB, not at anything else, and our army with you, our protectors with you, our security forces and our defenses. Really? Oh, see, you sneeze, so you agree with me. Let's put it this way. Are you ready to change your budget for the army now or not? Not ready. Well, Rocksolana Andriyovn, is that a state position? Could it be that Ukraine’s national deputy, the head of the committee, does not support the expenditures on the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the increase in expenditures on the Ukrainian Armed Forces? Let's ask this question in the hall, maybe the Hall will support it, maybe the Honourable Head will be ready for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u132	Position, please, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u133	I support the increase in expenditures in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and I have even passed a bill myself. One of the bills to increase defense spending by 500 billion was passed through the budget committee in the spring. But I think it's important for all of our viewers and national deputies to remind us that when we adopt the State Budget Act, we're actually assigning assimilation, we're allowing the principal, for example, the Ministry of Defense to register in the Treasury a payment or a lot of payments for the corresponding amount, for example, for 196 billion. But in order to pay for these payments, there must be money in the only treasury account. The Ministry of Defense has requested funding for 7 trillion dollars. We'll never have seven trillion dollars in our one treasury account to pay for it. That's why, unfortunately, we work within our existing resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, come on. Dmitri Alexanderovich, 50th, 51st, 52nd, 53rd, 54th, right? Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u135	Rocksolana Andriyevna, you and I don't have viewers, we don't do comedy shows and we don't run shows. As long as we're national deputies, as life will come together after the end of the cadence, we'll see, too. But the people of Ukraine, who sent us here to work for him, are watching us, not the viewers. Not for the Ministry of Finance, to which you spend extra money, not for the U.D.O. Please tell me, what is the need to increase the State Security Service now? There are a lot of experts there, I respect them very much, they've done a lot and done the right thing. Why are we spending extra money on them today? Fortunately, the boys are still here and maybe we should redistribute these funds to GUR or redistribute them to the Armed Forces of Ukraine and still have more respect for the people who sent us here to work. I think that would be right, that would be smart and right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u136	Thank you. Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u137	I want to, I agree that we're not being watched by viewers but by Ukrainian citizens, but I do hope they'll be looking at us even though in the record, this is a meeting, so I think we need to explain every position in this important bill, in this important budget. As far as the Department of Public Protection is concerned, we're not increasing the number of people working in the Department of State Protection, but we're increasing the cost of their material and technical security. Why, I explain. We are now being visited by many foreign delegations to Kiev, which we need to form a world coalition to support us with F-16 aircraft, to support the application of sanctions, to support the confiscation of Russian Federation assets that are on accounts in the European Union. All these international partners we need in Kiev, but unfortunately they won't come here if we don't protect them during military action.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u138	Thank you. 55, 56, 57, 58, 59. Is that all right, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u139	Rocsolana Andriyevna, you are contradicting yourself. First of all, you're not increasing the number of people, you're increasing the number of delegations to serve. That's enough for people. There's no need for extra expenses. Maximum fuel, right? So you're going to drop out of the budget committee, but that's not the number you're going to be talking about. I'll tell you how much you're spending on fuel for the Department of State Security. Uh, you're, you're increasing by 230 million. Don't you need too much gas? No one's going to die? Secondly, if you're taking money from anti-corruption agencies in this budget, if you have this level of corruption, I'm not personally with you right now, I'm with you as a representative of the government, you're not going to have any delegations. And we get these bells all the time. And you know that, too. That is why we are already being sent by auditors, who will also need to be protected. And you're going to put more doctors on them, because they're going to need to maintain their health, because looking at the level of corruption that's flourishing today, they can't stand the nerve. And that's going to directly beat our budget, because we're not going to get international aid and you're not going to have anything to distribute. We're just going to be zero divided by zero, although we can't, but on the budget committee, I've seen that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, next amendment. Dmitri Alexanderovich, why don't we change ten to two? Five to two? Okay. Next 60, 61st, 62nd, 63rd, 64th. Dmitri Alexanderovich, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u141	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Please tell the Ukrainian State Property Fund 43 billion. millions plus, I'm sorry. Why don't you tell me what's the point? Instead of providing for himself by renting himself out. When Umerov worked there, he did not ask the Supreme Council to increase funding. You're the only one who's changed it. You need to get some money out there right now. Maybe while he was sitting there, no one could pollinate, now would it be convenient to do so? I understand that compared to the fuel at the Department of State, it's child's toys in your sense. 43 million -- is that money for the budget committee? But why send them there? For what needs? Please note, I'd like to hear your professional position as chairman of the committee, because it's not us, it's Minfin's going to ask you, they're going to ask them, they're going to ask our military of all those who work on the committee or make looks. So please answer, why do you have 43 million? Is there a delegation to meet? Oh, no? Why? On the payroll? Not on the payroll. For what? For what? Please tell me, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u142	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u143	Mr. Rustem Umerov, when working as Head of the State Property Fund, did a very thorough work and liberated many people from the State Property Fund. Unfortunately, under the current laws of Ukraine, we have, in fact, a holding fund to pay them compensation, these liberated persons. So they need these funds to pay compensation, otherwise they will have to pay more money after the court has ruled on behalf of the victims, in this case the victims. But we do realize that these persons were not so affected and were released by Mr. Umerov for the cause. Sadly, though, the State would not want to violate the law in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u144	Please correct. Same format, right, Dmitri Alexanderovich? 65, 66, 67, 68, 69. Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u145	Rocsolana Andriyevna, you're a bit of a contradiction again. He let me go, and you need the money. Can you do that? After the war, you'll pay. Well, he fired. You can get them a job. Right there, when you come to the front, you communicate with our defenders, so many free positions that you can embrace, and pay is good if you go to zero. I think it would be wise for a colleague to get a job like this right away rather than to make $43 million in compensation. You write them certificates, then you hand them out. Let them go to court, let them go to court, and then you'll pay if the court decides to do so, because it's up to us to decide when corrupters aren't corrupts, then Rafik isn't to blame. Then we will decide if this is necessary. But I don't think many of them will go to court. Let's transfer these funds to the Armed Forces. Don't you think it's more of a priority? The National Guard, even the police. On the issue of demarcating territories that are now in the first place. And that's going to be right and clear, and correct as opposed to what you're proposing in this bill. Are you ready to take down 43 million? Do you still think that the people you fired because they're ineffective, you're going to have to pay them off as a representative of the state? Do you find this to be correct, correct, and reasonable? Thank you. We're on the "Smart Politics" team. We definitely don't support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u146	Thank you. Next amendment 71. Dmitri Alexanderovich, look, I'd like you to, but you're a person who's very familiar with the Rules that when you report on these amendments you're talking about, there was a report on these amendments. I will not read these amendments and their essence. But they have very little to do with the problems that you raise. Therefore, the committee can only respond to the amendments. Well, he can't answer if there are five identical amendments: change the government of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, change programs and measures to programs, actions and tasks, change the name of the law. Well, they're hard to answer to things that aren't in amendment. Let's maybe make more sense, let's move on to the amendments that are important that you raise, give specific figures and calculations, and then the committee head will give you an exhaustive answer, comprehensively, to all these questions. Because, frankly, I don't know what Roxolani Andriyevni would say to answer the amendment, which says to replace words like that with the words of the following content, because the next content is Russianism, and it's not an editor. Do you understand? So let's probably go over to the changes that you really have, and start with them. And then the committee head will answer all your questions. Thank you. Rocksolana Andriyevna, let's move on. Next. Dmitry Alexanderovich, 71st, 72nd, 73rd, 74th, 75th. Did I sound right? Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u147	Ruslan Alexiyovich, right is not important or irrelevant. They're important enough, if he thinks he's a deputy, he has the right to talk about them. That's the first one. It's different. We're not talking about approaches right now. We're talking about that if the committee head now agrees to increase what our team, the "Smart Politics" team has proposed, to take the money from the above-mentioned government -- the Kabmin, the ministries, and to increase the spending on the U.S.S.A. and the Ministry of Defense by almost 11 billion, which are offered by the rights, we're going to take it all down and go on with what questions. If such a position is agreed, we are willing to vote for it and not waste our time. But I realize that many colleagues need to be repeated a few times, so I'm forced to. And it's not for you, not for Roxolana Andrienne, for many other colleagues to hear a position. Maybe they'll change their vision, maybe they'll understand that we should vote for the army, not for a government that changes to the Cabinet of Ministers or vice versa. I think it's going to be right and right. So thank you so much for the offer, but let's go straight. Thank you, Roxolano Andriyevno.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u148	The Holy Rights of the People's Deputy. Roxolano Andriyovno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u149	I want to say, in fact, what is the cost of which organs we've cut in this budget? We talk very little about it in the hall right now, but I think it needs to be highlighted too. For example, by 10.7 billion dollars, we offer to reduce the service of government debt. For 214 million dollars, we plan and propose to reduce the funding of officials working in the State Fisheries Agency. For 132 million dollars, we propose to cut the financing of political parties. The Ministry of Youth and Sports reduced its wages by 44 million dollars. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, by the way, and I want to thank the Apparatus for that, has reduced the cost of its maintenance by 30 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u150	Thank you. Here we go, Dmitri Alexanderovich. 76th, 77th, 78th, 79th, 80th. Right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u151	If the colleagues don't perform these rights, the authors of these rights, that's why we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u152	Keep moving, huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u153	We can unite them, and I will ask them to put them to the vote. This is just one of the fundamental rights, and I'd like everyone to see the result of the vote afterwards. And these are the remedies that suggest that we increase the costs of the security and defence sector itself. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'll talk to you about him and ask you to put him up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u154	So we can bet. Or let you cancel, right? Do we waste time, or do we immediately put to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u155	Not in principle, I think that's enough, if you don't, you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u156	Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, 76-80 of the bill is a bill that provides for the redeployment of 50 per cent of the state road fund to the needs of the army: 25 per cent for the development, purchase, modernization and repair of arms, and 25 per cent for the payment of the rewards, the provision of military personnel to the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other forms. Why is this important? You remember the more disgraceful story we saw at the beginning of the year when the Secretary of Defense came and said, "The military asked me to take the 30." Then the team and I returned 30,000, then we were blocked by the people's deputies, at the request of the President's Office, this bill, it's still lying in the walls of the Supreme Council. Regrettably, the Head of the Supreme Council does not make this blocking decree. It's the only case that's never happened before. And in order to make such manipulation impossible in the future with our defenders, I have a big request, let's reroute the road fund to our army, 50 percent, we don't take everything. We're taking 50 percent, 25 of which are going to pay our defenders, and 25 for repairs, restocking our weapons. This is what the Ukrainian army, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, needs today. So this is the conceptual amendment that Ruslan Alexiyovich asked for, and I hope that it will be supported by a hall supported by those who really want to help the army, wants to provide us with weapons, not just in words, telling us how he saves for our victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u158	Please, Rocsolana Andrienne, you wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u159	I'm ready to answer all the questions, but they're really important. It seems to me that the people's deputies who are about to vote here need to understand that we are now in this document, in this bill we can write any amount. We can write that the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces will amount to another 3 trillion dollars by the end of the year. But in order for this funding to really be and for the military to get some money for their accounts, so that the Defense Department can buy shells for this money and so on, we need to increase revenue. Income that's being collected, that's being generated inside the country. I like to support any amendment that proposes to increase income within the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, and yes, 76th is put to the vote. Yeah? I'm putting 76 amendments, Dmitri Alexanderovich, I don't get it. Please, Brainy, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u161	If I may, for the next five more minutes, I would like to ask Roxolani Andriyovni a question and then return to the vote if you do not mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u162	No, no, look, Dmitri Alexanderovich, let's do something to make it work. Are you insisting that we vote on these amendments now? All five of them, right? Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Turn on the Smart Mike. Is this a turn?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u163	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I just want her to point out how much money is in the road fund right now and what 50 percent is going to be. Just so the committee head can tell people to understand what they're voting for. Not for 3 trillion, not for 5 trillion, not for 10 bucks. Please, and then let's move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the five amendments that Dmitry Alexanderovich has just made. I'll bet you an amendment 76. She's been rejected by the committee. The practitioner asks for this correction to be taken into account. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:33:02]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Amendment 77 of Reasonable and Colleague's authorship was rejected by the committee. You've heard the position of the party. Please vote, 77 amendment. [[13:33:26]] For-69 78 Amendment, the same, authorship of Reasonable and Colleague. You've heard the position of both sides. The committee proposes to reject it. Please vote. [[13:33:51]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 79. Amendment of the authorship of Dmitry Razumkov and colleagues. The same thing, she's been rejected by the committee. You've heard the position of the party. Please vote. [[13:34:17]] For-68 The decision is not taken. And amendment 80 is also the authorship of Dmitri Razumkov and colleagues. The committee's dismissed, you've heard the arguments. Please vote. [[13:34:40]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Dmitri Aleksandrovich, 81 of your amendment, because Saurasov's amendment is still under way. Please, 81st. Will you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u165	Yeah. Roxolano Andriyovno, didn't you say how much money in the road fund? Now, the honourable Ruslan Alexiyovich has asked that there be principles and conceptual remedies, there is a principle of conceptual law in order for the national deputies and those who look at us, our fellow citizens, not the viewers, not the overseers, to be able to understand why the Supreme Council has not voted in favour of what amount the Supreme Council has not asked the Cabinet of Ministers to allocate to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Give me an answer, please, how much money is in the road fund right now. And the people we have are smart enough to figure out that we've only just half of that amount we didn't want to count as the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u166	The committee's 81th amendment position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u167	Dmitry Aleksandrovich, I just asked the State Treasury a question: what is the cash cost of the road fund on October 1st to give you the best possible answer. But as for the road fund, I have a proposal that the government and the committee supported in Bill 10037, which we're going to consider, is a bill that we're going to be considering today. It offers the entire road fund, 100 percent directing to the General Fund of the State Budget, and so the need for defence. Because the general government budget fund for the 590th Order is primarily financed, and in the middle of the defence spending, first of all, the military's money is provided, and then the purchase of military equipment. So I'm ideologically supportive of you, and I hope you'll be supportive of the next vote. Dmitri Alexanderovich, you're not even listening to me, I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next amendment, the national MP, Savrasov. Is Saurasov insisting? Don't insist. 83 corrections, Mikisha. Is he insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u169	Mrs. Roxolano, you have a question. This is such an interesting readjustment, chapter VII of the "Ending Positions." What's written here? To establish that in 2023 grants for budgetary support from foreign financial institutions may be made on the basis of agreements made by the State in the person of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, such contracts may include provisions for the waiver of Ukraine’s sovereign immunity in possible disputes over the corresponding liabilities. Please explain what this rejection of Ukraine’s sovereign immunity in possible disputes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u170	83 amendments are an amendment to Mazurash. This is Mazurash's repair. I'm sorry, we have a technical question. Responding essentially to your question about Ukraine’s sovereign immunity, it is about participating in courts in international jurisdictions. This means that our international partners, which are now providing us with irreparable assistance, such as the United States, and some are requiring us to officially implement what government should do on behalf of Ukraine, if the terms of use of these funds are violated, then the United States, for example, can appeal to us in international courts and courts of other countries, not in the Pecher District Court. I think that's fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next amendment is 84th, 85th, I understand, 86th, 87th and 88th. Dmitri Alexanderovich, you'll be two minutes too, right? These are yours and your colleagues. Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u172	Rocsolana Andrienne, I'm afraid I'm listening to you very carefully and I can hear what you're talking about. The only problem that you see is that you don't even have the right table, because when it goes down on your knee, like it was 10038, you see, and the way it was today was 10037. You're not listening to me, you're even coming back. I know you can hear me with your back. But it would be wise for you not only to hear but also to understand that the tables of such a species, according to such important bills, are not being prepared in half an hour, as was the case today. Because even you, as chairman of the committee, don't understand what you represent in the hall. And that's not even your problem, frankly, because it's physically impossible to prepare a thousand rights to review, to study them, just because it's being accepted today at the request of the President's Office. Well, let's face it. So I'm really looking forward to the information you said about from the treasury. I'm surprised you don't know this information as head of the committee. I think that's one of the key aspects. What's more, tomorrow you're actually offering to take away a hundred percent, I don't know what you're saying, and pass it on. So I don't think we should put off for tomorrow what we can do today: let's move 50 percent of the state road fund to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I'm going to continue with the road fund question where you're going to put it, and we're going to talk about it with you. Thank you. If you have anything to say, I'd be happy to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u173	Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u174	The microphone's working, I'm sorry. I know very well that tomorrow, and today I'm going to propose to refer to the general fund of the state budget, and so for the need to defend 95 billion dollars that are expected to come, which is expected to come, should come into the road fund next year. I think the defense forces need them now more than they need them to build roads. As for the expenses and cash costs of the road fund, I also know that on September 1st we have 7 billion dollars left to be distributed. But since I want us to have a professional discussion, it's important that I give you the information on October 1st. As soon as that's the answer, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u175	Thank you. 89 Amendment, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. Are you insisting? Please, Timoshenko. No, you don't. Thank you. I'm sorry. Next, it's 91. I get it, 2nd, 93rd, 94th, 95th, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u176	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Thank you, Rocksolana Andriyevna, for knowing how predictable the state road fund is, because it just surprised me. I just want to point out that in the last vote, the Supreme Council did not recalculate, not redistribute 47 and a half billion, because we talked about half the road fund, the security and defence sector, the Armed Forces. What you're proposing in your 10037 is from one pocket of corruption history to another pocket of corruption history. Take the money out of the road fund and put it into the budget, and then buy 17 eggs, then buy a million-dollar designers, sufferers in shelter, write down and embezzle this budget, and then we come and talk to people about what kind of reconstruction they've done, and in fact they didn't do anything, as it was in Irpen, Butch and other cities. And these scandals are unfortunately associated with the Vice President’s Office. So we don't support taking the road fund and sending it back to a budget where it can be dusted and sprayed in the pockets. We suggest that these funds be sent to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. So a little over 42.5 billion. 43.5 billion dollars to our protectors and the same amount for repairs, re-arms. And you don't support that. That's the difference between you and me. I very much hope that by the end of this law you will change your position and take your position not only as committee heads but as a citizen of Ukraine, as a professional person and.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u177	Rocsolana Andriyevna, if you want, you can answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u178	Yeah. We can't spend 44 billion road funds on defence needs because they're not there, they've already spent on road construction. I think that building roads during the war or repairing roads during the war, if that's not on the military's request, it's a shame, frankly. And I want the MPs to support Bill 10037 today or tomorrow, which will stop this shameful practice at the central budget level and at the local budget level. Because of the cost of roads, stadiums, and the unpriority of the local budgets, no government authority at the central level has spent so much money on anything during the war.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u179	Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. 97th, 98th, 99th, 100th, 101st. Five or more, Dmitri Alexanderovich? She's going to give, huh? So far, five at a time. Please, five to two courses.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u180	All we can do is regress, you see, we're reducing the numbers. I'm very surprised and I'm very proud that you don't support the Great Building during the war. Unfortunately, your position is being disobeyed by the government and the appropriate representatives of the President's Office, unfortunately, because we can go with you to see how this "Great Building" is going and where these funds have been spent, which you just said are gone. Then I would really like to understand how much is left and perhaps not 25, but everything will finally be sent to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. But I see that those who do not support this program during the war are willing to count money as an army, not as corrupt stories. I'm glad you're saying that you're not afraid to talk about it in public. I don't know what you're going to do for this, but I hope that nothing bad happens to you, that you're not going to be taken off the committee head, and you're still going to be able to keep working on this job, I don't know how long and how successful you are, but the fact remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u181	Dmitry Alexanderovich, next 102th, 103rd, 104th, 105th and 106th. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u182	Thank you. Rocksolana Andriyevna, you've been stopping a lot at what you've been doing. There are things I agree with. I just don't get it, and please tell me, what's the miracle of cutting the cost of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food, the budget, excuse me, by 200, almost 200 million? So it's in your same table minus 200. There's nowhere to go? These costs. We don't need to help our farmers, our small, medium-sized businesses that have suffered, given that, after a short-term policy towards Poland, we now have problems with import and transit. export, excuse me, and transit food, food products abroad. Don't you think it would be worth leaving this in contrast to the baby? So if we compare it to you, it's a comparative amount. You don't want to join the army, let's support the Ukrainian business. But you don't want to. You only translate into repressive structures such as BEB, not to protect a business that has suffered a great deal from war. I'm already talking about the replaced fields, I'm already talking about the destroyed infrastructure, and I'm talking about the fact that some of the techs from these enterprises were taken to the front, mobilized, it's needed, it's true. But perhaps it would be wise to provide the Ministry of Agriculture, Minister of Solski, with an opportunity to help people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u183	We support Minister Solski, including in this room. If you remember, we have created a so - called ship insurance fund that exports grain and produce Ukrainian farmers in a grain corridor. I think it was really a very big support for them. With regard to spending cuts for the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, this is a reduction in expenditure on their subordinate agency, the central executive body, the State Fisheries Agency. They believe that they will not need these funds, especially because they have successfully reformed the implementation of fishing permits. They are growing from this reform when they sell permits and quotas at transparent auctions, so they will use these costs rather than budget costs. I think it's a fair story.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u184	Thank you. Please, come on. The following amendments, Dmitri Alexanderovich, are also yours: 107th, 108th, 109th, 110th, 111th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u185	Rocsolana Andriyevna, you didn't answer why we're taking you to the Ministry and not transferring you to other business programs. Secondly, if the minister is doing a fine job and a professional job, that's good. But maybe he shouldn't have to take it, because unlike the baby that we've talked about today, which shows absolute inefficiency, you're adding money to it, and the ministry, which shows its effective work, you're taking money from it. So, based on your logic, the worse they work, the more they get. Well, I think that's the wrong logic. I'm sure those of you who are watching with us today are unfortunately watching on TV, but they're not listening in the hall, they're going to share my position, not yours. Because in normal states the better you work, the more you get. According to your proposals for this budget, on the contrary, the Ministry of Agriculture, which is working effectively, is subtracting 200 million from it, and the BEB, which has been working poorly and has returned 32 million in the last year, you're adding to it how much - 260, 240, how much has been done in the last year, please tell me. And do you not think that this is the wrong approach and proposal to change?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u186	Thank you. Rocsolana Andrienne, do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u187	I always want to answer all the questions. Once again, it's not the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, it's the State Fisheries Agency, which is not part of it. Which is the subject of actual Minagropolitics. Are we increasing this budget by three months of the remaining business support costs? Absolutely, yes. For example, we're increasing the funding for the Innovation Development Fund under the Ministry of Digital Transformation, which is going to be doing not only agrarian business, but also innovation business. That's if you keep it short.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u188	Thank you, Roxolano Andriyevno. Dear colleagues, here comes the entire amendment block of Iron, Claup and Cabal. He approached the Cabal and said that he asked for four minutes instead of all the amendments. Do I get it right? Vladimir Volodymyrovich, are you? People's deputy Cabal! None. Other coauthors, amendments: 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 140, 141, 142, 143. 143, that's it, isn't it? There are no authors; there is no presentation. Yes, thank you. The following 144 amendments, Reasonable. Next, I get it, 144ths, 145ths, 146ths, 147ths, 148ths. Yeah? Please. Or 149th? Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u189	Eight. Ruslan Alexiyovich, 48th, you counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u190	I didn't count, I wanted to offer a new course six to two.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u191	No, no. You see, Rocksolana Andriyevna clearly answered, she's ready to answer all the questions. I, on the other hand, am thinking of reducing the number of rights so that more possibilities are in the head of the committee to answer to this short law. Dear colleagues, a rhetorical question. Please tell me, is space important to Ukraine? Is Space Program Important to Us? Is it important for us to provide one of the key areas that were before the war and that are essential today? I'm sure if there's someone in this room who says no, there'll be units. I hope there's no such thing at all. But on the basis of my question, I would like to understand the logic of the profiling committee, the Kabmin, the Minfin, and everyone else. And what's so amazing that you're from the State Space Agency, you're filming 3 million? Is that too much money or do we not need such an agency? So let's close it up at all, start them up with a profile committee and everything, and we won't be tormented. Why do we take money from them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u192	Thank you. Please read the following amendment 149, 150, 151, 152, 153. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u193	Rocksolana Andriyevna, you probably didn't hear my question, why we're taking it, why we haven't heard it. Yeah, I didn't hear an answer, I think we might hear it right now. Why are we in one of the strategic sectors that we haven't been able to protect, save, now that we're at war, when our Neptuns, our other missile systems are causing a lot of enemy problems, we're reducing funding for this direction? What is the logic, what is the common sense, what is the lack of a governmental approach in this regard? I hope this time you'll still turn on the microphone and you'll have a hell of a chance to answer that difficult question. Because I can see in your eyes that it's hard for you to respond to this wrong position of government and understand why we're cutting costs, we're reducing the funding of these important programs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u194	Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u195	That's probably one of your simplest questions. I have a letter from the State Space Agency saying that they have saved 3 million dollars and are willing to give up this part of the funding to redistribute them, for example, to help internally displaced persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the following are 154ths, 155ths, 156ths, 157ths and 158ths. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u197	Thank you. You see, we've found 3 million more. It's not grants, it's not loans, it's not loans, is it, Rocksolana Andriyevn?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u198	These are loans.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u199	External loans? They're outside. Okay. Then it's accepted, that's the first, probably such a profound answer, and I'm very grateful that you could explain the logic. I don't understand the logic, really, of this agency, but, nevertheless, let's see how they continue to work, the main thing is that they don't send you a new letter in two weeks asking you to allocate these funds. And say, please, then, let's move on. I'm going to have a very strange question for you right now. Please tell me, why are you taking so little from the National Security and Defence Council? You've decided to remove everything from this strange structure. Now, I'll find out where she is. Rocksolana Andriyovn, how many of these are you taking? And, I see, almost 7 million dollars, 6.9. There are tourists there, and yesterday we found out from the secretary’s address. Let's take it all. That's a nice offer, logical, and I think the MPs will support it after yesterday. Why? Would you not object to such an initiative, or would you say that they should leave something behind? After they have abused the Ukrainian people. Because when they speak of who has the right to represent the state, I would like to remind everyone that citizens of that state and those who have fled from war and many others have the right to represent the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, let's move on. 159th, 160th, 161th, 162nd, 163th. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u201	Continuing the story of the U.S.N.B.O. Tell me, please, this is really, this is where I agree with the Head of the Supreme Council, it's not exactly about the right-hand side. But I would like to understand the position, because we're allocating funds to the National Security and Defence Council, so it turns out, do you think it's necessary to finance a structure that doesn't respect Ukrainian citizens? The citizens of Ukraine who went abroad during a full - scale invasion, which Roxolano Andriyovno, and you, you are on your way to the National Security Council. Colleagues even say don't be offended. Yeah, I'm sorry. I agree. You certainly don't deserve that. Then I'd like to go back. Our athletes, who represent our state, our diplomats, our military, who travel and learn abroad to win this war, our journalists, our medics, and even most recently the national MPs, but still those in the international arena, including you, in the international arena, stand for the interests of our state. If you agree with that, I think it's worth lowering the funding of this structure as necessary, because they don't represent anything. And if it does not represent anything, perhaps money should not be spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u202	The following amendments: 164, 165, 166, 167, 168. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, please tell me we have major corruption issues here. And what led us to reduce the cost of a higher anti-corruption court by more than one and a half million dollars? We're way ahead of ourselves, and there's a lot of profile committee running around here, talking about how we need to allocate extra resources to this institution, we need to step it up. Given the level of corruption that is today, we would have to give them extra money because they're going to have jobs now, and after winning, well, all day long, three changes will work. Why do we take 1,560 away from them? 590, excuse me? They also wrote a letter, and there is logic, and there are approaches. Or have we simply decided to reduce the capacity of anti-corruption structures that work in the state? For example, we're going to continue to make these changes, our team and the "Smart Politics" team have been issuing regulations to increase the financing of NAB and SAP, because they need to be able to capture our corrupts in the higher echelons of power, they're unfortunately enough, and you know that. And we have to allocate an extra resource for them, and you take the money from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u204	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u205	I just want to point out that the salary in the High Court of Anti-Corruption Court is 105 thousand dollars, twice as much as in the National Deputy, any National Deputy. I'm sorry, where else would they increase their wages?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next amendment 169, 170, 171, 172. Please, Brainy. 183, I'm sorry, 183.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u207	Roxolano Andriyovno, there are colleagues sitting there and they're telling me that the National MP doesn't even have 50, and we're jealous of you if you have 50, but the problem is different. If you're saving that for a cut in wages, let's cut them all. I would like to remind you of regulation 48 of "Smart Politics," which was voted in law and is now locked in the walls of the Supreme Council. And let's all take them out and limit the wages for top officials to 67,000 dollars. We can limit it in this law. I agree, 108 is a lot. You know, you're not right, you're comparing the wages of the nards. And I think it would be right to compare the wages of the medics to the minimum wage of our defenders, which is 20100. Yeah? See, I'm giving you a hint. It would be compared to the salary of a teacher, a school teacher, a kindergarten. Because sometimes it seems to me that we have some kind of closed cycle: we believe that, apart from the national MPs, there is no one else. There's life outside this room. You want me to take a tour? I think it'll be interesting. I see that you have accepted my invitation, so we will definitely do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u208	Roxanne Andriyovn, please. There's a lot of tension in this room!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u209	My mother has a physics teacher, so she's quick to tell me how things are with teachers and teachers. But by the way, I support the need to limit wages. I, for example, filed an amendment to the State Budget Bill of 2024 that says that in 2024 it is necessary not to increase the salaries of deputies, which should automatically increase due to an increase in the subsistence minimum. I don't think it's right now. I hope you'll support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u210	Next, the following amendment: 174ths, 175ths, 176ths, 177ths, 178ths. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u211	I definitely support you, and I think we'll both vote, and that'll be the end of it. And I'm talking about more than wages, not just the salaries of the national MPs. And I suggest you limit 10 minimum wages for all, not just judges, for all: for your supervisory advice, which. - Yours, too, don't get rid of it, yours, you voted for it, you get 300, 400, 500 thousand dollars, you don't sit down, you work once a month. Let's limit them first. I think that would be the right thing to do, that would be smart. I hope you can support that, too. And the next time I ask for a decision to cancel the decision made by the Cabal, 48 orders, where there is a specific limit of 67,000, and where there was a refund of 30,000, you will also vote for it? You'll see. Thank you for your position. And at the end of the day, would you please tell me how much the physics teacher pays?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u212	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't see who's there. Who's got a replica? I can't see. A cabal, huh? They called the Cabal, please. Please, Tzabal. The Cabal, please turn the line on. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, I'm going to let you in on a secret: a card needs to be inserted in order to speak. Please. Now, for a second, the Cabal will answer here.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u213	Look, I have a very simple offer. The edit of Dmitri Alexandrovich, mentioned by him, allowed the economy to save about a billion, which was not enough for 1 percent of the money needed, there seemed to be a shortage of 2 percent. This bill, it allocates 303 billion to the security and defence sectors, 211 of which are in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Let's vote in favour of this bill and allocate these three hundred, sorry, 211 billion, and we won't take the time. And tomorrow at 10037, where we have really different positions, tomorrow we're all going to be, and including I'm going to be fine, we're going to be talking. Let's vote on this bill. We're going to have a very long time tomorrow after the 37th Bill, where everyone can hear their position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u214	Committee position. That was a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u215	About what?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u216	About the work plan of the physics teacher. That was the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u217	Oh, yeah, I'm sorry. There was no such correction, by the way, unfortunately. I'll tell you that the salary, it depends more on the category. Here's my mom, a teacher in a higher category, who has a salary of 16,000 dollars per bet, if she has a full bet, and according to her colleague, I think so too. She just wrote to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u218	Beautiful. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, the next amendment is 179, 180, 181, 182 and 183. Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u219	Rocsolana Andriyovn, thank the Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Cabal, they've given you the time to write your essay to get an answer. You're more like that, sorry about the slang, you don't smoke. They said 16, so they said, you shouldn't say what Mom wrote. I was hoping that you knew how much your mother was getting as a teacher, as a person who was learning our future, which was very important in physics. This, I think, would be correct in terms of this important profession. I say absolutely without irony right now, because our teachers, our doctors and our military need to keep the monuments alive, because when a person works for 16,000 dollars, giving himself, not an hour, not four, as the Supreme Council does, for 16,000, he deserves respect, unlike many others. And when you talk about the salary of 100,000, which our representatives of the supervisory boards don't deserve, our representatives of the various institutions, I really think it's worth comparing not with the people's deputies, but compared to such an important profession as the teacher's profession. Thank you to your mother for everything she does. It's totally honest.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u220	Rocksolana Andriyevna, what's your position?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u221	We've already gone to a substantive discussion, but I'll tell you why I asked my mom, because she's 32 years of pedagogical education. Not all teachers have that much experience. And if we're talking about a teacher who comes after university, he has much less pay. Before tax, it will be about 13,000 dollars. And that's actually not enough, and after taxing, it's even less. And by the way, I want to go to the education committee on behalf of all the physics teachers, and I know that you hear us that physics teachers, unfortunately, don't get paid to book and check notebooks that they check at least as many as Ukrainian teachers, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, look, I have a big request. We are now discussing fundamental adjustments. I want to remind you that we've just been in the process of changing the name of the program in this line of "other revenue." Please, let's take a walk on these issues. I really want all the teachers, all the doctors, to get a decent salary, and as a family of doctors, I know very well about this too. But let's go to specific Bill 10038, 10038. You have 184th, 185th, 186th, 187th, 188th, 188th. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u223	Thank you. Please tell me, Rocsolán Andriyevn, there are no changes to this bill under the Ministry of Health. Why is there no increase in the expenditure of this ministry? Because you and I understand the number of people in need of medical attention today, and unfortunately, military medicine is not enough. Would it not be wise to allocate additional funds, for example, instead of BEB, it is already famous, in order to provide more careful preparation for the rehabilitation, rehabilitation and treatment of Ukrainian civilians who have suffered from wars that have psychological traumas, including, unfortunately, even mental injuries? And at the same time, we need to think with you about the rehabilitation of our defenders. Would it not be helpful to support and provide additional resources to the Ministry of Health?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u224	Pretty soon, Rocksolana Andriyevna?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u225	The Ministry of Health is one of our priority ministries, we always quickly allocate funds to them when they are asked. We questioned them several times, they said there was enough funding at the moment. Moreover, in the hospitals that are now in Ukraine, with NSOs counting costs, there are now more than 20 billion leftovers in accounts that they can spend on the treatment and rehabilitation of Ukrainian citizens. Thus, this year’s health system is fully funded.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u226	Thank you. 189th, 190th, 191st, 192nd, 193rd. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u227	Roxolana Andriyovna, please tell us what is the necessary increase of 91 million funding for the Ministry of Finance? What is the need? We've already done it there. We've already had all the prisons rebuilt, all the assholes, all of them. Even a colleague was driving, watching it. Ruslan Alexiyovich, you were, you saw, you watched. They say it's nice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u228	Whoever didn't will be who he is, he won't forget, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u229	You're more visible. You're more visible. Don't complain, yeah, I know, I heard that too. But if you're serious, Rocksolana Andriyevna, please tell us what we're spending this money on. Why is the Ministry of Justice so busy today that they need more than 91 million dollars? Do they want to build more specialties or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u230	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u231	This is a very serious subject. 91.2 million dollars we're talking about keeping Russian prisoners of war. My personal position is really different. If I could choose for myself, and this isn't a joke right now, they'd be picking berries in the woods. But Ukraine is a civilized state, and we have to adhere to all international conventions to keep prisoners of war, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u232	Thank you. Next up, Dmitri Alexanderovich, yours too, 194th, 195th, 196th, 197th, 198th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u233	Rocsolana Andriyevna, I understand that you probably don't have this information objectively right now. Can you ask how much it costs the State to retain a Ukrainian citizen in prison to keep a Russian prisoner? If I'm not mistaken, there might be enough weird numbers. Mr. Zupanin, you've closed Roxolan Andriyevna. It's hard to communicate with her.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think that's the kind of information any of us can ask. Well, it's not a colloquium for Rocksolana Andriyevna to answer all the questions. But I think it should be taken into account that we have international obligations under appropriate conventions for the maintenance of prisoners of war. Although I agree with you, we need to find a balance. We're moving on, aren't we, Dmitri Alexanderovich? 199th, 200th, 201th, 202nd, 203rd. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u235	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm sorry, I'm really not in the right place right now. You know, after Olenowka, after she's been bullied by our prisoners of war, after you've been talking to them and talking to their families, you know, I won't raise my hand to vote for plus 91 million to provide, well, let's call them, Russian prisoners. He won't get up. Because after people tell you what happened to them, they don't. That's why I think 91 million would be worth sending just for the boys and girls who came back from captivity and giving them a chance to recover. I know it's funny in the hall, but I'm not saying funny things right now! Why don't you go talk to them? I don't think many people have. It's freezing in the skin. It's on the skin. It's really scary, for God's sake, don't let anyone in this room even hear about it, not what you're feeling. So let's put the money on them, they definitely deserve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u236	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u237	I agree with you. As a person, I do not want to defend this position, but the committee has supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u238	Thank you. Let's move on. 204th, 205th, 206th, 207th, 208th. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u239	Roxolano Andriyovno, how did you vote on the committee for this amendment? I'm done. We can keep going. How did you vote for her? Have you voted in favour of a table containing 91 million, and which of the members of the committee did not vote for it?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u240	Please, Roxolano Andriyevno, if you want to answer, no, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u241	We did not vote separately for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u242	Thank you. Moving on, 209 amendments, 210ths, 211ths, 212ths, 213ths. Please, Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u243	Well, Minust and I have come to understand the position of the committee that 91 million is not for our defenders, but for the captives we have to make an appointment. And I have the next question. Please tell me, why are we giving away 272 million to the Ministry of Finance? There's an increase in the state, there's an increase in wages, there's an increase in the function, they're fighting today, they're doing something else? What do we spend 272 million for the Ministry, almost 3 million for the Ministry of Finance? What is the need? I don't understand. Please explain to me, would you please explain to your colleagues the logic of accepting such changes to the State Budget for 2023? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u244	Rocksolana Andriyevna. Okay. Thank you. 214th, 215th, 216th, 217th, 218th. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u245	Ruslan Alexiyovich, unfortunately, did not respond. With your permission to give an answer, what are we increasing the funding of the Ministry of Finance to a quarter, more than a quarter, a billion dollars? I think the Ministry of Finance is supposed to save, they have this task, they always do it. And for every bill, we're constantly getting comments, the Ministry of Finance against, because it needs extra expenses, and here the Ministry of Finance has set itself up with extra expenses, not too much. We're saying that we don't have money for missiles, but we're saying that there's no money for mines, there's not enough to provide our Armed Forces, it's an objective reality. I just don't have to say it's grants, it's loans and stuff. Let's do it differently then, let's find a mechanism to address it to the security and defence sectors, or to support business, or to restore it. Because I would also like to remind everyone in this room that most of the money is loans, not even grants. We thank our partners for their help, but more often we will have to return. And as a result, I would like to remind everyone that this money will be given to our children with you. Because today we've passed over 100 percent of GDP externally. So please describe why we're alloting in addition to Minfin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u246	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u247	The Ministry of Finance is the Chief Managing Officer, so he's in the budget line of the Ministry of Finance. In terms of increasing funds, the increase takes place at the State Treasury and State Audit Office’s territorial offices, namely, to pay off coefficients to people working in treasury and audit services near the front line. For example, a person who works at the State Treasury in Constantine, and they still work there, gets even 9.5,000 dollars per hand. If we don't add these funds, they won't even get 9.5 in the last three months of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u248	Please, come on. 219, 220, 221, 222nd 223rd. Dmitry Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u249	Thank you. Rocksolana Andriyevna, I have great respect for those people who work in Constantinenivka, I know what it is and there I often do, as opposed to those who live there all the time and are under fire every day. But then let's get out of the other one. Let the Ministry of Finance then note how it turned out that staff salaries were not budgeted for 2023. And it's not 2 million forgotten, it's 273 almost. Well, that's not two cents. When we said to pay back 30,000 extras, everyone here was screaming, running around the perimeter, saying there was no money for our defenders. According to Vladimir Volodymyrovich, the amendment of Razumkov offered to save, the transcript could be picked up, followed by Freud. That's right, save the state's money so they don't get wasted, but go where they're supposed to go, on our protectors with you. And it would be better not to block it, but to support it. And I really hope that this blocking order is going to go into the hall, and we're going to cut salaries for officials, and we're going to provide fair pay to the military and everyone else who is the defence security sector. But unfortunately, Constantine's, what you've given here is not an answer. 272 million. How many of these people are there? How much will we pay and increase this salary, and in what territory is this exclusively distributed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u250	The following are 224ths, 225ths, 226ths, 227ths, 228ths. Oh, you're gonna answer that? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u251	Look, I've just opened up a budget for the State Treasury for their administrations in the front lines, and I'm going to read you a few simple cities where the Treasury Department works. The city of Costinovka, Kramatorsk, Swatovsky district, Rubižne city, Nikopol city, Pochrovsk district of Dnipropetrovsk district, Zaporozhya town district, Hortica Hortic district of Zaporozhya city, Energodar city. It's temporarily occupied, but the treasury is there and it's moved to the front, and they're making payments that the city council of Energodar is paying now. The city of Mikolai. There are 48 people in the treasury. City of Ochakov. There are 14 people in the treasury. Receipt. Snow White of the Mikolai district. I can count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u252	Thank you. Please repeat 224th, 225th, 226th, 227th, 228th. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u253	Put the 248 separately, then we'll vote on it, until 247.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u254	No, we're still at 228.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u255	Oh, sorry, sorry, yeah. Roxolano Andriyovno, you can't count them all, because from the above-mentioned population points I wasn't in Energodar and I wasn't in Ocakow, everyone else had it. And how people work there, I understand how much it's possible compared to what we're here, and they're there in the open. But you didn't answer my question. Two hundred and seventy-three million, how many of them will they pay? It's a thousand people, it's two thousand people, it's five hundred people, it's a hundred -- how many? The only simple question. Because I understand that we're going to have plus 100 dollars, and the head of the district administration, who's going to be sitting very far away from the front line and nothing, global risk nothing, gets a huge payoff. We're talking about honesty here, aren't we? If you tell me that a co-worker of the Costa Rica Treasury gets one, a junior specialist, a top specialist -- okay. But give me how many of these people. Let them do it. That's what you should have, because they did it once, 272 million. We've got October, November, December, three months. We're dividing 273 million by two, by three, sorry. How much does that go for? Ninety, I'll give you a hint. And how many people are 90 million divided by a month? Just take the average in the room. Give me that information, please. I'm waiting, I think my colleagues will be interested in listening too.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u256	Thank you. Well, I think the information, if you're ready, you'll pass it on, not separately. Next, 229th, 230th, 231, 232th, 233th. Smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u257	Ruslan Alexiyovich, Rocksolana Andriyevna, I saw in her eyes, I wanted to say very much, you were to her. You probably just didn't see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u258	You just see the eyes, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u259	I'm just telling you in a good way, you just don't see it, and she really wanted to, you missed it. And honestly, I just want to understand. I don't mind us paying people who really deserve it. But I want to understand who this money is for, so that it doesn't work out that we're back there in the Ministry of Wages with 100 of something thousands. That's a fair question, absolutely logical. I don't think there's gonna be any questions for you or for Roxolana Andrienne or for your colleagues. Thank you. Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u260	Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u261	I've got the treasury records. First of all, it's just frontal areas and frontal areas that have a front line: Lugansk oblast, Dnipropetrovska, Zaporizka, Mikolayivska, Sumska (Well, because on the border), Kharkiv region. And in treasury, these coefficients are going to be given to 2,000 people in territorial administrations. As to why these costs had not been made earlier, the coefficients were unfortunately decided only in August of this year, which is actually very late. And the government should have thought about these people a long time ago. But we have what we have. And we, as deputies, should at least ensure that this decision is implemented, because it is very correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u262	Thank you. Let's move on. Next: Amendment 234, 235, 236, 237, 238. Dmitry Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u263	Rocksolana Andriyevna, I'm sorry, it was a little noisy here. Please tell me, did I hear 2,000 people correctly? How much?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u264	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u265	Two grand, right? 2,000, I'm not wrong. Look, you and I are just doing basic math here, and when you divide 90 million into 2,000 people, you get an extra 45,000 dollars. No, in a month, in a month, colleagues. Count it, please. 272 divided by 3 months and divided by 2,000 people. And you're sure there's such a supplement, you're sure there's such a supplement? Because it's kind of weird. So you can then confirm that in the treasury in the occupied territories, the average wage, the pay, excuse me, is going to be $45,000? Are you ready to sign for this, as they say? Or they put something back in there like they always do. I did the right thing, didn't I, Rocksolana Andriyevna? Three months, 272 million, almost 3 million, right? Thank you, Ruslana Alexiyovich. I think Rocksolana Andriyevna will be able to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u266	Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u267	No, it's not like that. Because 272 million is for the Ministry of Finance as chief executive. The Treasury receives an increase of 51.6 million dollars. It's a billed and billed salary. So the numbering state does, the calculation is based on the employee's salary. That's why 45,000 won't be there. I'm going to tell you in my next answer what kind of sums we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u268	Thank you. Please move on, dear fellows. 239, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. Please, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. 239th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u269	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, today, having listened to the presentation on these ministers' bills, and you know, it's surprising the position, more loyally, the very style of communication between the finance minister and the people's deputies. Such a instructive tone is made up of the impression that it is not a minister of government finances appointed by Parliament but a teacher of mathematics who has already written an application for exemption from school. Because of this, there is a need for mutual respect, and it would probably be less law enforcement that reads the national MPs today. Basically, the 239th amendment. It is we who are talking about what a colleague of reason, speaking, demanded. That's because the government didn't count the extra money to take to the military, which is the Ministry of Finance and.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u270	We vote in favour of this amendment. 239 Amendments by Timoshenko, Cymbaluk and colleagues She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:38:16]] For-41 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 240. Honcherenko Alexiyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u271	Dear colleagues, I propose to withdraw the funds from the Cabinet Secretariat and from others, from my point of view, not the most necessary things and to pass them all on to the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine. You and I have a huge problem. Today, we have military personnel who are brought out of the state, for example, because they are considered unfit or limitedly fit, who are taken out of the state, who get 500, 600, 700 dollars a month. How much money and money do you spend on coffee a day? These people get 500 or 700 dollars a month, and these are the people who have already given their health for the Motherland. We can only fix this one way -- we can transfer the Mino-Defense funds to get these people the necessary supplements. Let's do this because this is our problem, and that's why we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u272	Vote. Please, I'm putting to the vote 240 of the Hotcharyenka amendment. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:39:51]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next amendment: 241, 242, 243, 244, 245. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u273	Rocksolana Andriyovna, back to Minyust. Look, we're going to the truth a little bit, because at first you said that 273 million dollars to Minustu we're going on a noble mission for extra pay. No, no, you said 272, I was asking about that figure. You said that we're assigning them to our people who are doing the functions, the treasury functions in the territories that have been occupied or occupied are now near the front line. I realize it's a very large sum, but I get it. So you and I did basic math calculations, I had a kid doing it in third grade, took 270 billion, millions, sorry, divided into three months, because we had October, even October, October, December, got 90 a month and divided into 2,000 people, got 45,000 supplements. And then when you said no, no, it turns out it's 50, it's about 50 million, then it's 8-8.5 thousand, 8,330 if you take it. But you don't think we're anywhere. I can't hear you. You can answer now. I don't think you think we've lost 223 million with you? Where are they going? They're registered with the Ministry of Finance. Where did they go? We found out that this was no longer a treasury. Where are they? Who are they? To whom will this money go?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u274	Yeah, we had it, we ended up with a 245. [[B in m in s a l in]] What is the answer? Rejected amendment. Next, 246. Mikisha, please. Are you insisting? Please, 246.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u275	Mrs. Roxolana, here's a statement that you said 30 million people leave the Supreme Council. I'd like to go to the Ukrainian citizens and say that it's not about the salaries of the Ukrainian people's deputies, it's about doing the legislative work of the Supreme Council, it's about any bill that needs to be talked about, it has consultations, round tables, work meetings, everything else. That's exactly what's taking money from the law-making activity itself. And you realize that this directly affects the quality of the relevant bills. And just so it doesn't turn out that the Supreme Council produced according to the way that the Kabmin with the concept made this stupid. Do you understand? And we're adding 215 million to the Kabmin. So I don't understand how this is happening that we're taking legal action from the Supreme Council, and we're adding Kabmin 215? So I ask my colleagues to support and leave this 30 million for activity and organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u276	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u277	Dmitry Sergiyovich, the salary of the national deputies is paid from the programme of legislative work of the Supreme Council. We're taking 30 million dollars off the payroll of deputies. Anyone in this room will be able to confirm this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u278	Thank you. Vote? Please, 246 Mikisha. The committee's dismissed. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:25]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 247, Nekludov. But Nekludov has many amendments. You want to speak for them all once. Right? I'll announce: 247th, 362nd, 505th, 618th, 714th, 787th, 817th, 828th, 849th. I'm giving you a performance. You're going out, aren't you? Three minutes. Please, Nekludov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u279	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, for your understanding and your opportunity to speak. I understand you have excellent communication with Dmitr Alexanderovich. Well, we need to slow down a little bit. I have a little bit of an adjustment, too, and they're more modest. But still, I think they're needed. And, Rocsolana Andriyevna, it's so good to see you. We had a conversation last night. And they communicated, and I think it's fruitful, because we've stopped at what's important is that we do everything we can to help the army, help our U.S.S.A., our guys to help speed up this help. And my corrections are very simple. They're about to take a little bit of money from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a little bit of money from the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, a little bit of money from the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, a little bit of money, just 42 million dollars. And they want to go to development, purchase, upgrade and repair of military equipment, equipment and equipment (code 2101150). That's what we said. I don't think that's going to argue, it's important things that can help accelerate our victory. The next block I'm going to propose some adjustments there so that from the State Agency for Reconstruction and Infrastructure Development of Ukraine a small amount of money, there's just a funny, 3.3 million, a little bit more, to send half of them to support the expenditure under the Defense Intelligence Programme, to help Mr. Budanov, maybe to improve some of his activities there, so that we can see more success in the enemy's territory, and the same ones that will help us. And to the National Police of Ukraine, I'm sure that these funds can help the "Lia" unit that's fighting and quite, I think, effectively protects our borders, too, we have to help. And another block of rights is a little bit of money. Well, I think that 15 million, if we remove from the National Council of Ukraine the issue of television and radio talk, and send for help, the social protection of citizens who are in difficult circumstances in life, and essentially internally displaced people who have suffered from war who have lost everything. My colleagues from the interfractional MPs, the IFO of Ukraine, the U.K.U.O., are dealing with these problems, and we see how much suffering these people suffer and, of course, they keep saying what they need to help. So I think it's not a critical sum for the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio, and I would like it to go to their aid. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u280	Roxolano Andriyovno, you wanted to answer, didn't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u281	Yes, I wanted to respond essentially immediately to a few of your suggestions. First of all, you can't take the money out of recovery. It's a grand, it's a grand goal, an irreversible help from the European Union, which they've given us just for the sake of reconstruction. Using them for other purposes, and thus for defence purposes, is strictly forbidden. Both the European Union and all of our other partners are watching very closely. As far as the funds allocated to the MLC are concerned, the ministries and so on are the same international partners that we cannot target for defence. If you want to raise defense spending, you have to raise the internal income of the Ukrainian state. With respect to your 787 revision on the reduction of expenditure on culture and the reduction of expenditure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u282	Thank you. Let's move on. Next: 248, 249, 250. What do you propose? Come on, do you propose to vote in 247? Come on, I'm putting to the vote 247 of the amendment Necluded. She's been rejected by the committee. You've heard the side arguments. Please vote. [[14:49:48]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The rest of us will vote. No, we don't have to, okay, then we don't vote the rest. 248, 249, 250, 251, 252. Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u283	The other authors of the paper didn't want to come out of these rights? Okay. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put this right to a vote, it's just one of the fundamental rights. It will demonstrate the position of the Hall on the priorities of the Supreme Council and budget priorities. What's she talking about? She proposes to redistribute 214.4 million dollars from the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. You've talked a lot today about how Kabmin's representatives are acting, how they treat the Supreme Council. I see no reason for extra funding. The Supreme Council is reducing its funding. I'd like to thank both Roxolani Andriyevna and Apparatus, and in this regard the committee, yes, we're reducing the expenditure on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 30 million. And at the same time, we're increasing the spending on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by 214 million. Please tell me, what's the point? I understand that nobody cares about it in the hall, there's no people here, everyone's different, but the same important law, but how can you explain it? I think we need to take out all the surpluses, the possibility that we can reroute to the U.S.S.A. If anyone disagrees, you may not vote for it right now. But I think then the boys and the girls on the front will take the results of the vote and look. So honestly, I'm asking you, as a person, to convert this money into our protectors.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u284	I understand that's what this is about. 248 amendments. Yes, Dmitri? 248. Right? We vote her. Turn the Smart One on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u285	They're similar, Ruslan Alexiyovich, and at least two of them are 248th, 249th. If they don't vote, if there's no common sense, well, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u286	Okay. Yes, I'm putting 248 amendments to Razumkov's authorship and colleagues to the vote. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:52:56]] For-53 The decision is not taken. And 249. She's been rejected by the committee. Also, I'd like to vote. [[14:53:18]] For-52 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 253. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u287	Dear colleagues, while there is a fraction of the "Serial of the People" in the hall, I would like to address you, so listen, why can't you vote for this law? Reason number one. It's not just defense. You see what journalists write, and I quote, "The bureaucrats ask for money on their salaries by covering their defense expenses." I'm just showing you. And reason number two. You're told whether there's a PDF or not, but the key point is 207 billion domestic loans, which are a key element of this bill's coming, they're taking it, and they're hiding pretty much from the PDF of local communities. And why is that so interesting, because read the conclusion of the General Legal Authority: the bill is also proposed to supplement the chapter of this and this act by paragraph 15 of this law on how to use the remainders of the State budget subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u288	253 amendments, do you insist that she be voted on? I'm betting on 253 adjustments. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:54:59]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 254, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u289	Alexei Hotcharenko. Guys, we need to take the money off the clerks and hand it over to those who really need it. Unfortunately, there are many categories. Well, let me give you an example. Let's be honest, what is one of the most important problems in Ukraine today? Our very valuable resource is people, and we have this huge demographic problem, well, it's huge. War, the release of millions of Ukrainian women and children is a colossal problem. How do we solve this problem, including by looking ahead? And we're paying mom 860 bucks a month for a little kid today. Can you support a child for 860 dollars? Well, I think the answer is obvious. So let's take the money from the clerks -- let's give it to the kids. Because if we want these kids to be more so that we don't sit in an empty country in 10-20 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u290	Please, Roxolano Andriyovno. You're not answering. The committee turned it down. Let's put it on, Alexia, shall we? I'm betting on the vote number 254 of the People's Deputy, Honcharenko Alexiyovich. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote for the vote. [[14:56:43]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Next 255, Ariev, Herasimov, Chigos. Arjev Volodymyr, please. Vladimir Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u291	At first, I would like to respond to the tone of the Minister of Finance's speech before the Supreme Council and remind the Minister of Finance. Jaroslav, leave the finance minister alone for a second. Yet, you have been appointed by the Supreme Council, not the other way around. And I ask you very much next time to select words for the higher legislative body of Ukraine. The other one. Still, do we approve a military budget or a management budget? If there's an increase in expenditures on the Supreme Council, on Kabmin, on the Office of the President and everything else, why are we now saying that this is a military budget? Let's take it off of the Kabmin right now, let's say 210 million and send it to other things. And most of all, we're sitting and dividing the budget now, but if we don't do reforms in the near future, we're just not going to have anything to pay, and you all understand that. There's just no coming. And you can write at least billions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u292	Thank you, Vladimir Igorovich. Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u293	This is a very correct comment that in order to pay the salaries of military personnel, there must be money in the only treasury account, Ukrainian money coming from taxes, from the congregations, and Ukrainian money, which now, for example, lies on the remnants of local budgets. As for the salaries of officials, I want to say that it's generally suggested that if you look at the general budget, there's an increase of 317 billion dollars, of which 303 billion dollars go essentially to the defence needs, and 16.5 billion to the needs of internally displaced persons. All the rest of the increase, the decrease, they're balanced with zero budget effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u294	I am betting on the vote on the proposal of the Ariev People’s Deputy to take into account the number 255, the authorship of his and his colleagues, Gerasimovitch, Chigoza. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:59:24]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 256, Bondar, Veličkovic. Please, Big Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u295	Rocsolana Andriyevna, when we discussed with you in the summer about the summer recovery of orphans, I remember the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which this category was forgotten, that they should be made at the expense of the state, in an orderly manner, cured or passed the period of rehabilitation. So I have a proposal that we now remove 208 million from the Cabinet of Ministers and send them to our very sensitive category of orphans. I would like to remind you that according to the law, the State is responsible for the condition and health of these children. So let's vote, dear fellows, it's about children, it's about our future. Here I agree with my colleague, Potterenk, because humans are our very precious future to build our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u296	256 revisions. I'm putting her to the vote. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:00:55]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 257. Fedina, please. There's no Fedina, is there? Where? And there's Friz. Fries, please, Irina Vasilovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u297	Thank you very much, sir. Ms. Roxolana, look, the title of the bill is eloquent enough to finance security and defence sector security and priority issues. Amendment 257 refers to the removal from service and organizational, informational and material and technical security of Kabmin's 206 million activities and their transfer to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I would like to point out that it is the Kabdin that is sabotaging the preparation of regulations under law for laws that are already approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to remind you that it was Kabmen who brought chaos by his decrees, taking 30,000 dollars from the military, and then we had to regulate it by law. It was Kabin who had been developing an order for UCD status for more than 10 months, causing trouble and a great queue. So I'm proposing this informational-analyst.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u298	257 amendments to the authorship of Fedina and Friz. The committee's dismissed. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[15:02:38]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Next amendment 258, Iron, Clapuk, Cabal. The devil asked. Is there a Cabal? Please give the Cabal. We agreed for four minutes instead of his amendments. Please. Sabal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u299	Dear colleagues, our first-reading faction has passed an alternative bill 10038-1, the main difference is that we have proposed to the government an increase of 303 billion dollars to finance the security and defence sector, we have proposed to add another 65 billion dollars to the internal income in terms of where the situation is going to be overturned today. We've consulted with the Ministry of Finance, we understand that we've really confirmed that there's going to be a reconstruction, but on the other hand, we also understand that there's going to be some kind of misunderstanding. What will be the real picture, no one really knows. But at the same time, we met, realizing that there is some risk that maybe by the end of the year there is not enough money, especially under programme 1020 – that is, financing the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So the only thing we expect from the Ministry of Finance is that once that understanding comes, we will be able to consider such a bill quickly as the Supreme Council. I'm just going to remind you that according to the calculations that we've seen, the need for the Ministry of Defense to finance the Ukrainian Armed Forces was 250 billion, and now we're giving 211, which is 40 billion. But at the same time. Indeed, there is not enough, but no one knows what the situation will be by the end of the year. But at the same time, we understand the importance of adopting this 211 billion as quickly as possible, because that's the money we need for November-December. So this 211 in the Ukrainian Armed Forces needs to be allocated now and in addition to the funds that are being allocated to other areas of the security and defence sector. So we, our faction, are ready to support it in this way, realizing that there is this additional need and realizing that this additional need may have to be considered within a month or a half. At the same time, I'd like to make a couple of rebars that are important to us, which, as the Supreme Council, will help us to pass these bills more quickly. This is a bill, indeed, which shows from the title that this is a bill on strengthening the security and defence sectors. But this was mentioned by some reporters, right-wing authors, which is a large part of the extra cost, which is more than 10 billion dollars that don't go to the security and defence sectors. And, really, there's the necessary costs, including we're supporting, probably, except for the BEB, except for the Cabinet of Ministers, but most of them are really needed. And I just have an offer for the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance. We're told very often, colleagues, you've applied here, you're obstructing the adoption of this bill. And by the way, I've given 80 lashes, and I don't insist on any of them, because I've taken a constructive position. But I understand other colleagues. Yeah, well, I have an offer, let's make the next time we submit, we'll submit two separate bills, one about the security sector and the defence sector, and the other about everything else and look at them separately. And then we'll be able to go through the security and defence bill very quickly. This is a constructive offer. In general, our faction supports this bill because we understand that money needs to be allocated already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u300	Thank you. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, I understand that we don't make the rest of your amendments. Thank you. It's constructive. 261 repairs, Batenko. Don't insist. And that's all Ironborn, Tsabal. I'm filming. 266ths, 267ths, 268ths, 269ths, 270ths. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u301	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Rocksolana Andriyevna, our question is coming back. What's with the 224? Three million dollars for Minfin? Where are you going with this money? This is the third time I've asked a question. I can't say no, with all due respect. Just tell me where they're going, what needs. Where else does Minfin sit and fight for the independence of the state on which the front lies? In the Zacarpathic Cauldron? In the Ivano-Frankow environment? No, no, I know, I can ask you another way: where were the first two months? Ask such a question? All right. That's why we pay them 223 million. Right? So I would like to understand where this money is going. You're the responsible person, you're the head of the committee, you voted for it in contrast to us, you can't answer that. Or let's put up with this position, let's pay off, let's be faithful, let's invest money for the treasury, or let's say, please, what you're directing this money to. There's a minister of finance, if I'm not mistaken, I don't see Sergey Mikhailovich or he's not in the hall. Yes. I think he can tell if you don't have enough information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u302	Thank you. The following are 271, 272nd, 273rd, 274th, 275th. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u303	You can be taken in for recon, you won't give up anything. You know, like in an old anecdote, I won't say anything because I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u304	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u305	You'd say it in a microphone. After I've finished. Ruslan Alexiyovich, her eyes show that she knows and wants to say something. Well, let's face it. I'd still like to understand. 223 million — What Needs? We can play silent for a long time, I'll ask that question. We're not on the exam. I'm sure you know. If you don't know, you could already find out over this period of time and give an answer. Where do you go for a quarter, almost a quarter of a billion dollars? Where did they go? Where will they go? For what needs? Maybe there's good stuff, let's work it out. Perhaps there is a need for people to be compensated for their risky jobs. Rocksolana Andriyevna, tell Ruslan Alexiyovich what you're saying, he just didn't know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u306	Rocsolana Andrienne, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u307	Well, first of all, I really liked your wording: where did you share that money? Not yet. All the money in a single treasury account. I answer you. The State Treasury Service is targeting 51.6 million dollars, the State Audit Service 185.4 million dollars. Both of these programs, in their territorial divisions, are paid with rising rates in the territorial frontal divisions. Now you're going to ask how many people in the audience are working in the frontal regions. I'll tell you right now. I don't know yet. But I think it's a couple more hours, and we'll find out.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u308	Beautiful. There used to be a movie show called "I Want to Know All." Let's move on, dear fellows. Amendments: 276, 277, 278, 279, 280. That's what we just told them. I'm sorry, we already said that. Next. Ah, 281, Iron. 82nd, Iron Man, with the Cabal. 284th. Dmitri Alexanderovich, yours. 284th, 285, 286th, 287th, 288th. This block of five, please, Dmitri Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u309	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. You mentioned the magazine "I want to know everything," I think it's a good thing. But our session and what's going on right now is kind of like another movie show called "Eralash." Because the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u310	Each of his heroes, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u311	Probably. Unfortunately, these aren't my heroes, but we have what we have. Roxanne Andriyevn, with all due respect, you accepted on the committee, you voted for it, allocating money. You're a professional, aren't you? You've allocated money, and now you're telling us we don't know who, we don't know how many, we don't know how it's gonna go, we're gonna know in a few hours. Then let's take this law off, learn not only in this position, but in another position, and then vote. That would make sense. Is that right or wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u312	Thank you. The following are 289, 290, 291, 292, 293. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u313	Ruslan Alexiyovich, are there 226 national deputies in the hall? It's just that I'm going to be putting on voting rights soon, and there's no colleagues, there's problems under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u314	What's the problem with the Rules, Dmitri Alexanderovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u315	And to make decisions, if less than 226 are not possible, and there is a decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u316	There is no such article in the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u317	There is a decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u318	Dmitri Aleksandrovich, let's do it as amended, we'll stick to the Rules. Okay? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u319	You're the one who's always supporting the Constitution. It's an important body.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u320	I'm sure I can't argue with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u321	You see.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u322	Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich, come closer to the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u323	And how many people are there, Ruslan Alexiyovich, and I can ask as a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u324	I don't know. Count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u325	So let's do the signal.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u326	Let's just say it's the head's right to bet or not, and your right to report on the amendments. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich. We've completed this question. Let's move on. Okay. 294, 295, 296, 297, 298, 299. It's the Ironman with the Cabal and the Kid. 300th, same thing, 301th, 302nd. Dmitri Alexanderovich, you're up. 302th, 303rd, 304th, 305th, 306th, if I'm not mistaken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u327	Ruslan Alexiyovich, a minute. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u328	From 302 to 306, Dmitri Alexanderovich, yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u329	302-306. Rocsolana Andriyevne, we're giving the Secretary to Kabmin. In this regard, to whom do we set out, also for treasury, for whom? Please give me an answer. Ruslan Alexiyovich wants to answer to the committee head, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u330	If he wants, I can't stop him.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u331	So you're asking me?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u332	That's what I'm asking, if you want, please. No, you can limit yourself to what the committee rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u333	No, look, these are the people who work at the Cabinet. You, as national deputies, when we voted on the budget in 2023, when, I recall, I was not yet the chairman of the committee, why we put a much smaller amount into the work of the Cabinet Secretary. If we don't pay them, they'll split up. And I don't think the Cabinet of Ministers will be able to make any decisions. By the way, if you could take this opportunity, I would like to ask you, Dmitri Alexanderovich, after this conversation today, you might be able to propose my candidacy as Prime Minister, because I am responsible to you today for all the state bodies that exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u334	Dear colleagues, I'm looking, we're about to go to different polls. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Demchenko Sergei, please. 307th, if. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please be quiet. National MP Demchenko, 307-312. Do I get it right? Do you have a few minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u335	Let's do 307 first.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u336	Let's do it one at a time. 307, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u337	Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellows! I realize that someone has more important things to do than the Supreme Council, but right now, the issue is probably a pretty important one, in the context of war, we're looking at a state budget for the military. And when we don't even have 100 deputies in this room right now, and we understand, and the Head of the Supreme Council also understands that none of the issues will be voted positively, I think it's already a disgrace and a shame for the entire Supreme Council. Nevertheless, I propose to announce today's recess, to the Head of the Supreme Council, to take advantage of his obligation under article 27 of the Rules, which provides for the responsibility of the organization and the consideration of matters in accordance with the Rules. And the Rules provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u338	Dear colleagues, Demchenka's 307 amendment is rejected by the committee. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:18:32]] For-34 The decision is not taken. In accordance with the 27th Rules, I call on the people's deputies to take their seats and to continue their consideration of this issue. Let's move on. Next 308th, please update.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u339	Give me three minutes and six straights.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u340	Let's do three minutes and six straights.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u341	Thank you. Unfortunately, it is a second shame when the Head of the Supreme Council does not hear the address of the national deputy. Ruslan Alexiyovich, you're wrong. As far as I'm concerned. I'll say they apply to Ukrainian citizens, like most of the rules that we vote with you here, to those Ukrainian citizens that we now every day at the beginning of the war point out that they have an obligation to protect our country, they have an obligation. But we need to understand that if our nation does not carry out our duty to these citizens, it becomes a proper misunderstanding: and for what reason should these citizens do their duty? What are we talking about? At the beginning of the war, the government made an appropriate decision on payments to military, other primary and military warehouses of other organs corresponding to 30,000 dollars, first of all from February 2022. Those who would receive these additional payments are members of the Judicial Service. They had this right, but the State did not accept its obligation to this day. Failure to accept this obligation forced these citizens to go to court, and they received positive decisions in court. But again, the Cabinet of Ministers said, no, let the Supreme Court confirm these decisions. Today, the Supreme Court has already confirmed, there is a case in point. A model decision on a model matter that has no choice but to fulfill its duty, its guarantees, to comply with the law, and to pay the appropriate citizens the right amount. But what do we have today? Quiet again. Quiet with hope of that, I don't understand. The hope that the State will cease to exist and that this obligation will thus be fulfilled or what? It's got to be a shame, I say again. The country must fulfill its responsibility and its guarantees to its citizens if we are to require them. to protect our country and to fulfill their responsibility. These amendments are about this, about these costs, for the country to voluntarily pay these costs, and thus to confirm that it is capable of being accountable to its citizens. Thank you. Please put all the amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u342	Thank you. 308 amendment of the Demchenka People's Demchenka People's Demchenka. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:21:37]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. 309 amendment of the Demchenka People's Demchenka People's Demchenka. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:21:58]] For-39 The decision is not taken. 310 Amendment of the Demchenka People's Demchenka People's Demchenka. Please vote. She's been rejected by the committee. [[15:22:19]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Let me finish the vote on Demchenko's amendments. 311 Demchenka repairs. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:22:46]] For-45 The decision is not taken. And 312 People's Demchenka. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:23:06]] For-47 The decision is not taken. It was a 312 amendment. Please, from Arthur Volodymyrovich's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u343	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, there is now a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and, as far as I am concerned, there are meetings of committees now being held, or are there going to be meetings of committees. You and I both know that under the Supreme Council regulations this is forbidden. So I'm asking you, in order for the deputies to return to the hall, right now just to put it, as they say, in the form of not violating the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u344	Arthur Volodymyrovich, look, I heard this information. I don't know how reliable she is. You know what during the sitting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can I finish? I know that during a meeting of the Supreme Council, committees may be held only on behalf of the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council has not voted on such an assignment today, so I ask that you inform the heads of the committees that have now decided to assemble their committees during the High Council meeting that they are in violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, to return immediately to the workplaces of those who have done so. Thank you. Let's move on. Next. Well, you're smart people's deputies. Please, let's move on. 313, 314, 315, 316, 317. Dmitry Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u345	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Rocksolana Andriyevna is Sergey. Is there a Marchenko? There's Sergei Mikhailovich. I think you can ask him. They're getting extra funding for the Ministry. Where will they go? It's not a secret. We can't allow as an exception, I understand that it's not for the Minister of Finance to answer, but nevertheless, it would be the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u346	Look, it's not according to the Rules, but if you don't mind, I'll have this brief, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u347	I don't think my colleagues will, I'll be grateful if we hear the answer. Perhaps the minister will answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u348	Minister of Finance. I give him my word, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u349	Dmitri Alexander, do you hear me? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u350	Turn on the minister of finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u351	Do you hear me? Thank you. Thank you so much for asking. With all due respect to the MPs, I'd like to say that there's actually an increase in expenditures on the Chief of Staff of the Ministry of Finance. For several hours now, Rocksolana Andriyovn has been trying to explain why. I'm fully prepared to support every word by Roxolan Andriyevn, because it's really about the State Audit Service -- 185 million dollars, the State Treasury Service -- 51 million dollars. These funds were aimed at paying off additional coefficients to the employees of these organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u352	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next 318 is an amendment. Mikisha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u353	Mrs. Roxolana, I'd like to reflect on the legal process. Let's be honest and fair, no pay from the national MPs is going to be taken down, that is. And where they come from, except for colleagues who are unfortunately no longer with us, that's all. So it's going to be done, removed from legal activity. It's different. I understand when we're transferring funds to the Armed Forces and our army and fighting corruption, but I don't understand when we're taking money off the High Anti-Corruption Court. And the argument is that they have too much wealth in the hands of judges, well, judges, maybe not too little wages, but let's not forget about the equipment, and about other workers who get very little money, and the WACS (Higher Anti-Corruption Court) in this is not an exception. And we're still taking it. This right is to add 5 million to their activities, not to the salaries of the judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, so that the court will work properly and plant corrupters behind bars. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u354	Vote bets, right? I'm betting on a vote of 318 Mikisha's amendment. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:27:54]] For-48 The decision is not taken. The next 319 is an amendment. Mikisha, will you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u355	Yes. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. It's very similar to the previous one, but in this case there was no such line at all -- to add more money to the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. I repeat, once again, apart from adding our troops, our Armed Forces, the security and defence forces, I believe that we should first add to those units that are watching over inefficient, inefficient use of funds, and above all those costs that can be stolen and lost. And so it's absolutely logical to add more money to the Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and all the anti-corruption verticals. This amendment is aimed at increasing others there, taking them to Kabmina, others to make the SAP work properly and they have normal costs for their activities. Therefore, please also support and put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u356	Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u357	Dmitry Sergiyovich, the average monthly salary of SAP’s prosecutor is 145,000 dollars. Do you really think that some of the Ukrainians who are watching us today are condescending to the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office that we didn't add money to them?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u358	Dear colleagues, 319 amendments to Mikishi's authorship. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:29:43]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Next, 320th, 321st, 322nd, 323rd, 324th amendment. Dmitry Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u359	Dear colleagues, you know, to me. Thank you, Sergey Mikhailovich, Rocksolana Andriyevna. But we figured out where 100, 51 plus 51, and what's two hundred? Right, 272. Where else are you going? I understand that as long as you don't do anything, you'll be sharing it after you've passed this law. But where are the others? Where's 171, one, yes, 171 million? I think that's how we're going to get to the end of the session, and then logically, we're going to figure out where they went. Maybe Sergey Mikhailovich will be able to answer that question too if colleagues allow it and do not deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u360	Sergei Mikhailovich, the force of yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u361	Dmitri Alexandrovich, with all my love, I respectfully answer a very important question. If you can, please make these numbers so I don't have to repeat them again. See, this is what the increase is going to be. State Audit Service – 185 million 406 thousand 500 plus, State Treasury Service – 51 million 675,000 400 plus, Ministry of Finance – 37 million 707 thousand 200 plus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u362	Thank you. We've completed a group of fun maths, let's move on. Dear colleagues, 325 amendments, Fedina Sofia Romanovna. It doesn't, does it? Oh, Friz, please, Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u363	Thank you. 325 revisions. We ask you to complete the changes to the 11080 Budget Programme "Preparation of higher education staff with specific learning conditions" and increase the spending of the general fund on this programme by 191 thousand dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u364	Dear colleagues, 325 amendments, by Fedina and Friz. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:32:36]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 326, Bondar. Big guy, please. Bigwich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u365	Dear colleagues, we're talking about the 24-year budget as a security and defense budget. If we're talking about this 326th amendment, we're talking about the need to prepare quality officers for law enforcement, because that's our security, that's what we need right now. So I have a request and I'm asking all my colleagues to support this amendment so that we can further fund this amendment and allocate additional funds. I would like to remind you that it was just a recently signed law under which cadets received more money than they had been before. So this is just the closure of that hole that's going to be in higher institutions with a special form of learning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u366	Yes, 326 revisions. The committee's dismissed. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. This is the authorship of Bondar and Veliczovich. 326 revisions. Please vote. [[15:33:58]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 327. Ariev or Herasimov. Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u367	Dear colleagues, if we're talking about a military budget, let's really do the expenses that are needed to defend it, but we're not going to hide the inside of an increase in salaries for officials. Because what we're doing today is actually literally me for a few months, and we're not going to have anything to pay at all. And you know very well why. You know the situation that has arisen in the United States as one of ours today, we will call our names, our main donors. And you know that we are required to carry out reforms. We sit in the Supreme Council for four days a month. Let's get back to the normal schedule of work of the Supreme Council and take care of reforms. Because what we share can soon become the skin of an unkilled bear. Because there's just gonna be nothing to share, nothing to share. Thank you. You can't put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u368	The next amendment is 328. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u369	Alexei Hotcharenko. Friends, well, I want to tell you that we have to help our military and young officers who will soon become such military officers. We've been under the impression that the Supreme Council has been looking at other issues for a long time. I have a question for our government. I'm sorry I don't see the Prime Minister now. As it turns out, our law, which entered into force on June 30, was signed by the President, has entered into force, and so far, there is still no execution in the payments to senior military teachers. And there's numbers, well, frankly, they're pathetic. Today they have a scholarship of 600 dollars, some 500. And we're giving 2,350 is going to be. Well, it's not much money either. But even for the fourth month, we cannot begin to pay in a tremendous effort. The N.D.S.U.P.D., the police, the D.S.N.S. is still waiting. You can't do that. Pass the money to the classmates, to the young officers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u370	Put it to a vote? 328 repairs to the potter. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:36:41]] For-37 The decision is not taken. The next amendment to Iron, Clapuk Cabal, is the same 330th, 331st. 332, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u371	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I will continue my opinion. There is no way to vote for this bill. Once again, there's not enough under the cover of military spending, which is really necessary, officials get extra money, and often, let's be honest, incomprehensible, to the point of being honest. So in addition, this money, the key source of expenditure, is almost 207 billion, and it's still being hidden, and I'll say again, it's from the PDF. I mean, anyone who's sitting in this room with "The Servant of the People," if you're told that the PDFO doesn't touch this bill, it's a lie. Because it touches directly, more specifically, this bill touches the PDF directly because the local budgets, because of this bill, not the next 37, will be without money. If anyone, especially one of the majors, wants to do that, vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u372	Thank you. Can we not put, Arthur Volodymyrovich? Put it in? Let's move on then. 333rd. Shall we? Then 332 revisions were made by Gerasim, Pauline, and Potter. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:38:29]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Next: 333, 334, 335, 336, 337. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u373	Thank you, Sergey Mikhailovich, he was finally able to answer the questions. And again, it's not clear why 37 million on Minfin, but we're not going to torture the Ministry anymore. Roxolano Andriyovno, you remembered voting for the budget, well, unfortunately, you voted for the budget, and we were just telling you our "Smart Politics" team that there were a lot of gaps. Because right now we have to correct those mistakes that were made, including you, not as the head of the budget committee, but as the national deputy who voted for it. And this is another way to confirm that such important bills need to be approached in a comprehensive manner. You can't have such large tables for a thousand last-minutes, or we won't be able to learn them. And then you'll come back and say that we didn't put extra money into different ministries. And back to your proposal for the Prime Minister. You know, surprisingly, unlike many colleagues, you're learning what you're saying. It's really surprising, in the good sense of that word. So we will definitely support you as Prime Minister. I don't think that's going to add much to that. But I think those who stay in the room and really work will be ready to vote. First of all, I suggest you take the signatures for the resignation of the acting prime minister, we sign them, and you'll have a good chance of taking his position. I think it's the right thing to do, look, you're supporting it, so let's move on. And I hope that this question will not be delayed; it will appear in the walls of the Supreme Council very quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u374	Rocksolana Andriyevna, what can you say about the amended numbers: 332 and 333, 334, 335, 336, 337. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u375	They're being rejected by the committee, and I suggest we keep them rejected. And as for Dennis Anatoliovich Schmigal, I think he's a very good prime minister and he's doing very well with his duties. And maybe I'll replace it later.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u376	The next 338 amendment, Fedina Sofia Romanovna. None. Friz Irina Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u377	Thank you, Mr. Head. 338 revisions, it's about increasing the funding of the State Border Service. You know, we all know how to publicly sing difirambs to our border guards, and so far, when we come to a budget or a budget change for the current year, we're constantly forgetting them because they're either not running, or they haven't made it, or they haven't been able to prove their position. We suggest that the task, function and training of DSS personnel be increased by 24,800 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u378	338 Amendment of the authorship of Fedina and Friz. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:42:23]] For-36 The decision is not taken. 339 amendment, National Deputy Bondar. Big guy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u379	Dear colleagues, when we speak of the forces of defense that fight on the front, we certainly mention the border guards. And this category of soldiers, who first met the enemy of the 24th and the spring of 2014, met the enemy first. And so it's very important that we prepare quality footage so that we can provide enough funding to train new officers, those who will continue to stand on the border, those who are now at war. And I think it's fair that we add 25 million to their training, this only academy in Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u380	Dear colleagues, 339 amendments. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:43:41]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 340. Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u381	Please, we're talking about that we need to increase the spending of almost 200 million dollars for the State Security Authority. That is, we should all be protected by the MPs, by the government, by the President, and that is more expensive. But we haven't found an opportunity to increase expenses, especially for border guards, some of them, they protect very dangerous areas. I propose that we add 25 million dollars to the Ukrainian State Border Service. Again, once again, let's not share the money in the budget, but let's do some reforms to save the sources of revenue at all, because the next few months we can find ourselves without the help we need today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u382	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u383	Volodymyr Igorovich, we're increasing spending on the State Border Service by 20 billion 400 million dollars. This is hundreds of times more than the needs of the State Guard.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u384	Thank you. Is there a need to vote? None. Let's move on. Next amendment 341. Honcherenko Alexiyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u385	Dear Mr. Head, there are two amendments, I ask two minutes, and then one vote, it'll be easier.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u386	Please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u387	Thank you. Friends, this is also about the border guards, because we see the government's approach. BEBU (Economic Security Bureau) adds money. I understand that the baby has to lead us to victory. What it really leads us to, we know, we see corruption, we see harassment from our entrepreneurs. We see a complete lack of economic policy when we don't understand and what is the top priority. And the top priority should be the job. And if we were to protect these jobs, then, yes, we would have economic results. Instead, we're creating an infinite number of bodies that are harassing, just destroying business. Let's stop this and instead give money to those who really need it. I would certainly like to remind you of our decision with you, the 10th April Ukrainian Parliament passed a bill in which I returned the 30th, the 30th, the 30th, the 30th, and the military, all the police, all the rescue workers. What? Half a year has passed, my friends, six months, and during this six-month period, this law has already been passed, a law that has been blocked by a speaker, you, Mr. Ruslane, not signed. Why don't you vote on Mr. Cabal's ruling for six months? What you've come up with is that it's a mechanism to hide laws. Did you just bring it in and never look at it now? Well, it's wrong, it's a violation of the Rules and it's a violation of common sense, and it's a mistreatment of people who are waiting for our decision. We bring the Order of the Cabal to shame, we break it down. You sign it, you send it to the President. The Commander-in-Chief cannot go against the military, he signs. All right, that's a hell of a question. And the money for this is taken from all kinds of babies.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u388	Alexyyyovich, you know, I think somewhere. I don't know when your birthday is, and I'm going to give you a nice little book called "Regulatory," so you can read it again. And once again, I emphasize to everyone, the Head of the Supreme Council, neither his First Deputy nor his Deputy, are asking questions in the agenda, this is solely the competence of the Conciliation Council. Any question raised is the Conciliation Council. It's so easy to understand how the Supreme Council works. Let's move on. And one vote, which one are you, 341? 341th, I'm putting 341th Amendment to the People's Deputies of Honcharenko. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:48:25]] For-29 The decision is not taken. From the procedure? Please, Irina Volodymyr, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u389	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we see that there are fewer than 30, possibly deputies left in the hall. And most of those left behind are representatives of European Solidarity. We're here to support the candidate, yes, we understand, next from the "servant" to the post of Prime Minister Mrs. Roxolan Podlas, she's been standing behind the rostrum for several hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u390	Turn off the microphone, please. Let's move on. National Guard. Ah, this is 346th, 347th, 348th, 349th, 350th. Dmitri Alexanderovich, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u391	Ruslan Alexiyovich, as a relationship with the future prime minister, I propose to move on immediately. Prime Minister, I'm sorry. Sorry, Rocksolana Andriyevna. I'm sorry. Go to 376, and they'll have to be put to the vote. And turn it on, please, two minutes from the beginning, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u392	One second, Dmitri Alexanderovich, other authors are coming. You're not doing this yet, are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u393	If you don't mind, then let me do the speech, and then I'll return it to my colleagues who are leaving early. I don't think they'll mind, because I've already started.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u394	We'll be lost, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u395	All right, then let's go to my office. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u396	Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u397	Dear colleagues, with regard to the Rules – Ruslan Alexiyyovich – you simply mentioned, it is immediately placed in the Hall as soon as it is prepared by the Committee. This is not even influenced by Conciliation. As well as the personnel matters raised in the hall, they are not approved by the Conciliator. You know that very well, I'm sure you know the Rules very well. So unfortunately, colleagues are right, and this decision would have to be made in the hall. And as for this bill, well, I still don't fully understand why the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine we're funding extra, and all the other structures, like the Supreme Council's apparatus, we're taking them off. I don't mind, I do, but the simple question is, what's the logic and what's the right approach? We either take it off, and it's the right thing to do, and we're redistributing it to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, because this selective approach gives rise to fear that there's something unclean and these funds are going to be sent back to eggs of 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u398	Thank you. The next is 351 revisions. Fedina, Friz, who's it gonna be? Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u399	Thank you, Mr. Head. Well, actually, really, we did apply for copyrights in co-authorship with Sofia Fedina. Unfortunately, she's not in the hall right now because she has to protect our scout, Roman Czervinsky's hero in court. At the same time, as I return to the amendment, I would like to point out that the title of the bill speaks for itself, namely the state budget to address priority issues and the financial security of the security and defence sector. So in order to provide financial security for the security and defence sector, we propose 50 million to transfer to the National Guard of Ukraine and increase spending on the global fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u400	We're voting, aren't we? I put to the vote 351 amendments to the authorship of Fedina and Friz. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:52:26]] For-27 The decision is not taken. 352, Bondar. From the procedure? Arthur Volodymyrovich, procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u401	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, see, today, as I recall, the Conciliation Council did not vote for us to work for more than four hours today. This was discussed, but it was not voted on, and the Conciliation Board did not take such a decision. That's why, from the point of view of safety and security, from the point of view of anything else, I don't even mention KZOT, yes, now that doesn't apply to the people's MP, as we know. So a big request, now to finish this story, because I want to say that the majority is almost absent in the room, and to announce a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u402	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Did you pick up from the procedure, Andrew Viktorovich, or did I think? Andrew Viktorovich Motovilovac, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u403	Look, we want to make statements with the "Serial of the People" faction, what other factions are now hitting on the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, calling it Prime Minister, is harassment. Please turn off the microphone immediately. Because, please, professional work is a performance on the readout, but now it's called bullying the head of a committee that does its job professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u404	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you anyway. Yeah. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask, yes, let's follow the rules and ethics. Please. Please, Irina Volodymyrna, are you out of procedure? Let's get out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u405	Thank you. It's very strange when a woman claims to be prime minister, it's called harassment. We think it's a normal story in a European country. Mr. Ruslan, we're sorry that you're demonstrating double standards, not unplugging the microphone from the procedures of your colleagues in a monotonous way, and doing this to the women's representatives of "European Solidarity." We just want to show solidarity here with Mrs. Roxolana, who's already four hours from the rostrum very professionally, by the way, represents amendments to the draft budget, unlike very many fellow servants who can't comment on them. We do not agree with Mrs. Roxolani's position, but we do note that she answers the question. And we suggest we announce a 15-minute break so that both Roxolana and those deputies who are here and working here can just take this break. Please, this is our faction's request to announce a recess for 15 minutes. And in fact, the Supreme Council of Ukraine always, when it was operating in normal mode, had a four-hour break so that it could be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u406	Unfortunately, since 24.02 we've been working in an out of order, Irina Volodymyrna, if anyone has forgotten. Rocsolana Andriyovna, do you need to take a break in this? Please. None. Thank you. Let's go, 352 revisions. Please, Big Boy, I understand, don't I? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u407	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, this is a bill that we have filed with Michael Bondar, who is a veteran of the National Guard, who is currently in the court of Roman Czervinsky. And this right here is about funding the training of National Guard personnel. I'd like to point out one more time that if the budget is on the 23rd and the 24th. The budgets of the 23rd, 24th years are the budgets of war, so we need to support the training of personnel for our troops. I would like to remind you that several new National Guard brigades need good officers. So please support the allocation of 50.5 million extra to fund the training of the National Guard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u408	352 revisions of Bondar and Veliczovich's authorship. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:56:44]] For-32 The decision is not taken. The next 353 revisions. Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u409	In principle, it would not be possible to do so now if, in fact, a normal bill had been submitted by the government, which would take into account the very interests of national security and defence without stitching up unnecessary costs to increase the salaries of officials, to increase the costs of the Bureau of Economic Security, which is close to zero if it is not negative, which is simply completely and completely submerged into corruption schemes, including those that are already going to the military. And these things are already being considered on a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council. So I suggest that we go to the real reforms that we have on the list to build a normal democratic country, or else we all lose.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u410	353 Arrive’s Amendment The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:58:17]] For-29 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 354. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u411	Thank you. There are two amendments to 354 and 55. I'll have two minutes and one vote at a time. So it's about.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u412	Give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u413	Thank you. It's about the National Guard and it's about adding funds. I'm explaining why they're clearly necessary, because the National Guard is fighting unlike the Bebs, the drums, the serials that the state is finding money on. But it's about another language at all. We have a very serious question: it's a question of demobilization, it's a question of justice, because, friends, we've got people on the front, and there are people who don't see it, and they don't even want to hear about it. And today we don't even give people a chance, the light at the end of the tunnel. I mean, they, the ones that were mobilized, those who voluntarily went to rescue the Motherland a year and a half ago. Yeah, we're saying, these are our heroes, the metal people. Metal's getting tired. Many of these people are tired, and we need to consider giving them the right to return after a certain period of service. And there's been a bill in the Supreme Council for over six months on demobilization after 18 months of service. Okay. Maybe in the discussion, let's not give it 18, let's give it 24 months of service, but let's do something already, because there can't be a way in, there's no way out. Because it can't be that the way out of the defense force is just the 200th or the 300th. Well, it's not fair, it's unfair, we're losing these people. And how they are fighting, and how hard they are today, and how their families are. Those who are willing to go on fighting are honor, gratitude, respect, gratitude. But those who are tired, let us save them and lay their shoulders on them, as they once did, a year and a half ago, they set their shoulders on the state. We will help them today to keep on, and five, ten years later, they will save the Fatherland if necessary. We need to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u414	354 repairs, Goncharenko. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[16:00:58]] For-29 The decision is not taken. The following amendments from 356 to 361 are Iron, Clapuk, Cabal. They took their amendments as far as I could tell. Next amendment. Necluded has already reported on his amendments. Next, 363rd. It's a mental correction. Then 363, 364, 365, 366, 367. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u415	Dear colleagues, at 15:45 a.m., a rocket struck Kupiansk, at the grocery store, where at least 48 people were killed. One of them is a six - year - old. And, first of all, I'm asking everyone now for a minute of silence to mention the dead. And secondly, I'm asking everyone to think about who we're giving 91 million for maintenance.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u416	Please sit down. 368 revisions. Fries, please. Friz. Turn on the microphone, please. People's Deputy Fries. Please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u417	Thank you, Mr. Head. 368, it refers to transferring this year to the budget programme 1007020, which deals with ensuring the activities of the bodies, institutions and institutions of the National Police, and increasing their consumption costs from the general fund by 24 million. I'd like a few arguments, because in fact you and I all have a very clear idea of what a great burden lies on Nazpol, especially in the occupied territories. So I'm confident that the additional funding of the National Police this year will also be more necessary than funding for the 200 million Kabmin analytical department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u418	Please, Podlasa.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u419	I just want to point out, first of all, that we're giving the National Police 19 billion dollars. And secondly, I'm asking the chairman to allow Cubbit Yuri Mikhailovich five minutes to replace me in the rostrum. Kubbit Yuri Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u420	Why do you get angry before I do that? It's like a new method such that. Prevention. Exactly. I forgot that word, Sergey Volodymyrovich, thank you for being intimidated. Yes, please, we have a free visit to the hall. You can go in, you can go in. Please put to the vote number 368 of the National MP of the Sofia Romanovna and Friz Irina. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. On the count of 368. [[16:05:24]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. The next 369, National Deputies Bondar and Veliczovich. Please, who's it going to be? Big guy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u421	Respectful colleagues who are in the east or in territories that are free of the racists have seen how much more there is than just to carry on the service of men in uniform. And very often this burden lies on police officers who are forced to serve 24/7 and have to carry their services under very difficult conditions. And so it's very important that we allocate additional funding for the preparation of new personnel, it's about the officers that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in a year or two, are going to go out in the service, and in the conditions of war that they're going to be preparing as officers, they're going to understand what and why and how it's going to be in the country. Please support the additional funds, allocate the resources to prepare the National Police personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u422	Thank you. Give it to Cubbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u423	Colleagues, I will, with your permission, simply find out the committee's decision without comment until the head comes back. Your readjustment is dismissed. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u424	I'm betting on the vote number 369 for the National Deputies of Bondar, Velichovich. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:07:12]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Next issue is number 370 of Ariev’s National Deputies, Gerasimov, Chigoza. Who will report? Arthur Volodymyrovich. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u425	I understand that putting something to a vote in a room where there are no more than 50 national deputies, in principle, there is no point. And it's a shame that we can't have this budget discussion before it starts to get pretty. And what's not beautiful is what's happening now that they're trying to put into the budget a lot of expenses that people won't like, but they're going to make the sign beautiful: for national security and defense. I want to stress one more time. We're at a crossroads right now: either we're starting reforms and we're restoring the trust of our partners who are funding our spending of over 50 percent, or we're at risk of losing our country in general. So let's move on to real work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u426	Thank you. Will there be a committee position? Okay. I am betting on the vote number 370 of Ariev’s national deputies and colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. Don't you need to put it on? Okay. Okay. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u427	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Since the Conciliation Board is in closed session, I would like to find out what decision has been taken by the Conciliation Board by which time the meeting will take place. Just to know how to plan your work day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u428	If I don't have memory, it's been decided not before the 15th, but before the law is reviewed. That's what it sounded like. Arthur Volodymyrovich, that's what it sounded like. That's what it sounded like. Please use the Gerasim procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u429	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, look, there's the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in terms of the state of war, and so, at the tenth call, remember, we accepted. Thus, paragraph 7 of this decree states that the length of time to deal with matters of order each day after the adjournment of the current plenary meeting is determined by the Conciliation Council. The Conciliation Board did not take the decision. I didn't. She didn't vote for that decision, that's what happened. It may have been discussed, but such a decision was not made. So I have a big request, if this decision has not been taken, and there is a meeting coming up, then finish it in accordance with the rules that we have previously voted on on on the same Conciliation Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u430	What decision was made, in your opinion, by the Conciliation Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u431	On this Conciliation Council, no decision was taken on the subject at all. That's why we're asking you to call a break right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u432	Okay. 371th, Honcharenko Aleksyyyyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u433	Thank you. I'm very glad to have Mr. President of the Supreme Council back. We have a discussion with him about the Rules. I don't think you know the Rules, I just don't believe it. Because you may have made such a joke, and the joke is, I don't think it's a good one, because it's about returning 30 to all the military personnel. And here I have the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, article 48, please. After a draft decision had come that had been stopped, about the Cabal, about the annulment of the Supreme Council's decision, within three days, no later than three days from the date of receipt of the draft decision, it was sent to the Regulatory Committee, and he was preparing a conclusion on the appropriateness of its adoption. It went away, they did it in April. After considering the relevant draft decision of the Supreme Council on the Board of Regulators, the Supreme Council shall consider it in plenary session without voting on the inclusion in the agenda. Period. This is the Rules. No Conciliation Councils, nothing. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u434	You were right to say that there is a Supreme Council designated by the subject. The Supreme Council is represented in this matter in the formation of the agenda functionally by the Conciliation Council, as always. And this question is included in the agenda of the session, but not in the agenda of the sitting. So please let's learn more. I am so glad that you have already opened up and found an important item on the laptop, such as the Rules, that you continue to study it. Dear colleagues, 371 Hotcharyenka. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. Oh, you don't put it, sorry. Next 372. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please. And you, please, Alexei Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u435	Thank you. Dear Mr. Ruslane Alexiyovich, I once again read: "Article 48, paragraph 9, which regulates how the decisions on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council are being taken, on the annulment of this decision. Once again, the regular committee reviewed Mr. Cabal's ruling in April, long ago. And so he had to do it in three days. He did it later, too, God be with him. Next. They concluded. Next. The Supreme Council, without a vote on inclusion in the agenda, shall consider it in plenary session. It does not include the day’s session, but it is discussed in the plenary session. It is clear that the committee's conclusion was reached, and the next session was put to the vote without a vote. All of it. And you came up with this mechanism, which is just to fool people, it's to bully people. You make a decision, but it's not there, because you don't skip to sign or send it to the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u436	Is there a need to vote 372 amendments? None. Let's move on. 373 revisions. Oh, that's Iron Man, the Kid and the Cabal, they took out all these amendments. 376th, Brainy. 376ths, 377ths, 378ths, 379ths, 380ths. Do I understand that, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u437	Ruslan Alexiyovich, these amendments will be put to the vote. It's a paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u438	You're all going to be, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u439	I think we'll put two together.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u440	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u441	They concern that the money 1.3 billion that is proposed to be allocated to the MFZ, redirected to the defence force, to the SSS, and redirected to the GUR that shows more than effective work, shows how to destroy the enemy, and how to avenge the terrible events that took place today when half a hundred people were killed and a little child died, that's from the previous data that no one really knows. I would like to remind you that this bill is called: financial security for the security and defence sectors and priority issues. Allocation of an additional 1.3 billion to the MIP is not a defence, and it's not a priority issue, it's an effort to ensure. What did the Secretary of the National Security Council say? Tourists? Travelers, then, may at their own expense drive and rest or pretend to work. I think it'll be fair. And now I just want to see again whether the Supreme Council will vote for this, or for the Supreme Council, the Ministry is much more important than the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We're going to look at who's voting for this and who's not, who's supporting the Armed Forces. Even though I understand that the result will be zero, because there are no people in the room, it's no one's interested, it's not about editing, it's about supporting the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u442	And what are you going to do about it or not, Dmitri Alexanderovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u443	The first two bets, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u444	Okay. 376th, 377th, I understand, right? I'm betting on 376 amendments to the authorship of Reasonable and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:16:29]] For-26 The decision is not taken. And then there's 377 amendments, and there's intellectuals, and there's colleagues. Similarly, the committee was rejected. Please vote. [[16:16:53]] For-26 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 381. Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u445	Thank you, Mr. Head. We have witnessed with you today enough emotional, violent, within the limits of such hysteria by the minister of finance that his rights here are exercised and he is not allowed to finance the security and defence sectors in a timely manner. I proposed this right, 381, to increase the general budget by 100,000, according to programme 1401010. Because if there is nothing left to finance, let us finance our expenses adequately and take them where we can avoid them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u446	Dear colleagues, 381 members of the people of the Federation and Friz. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[16:18:07]] For-22. The decision is not taken. 382th, please. Big guy, do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u447	Yes, Mr. Head. I want to agree with my colleague that let us support the financing of those external relationships, because, in the current circumstances, when it comes not only to borrowing money, not just lending, but also to questions about our commitments and how we will look at our partners in the world. Therefore, a request to support this amendment is made to increase funding by 91,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u448	382 revision of the authorship of Bondar, Veličkovich. The committee's dismissed. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:19:02]] For-21 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 383. Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u449	The number of people, of course, does not allow any decision on this amendment to be positive, even excludes this possibility. But I would like to point out that the diplomatic orientation for us now becomes one of the most important and, in principle, no less important than the direction of national security and defence, because that's where we're getting our breakthroughs. And these breakthroughs that took place during the vote for the temporary budget in the United States are the result of problems that we have almost no communication, a multi-level diplomatic communication with our American partners. So I urge you very much, the leadership of the Supreme Council to at least ensure that quality parliamentary diplomacy can function in this direction. Because this is now the number one challenge for Ukraine. We have to sit there in the watch method, in the United States.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u450	A word. Sorry, this is Amendment 383, the Committee rejected Ariev’s authorship and colleagues. Please vote. 383 revisions. [[16:20:36]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 384, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u451	Alexei Hotcharenko. This amendment to add money directly to our diplomatic front is very important. But I'd really like to draw our attention to what's going on. The United States Congress today is probably our main issue, because it has raised the issue and is not moving towards the allocation of additional funding to Ukraine. Congress is supposed to work for the MPs. I can tell you, since February 24, last year, I haven't taken any of my trips to any of my missions, none of them, but you, Mr. Ruslane, are stopping my trips abroad to work at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to observe the elections. You didn't let the deputies in the United States work with congressmen and senators, because no one is needed, just a monospectral by Vladimir Zelensky. The monospect is no longer working. You've led to serious problems, and you'll lead to disaster if you don't stop now and we won't start.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u452	Alexeiyyovich, I'm sorry, you're a liar, because in just a few days, you're going to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and when you're just driving around to check out, run to do selfies and so on, I don't think it's a big contribution to parliamentary diplomacy. There are no questions where you speak as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And that's why, and that's why, and that's why I'm saying again, that's why some members of your faction are on expeditions today, because they're in the task force. And by the way, I would like to remind all of you that there are 88 articles of the Constitution, and I highly recommend that you get to know it. I didn't mention you, I said Alexi. I said Alexi, Alexi's a lot. Let's move on. Let's move on. Please, Gerasimov. Next amendment 385. Goncharenko. Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u453	I'll talk to you fine. So the liar is you, you lie all the time from morning to night, I see it, because in May months you didn't sign me a trip to the PAREA conference. In May, you didn't sign my mission to observe elections in Turkey from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but it's probably a country. At the end of September, you didn't sign me a trip to Dublin, where there were meetings of the Presidential Committee of Paris, where I was supposed to represent the European Conservatives. You didn't sign, you're lying now, and you're competing with Daniel, which one of you is more tonguey. Danielov says that we are tourists in striped bathing suits. I want to tell you that we're going to see who's going to be in the throngs when it's all over, and we're going to have to answer for it. I promise you that. And get lost in words. I was sitting here, you know, still calm, liar. You're a liar.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u454	Alexiyyovich, I'm just going to give you a quick answer. All missions associated with your activities as a national MP in international relations have been signed. As far as your expeditions are concerned. Look, let's see, there's a culture to ask questions, there's a culture to hear the answer. I think that's what connects all the colleagues that are here. Now let's move on. As far as shipping is concerned. I don't think that's interesting in context 385 revisions are very important, but I told you. Those trips that you gave on May 9 to get signed on May 9th, of course I didn't sign. Of course, I did not sign those expeditions that you submitted to the Speakers’ Assembly because I represented Ukraine as a speaker. And I can count on each assignment, where you do the activity, no obstacles, neither I nor your colleague ever do. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next amendment 386. I would like us to move closer to the law rather than clarify some relationship that has already been said. 386th, 387th, 388th, 389th, 390th. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u455	Thank you. Dear colleagues, with regard to the amendment itself, she repeats the offer that she had made before. It offers 1.3 billion, who are somehow incomprehensiblely trying to transfer to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to the Armed Forces of Ukraine and GUR. That is, to further allocate 876 million to the Armed Forces of Ukraine and additionally allocate 876 million to the General Intelligence Directorate. I think they definitely deserve it. If all of us, from all the channels, from the single propaganda channel, the only marathon, sorry to tell you that we don't have shells, we need mines, we need to get our art shot in order to protect our defenders and help them move forward, and then into the hall to put in a bill that allocates almost a billion dollars to our MMS, it's not clear why that is. Let's, let's turn this money into an army, on the Armed Forces, on the GUR, and it'll make sense, because, as the Foreign Ministry works for us, looking at the change of attitude towards Ukraine in the European Union, not just the European Union, it's the feeling that it's better if they drive less and less talk, they'll treat us better and efficiency will be more effective. So let's provide effective – the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u456	Please, 391th, Friz, correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u457	Thank you, Mr. Head. The amendment refers to increasing the funding of our diplomatic institutions. We know that a few million Ukrainians are now abroad and under pressure on our consular institutions, and at the moment, there are tens of times more dissidents than there are large-scale invasions. We believe that the quality and adequate funding of our service will allow our Ukrainians, who are now abroad for a number of reasons, to have a closer relationship with the State and to receive all the necessary information and support from consular and diplomatic institutions on time. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u458	Thank you. I'm going to make this right now. Dmitry Alexanderovich, did you want to put up the last one? What's that? Turn on the Smart One he wanted to correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u459	Ruslan Alexiyovich, yes, we just talked and missed. Put 386th and 387th to the vote to see the result in the room again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u460	Dear colleagues, then I'm going to put it this way: 386th, 387th, and then Mrs. Irina 391th. Is there any objection? 386th, 387th and then in order. And so, I put 386 amendments, authorship of Reasonable and colleagues. It's rejected. Please vote. [[16:28:56]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Next 387, do I get it right? 387th Razumkov, and 391th, reported by Irina Fryz. It was 386, and now it's 387. Right? And then 391. I'll bet you 387 of Mindy's Amendment. Please vote. She's been rejected by the committee. [[16:29:30]] For -14 The decision is not taken. And 391, by Fedina and Friz. It's rejected. Please vote. [[16:29:50]] For-22. The decision is not taken. 392. Please, Bondar. Bigwich. Please, Big Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u461	Dear Mr. Head, I also wanted to raise the question of supporting our consular institutions abroad. But I also cannot speak now about the events that are now on social networks, when representatives of parliament, one representative of the majority, and another former representative of the majority are beating people on the street. It's on social networks. I think the police are going to take care of it very quickly and bring it to justice. You know, when people's deputies on the streets, like goons, break people's noses, I don't know why they're there, right or wrong, that's why the police are there. But doing self-government on the streets, you know, it's a crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u462	392 Bondar and Veliczovich's amendment. It's rejected. Please vote. [[16:31:01]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Next 393. Please, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u463	Even though our diplomats are not on the list of those who represent Ukraine, according to the Danilov version, and they are actually among tourists, but they actually represent Ukraine in accordance with the Law on the Diplomatic Service. But besides asking a little bit of them to add to my amendment, I would still like to refer to Parliament's leadership. We've come to the point where all the deputies who can work with our Western partners have to do it and do it all the time between our meetings and committee meetings. Finally, let's finish this stupid sailing whistle and open up every opportunity to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u464	393 Arrive’s Amendment The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[16:32:26]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Please, Hotcharenko, 394.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u465	I'd love to hear the reaction of the Chief of the Supreme Council and preferably the "Serial of the People" party, two of whose deputies are elected, "Serves of the People," Dmitrik and Kunicki, maybe some of them are present right now, please explain, this is what the whole of Ukraine is saying right now, that if they're both hitting some guy. You want to hear what's going on? He just got out of here? Well, that's how they run. There's nothing to tell. What's going on in the first place? Two Ukrainian MPs are hitting someone, I don't know what happened there, call the police. You have nowhere to use your power? But go to the Time of Jar or to Klischievka, use your power there if you have some kind of fool. Would you like to hear the response of "The Servants of the People," did you bring them here to Parliament? Did you set up deputies who beat Ukrainian citizens on the street?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u466	394 revision of the potcherenko, it's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:33:55]] For 20 The decision is not taken. 395th. Gerasimov, please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u467	Thank you. Dear colleagues from the "Serve of the People" who are still in the hall, there are not many of you, 32 people for the moment, but nevertheless. Why can't we vote for this bill? Let me draw that out. We've got an army at the Ministry of Culture that's got so much money to buy 184 moviks. There's 91 million available for the Ministry of Justice, 910 Maviks could be bought, 272 million to 2 000 727 Maviks can be bought. Moving on, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, there the textbooks are sacred, but 47 million, we now understand, went to the award of outstanding personalities in the field of science and culture. Well, where else is it? Now with regard to the State Property Fund of Ukraine. That's where the money comes from. Instead of buying 431 Maviks, we need drones, you know, we need to save people's lives, and they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u468	395 Gerasimov's amendment, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:35:28]] For 20 The decision is not taken. I saw Alexander Sergiyovich, where he, Bakumov, asked for the procedure. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u469	Mr. Ruslane Alexiyovich, Your Honorary Presidium, I have, as a national MP in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the duty to be present and personally to participate in the plenary session, to personally participate in the vote. I am doing this all day long, listening to the discussion, listening to the answers, and listening to the reasoning of colleagues who are subject to the legislative initiative. Such an uninterrupted number of votes, I believe it falls entirely under the 127th article of the Criminal Code of Ukraine as torture. I'm addressing you and I'm asking you to consider declaring a break for at least 10 minutes so that the responsible national deputies present here with me in the hall can meet their natural needs. Thank you for your attention, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u470	Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a 10-minute technical break. And I ask everyone to return to the hall. We work until we pass this beautiful bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] What does it all mean? Please have a little technical break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u471	Dear colleagues, thank you, the technical break is over. We're continuing our meeting. 397 Amendment, Ironborn. Him. They said they had already made use of their repairs. 398, by the way. And we had, I'm sorry, Honcharenko made the speech. 400th, Cabal. He used his amendment. 401, Cabal. Used the amendment; 402th, Cabal. I used it. Same as 403, 404th, 405th, 406th. These are all the changes of the Cabal. 407ths, 408ths, 409ths, 410ths, 411ths, 412ths, 413ths, 414ths, 415ths, Cabal. 416th, 417th, 418th, 419th, 420th, Cabal. 421st, Cabal, 422nd, Cabal. 423rd, 424th, 425th, 426th, 427th, 428th. I used it. 429th, 430th, 431th, 432rd, 433rd. Used. 434th, Cabal. 435th, 436th, 437th, 438th, 439th, 440th, 441th, Cabal. 442th, 443, 444th, 445th, Tzabal. 446th, 447th, 448th, 449th, 450th. The Tsabal used; 451, Fedina or Friz. Okay. Let's move on. Thank you. 452, Velitchovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u472	Dear colleagues, we have reached the right handrails that relate directly to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Therefore, I believe that we need to allocate additional funds to ensure the activities of the U.S.S.S.A., the training of military personnel, the medical provision of a special warehouse for military veterans and their families. It's very important because we're in the previous year, and in the 22nd year, and this year we're facing the fact that not only military personnel have enough attention to rehabilitate, but also their families, who also suffer with them. So we think it's necessary for the military to adapt properly later and return to society already adapted to it and members. and their families were also adapted along with their loved ones. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u473	452 repairs to Bondar, Veličkovich. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[16:52:40]] For-12. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 453. Ariev, please. Not Ariev - Herasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u474	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. For those of the "Serial of the People" factions, there are fewer than 30 people in the hall. Why can't we vote for this bill? There are so many bad things in it. First of all, this is where I start the conclusion of the GNEU. The project is not adequately supported by financial and economic justifications, as required by article 91 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, in particular on the possibility of providing additional revenue to the budget, and changes in the funding of the proposed budget programmes. Where am I going with this? We've asked this question a number of times: Where did the money come from? And what we understand is, they're from PDF in a large part of it, so they're from local budgets. That's why I'm addressing each of the majors again, and I'm going to name everyone in the "Serve of the People" who can't vote for this bill. Thank you. And please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u475	453 amendments, authorships of Potter and colleagues, excuse me, Gerasimov and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:54:12]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 454. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u476	Alexei Hotcharenko. This amendment envisions an increase of 218 million dollars in medical expenses for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, our heroes. It seems obvious that everyone should vote for it. Only the word "all," of course, in this sessional room sounds like bullying, because, well, there's now perhaps 30 MPs here that are hard to say. Where's everybody else? What are they so busy with? Maybe someone gets hit, maybe they get a constant somewhere, maybe they're working out some rest in Thailand, it's hard to say. They're not in the Supreme Council, and they don't care about that. I also promised the railways that I would raise questions about their salaries at the meetings of the Supreme Council. I mean, I'm doing it again. These are the people who carry our wounded, these are the people who carry the ammunition and the warhead. In doing so, it is embarrassing to say how much the driver is getting today, how much the driver is getting. Well, that's just bullying!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u477	The 454th amendment of the People's Chamber of Commerce was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:55:38]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Next 455th Amendment. As far as I can tell, the national MP, Mokan, asked me to introduce her. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u478	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I want to thank those who have stayed in the hall and are looking at the papers. This amendment increases the financing of our Ukrainian Armed Forces. To be precise, I just want to read it, because that's the purpose of the budget in 2023, which is to provide our security and defense forces. And the budget programme for which it is proposed to increase expenditure is called "Providing the activities of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, training of personnel and troops, medical provision of personnel, military veterans and members of their families, war veterans." And to be honest, we've based these changes on sources of funding based on optimisation of expenditure on other non-priority areas. They're all rejected. So first of all, it's interesting to know why. And secondly, I ask those few representatives who remain in the room to support this amendment. I'll put her to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u479	Please, Roxolano Andriyovno, if you want, respond to the 455th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u480	Yeah, if we've talked about this a lot in these four hours for 15 minutes that we're in the hall. In order to increase expenditures on the Ukrainian Armed Forces, it is necessary to increase the income of the state budget, the Ukrainian revenues paid by Ukrainian taxpayers, natural persons, and legal persons. Tomorrow you will be able to support Bill 10037 on the transfer of military PFCs to the state budget. And this is going to be an opportunity to use these funds for defense purposes. If we decide how the Supreme Council directs all PFCs from local budgets to government budgets, we can even raise expenditures on the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u481	Thank you. 455 amendments to the authorship of National MP Mokan, she's rejected by the committee, the arguments of the parties you've heard, please vote. [[16:58:11]] For-22. Decision taken. Next 456th, 457th, 458th, 459th. Duhtkov Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u482	As the colleagues rightly pointed out, it's a stable, stable shame, because there's no national MPs, they're not voting for budget changes in order to secure our Armed Forces. And it's a good thing you called it the law. And in fact, when our team offers instead of 195.6 billion dollars to put 206.5 billion dollars into the Armed Forces of Ukraine, they don't have "people of the people" to do that. And these are specific calculations, they're not from the ceiling, they're not offering 10 trillion of something, they're specific amounts that can be collected and counted on the Armed Forces of Ukraine. That's the law. Not the Kabmin, not the Ministry of Finance, not the Ministry of Finance, not the market in bathrobes, not the many other things you've set up here, the financing of the baby that destroys the Ukrainian business. And you've complained a lot about lack of your own resources to provide the army. And if you're going to finance the baby, that's going to be even less. So there is a proposal at last -- I understand that there are no votes like shame -- but there is still an offer to put to the vote. Let's see who votes, even among those in the hall. If someone has miseded mathematics, I can tell you that 206.5 is almost 11 billion more than 195.6. Let us give additional money to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, not to the incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u483	Dear colleagues, next is 460, Iron. [[B in m in s a l in]] What vote? Two revisions to the ones that were bugged. Okay. Then it's 456th and 457th. It'll be fine, won't it? I'll bet 456 on the vote, the authorship of Reasonable and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:01:04]] For-22. The decision is not taken. And 457. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's see the factions. That's wonderful! 457th. Please vote. She's been rejected by the committee, too. Dear colleagues, miss an interesting vote. 457th, please. [[17:01:36]] For 20 The factions, please. That's wonderful! [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's move on. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, 460th, Chappie, Cabal, Iron. 461 in they took off, 462 in the same way. 463, Gerasimov. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u484	Ruslan Alexiyovich, for those "servants" who remain, I remind you, less than three hundred people, why we cannot vote for this bill. We have received more than two hundred decisions or appeals from local councils that military PFCs cannot be removed from these local budgets without directing them to parts. And here, for example, is the decision of the Winniek District Council regarding the non-removal of military PDF funds from local budgets. And so I would like to go to Drabovsky Anatoly Grigorovitch, who was elected to Winnice in District 12 and to Borzov Irina Namravna, who was elected in District 14 of Žmerinka. So to understand how you're going to vote for this law, 10037 and the next 10038, your voters need to know whether you took the money from them or not? You've taken the money that goes to the military very quickly, haven't you? And so we shall remember all yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u485	Thank you. You want, you have a right to a line, you don't want to answer, do you? Okay, thanks. 463 amendments, rejected. [[17:03:33]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 464th, Mikisha. None. 465th, Iron Man, Kid, Cabal. The same 466's, the 467's, they're off. 468, the same thing. 469th, Cabal. 470, 471, 472, 473, 474. 475 – Tzabal. They got it. 476, 477, 478, 479, 480, 481, 482 – Author's Cabal. Copy that. 483, 484, 485, 486, 487, 488, 489, 490, 491, 492, 493, 494, 495, 496, 497, 498, 499, 500, 501, 502, 503, 504, 505 (this is also the Cabal). And 506, please 507, 508, 509, 510. Dmitry Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u486	Dear colleagues, there have been many claims that we need to repair our technology: and the technology that we receive as aid from our international partners, and the technology that is unfortunately under attack, is being hit by the enemy. And this bill provided 13.2 billion dollars. That's a lot of money, but thanks to the work of our team, the "Smart Politics" team, we suggested that we change this amount and actually increase it by a third, to 20.1 billion dollars. There's definitely no politics here, look! There is a technique that protects the life and health of our defenders, which needs to be repaired to make it easier for them to liberate our land in the Orikhian direction near Robotin, under Bahmut, to keep our defenses under the Kupansk. Let us help them and give them money to repair this technique, which is not enough today. One day, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Kabmin will be overwhelmed along with their secretariat. One day they'll live without another new car. And without armored cars, tanks, artillery, they can't survive and can't save our country, unlike the representatives of many so-called state institutions. Why so - called ones? Because there is nothing left besides the name! No shame, no conscience, no logic! No mind, no desire to win, only to work in your pocket, no matter what may lead to the loss of the state. So, Ruslan Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u487	You'll bet, Dmitri Alexanderovich, the first two, right? All of them? Okay. Then. [[B in m in s a l in]] The position of the committee may be, please, as amended by 506 to 510.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u488	Unfortunately, these adjustments have been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u489	Thank you. 506 Amendments to Reasonable and Colleague. Please vote. [[17:07:51]] For-24 The decision is not taken. 507 The amendment of Razumkov and his colleagues was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:08:11]] For-26 The decision is not taken. The 508th authorship of Razumkov and colleagues was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:08:32]] For-37 The decision is not taken. 509 Amendment to Reasonable and Colleagues, rejected by the Committee. Please vote. [[17:08:56]] For-33 The decision is not taken. 510 Amendment of Reasonable and Colleagues, rejected by the Committee, unfortunately. Please vote. [[17:09:17]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Next. 511th, Jell-O. Don't you insist? 512th. The railroad doesn't insist. 513th, Fedina. Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u490	Thank you, Mr. Head. Yeah, you and I know that there's not enough money to do the upgrades, the renovations of the weapons, the timely purchase, and not the 100 percent prepayment that doesn't seem to be disappearing from the Ministry of Defense. At the same time, we propose to provide security and defence with quality development, procurement, modernization and repair of weapons, military technology, equipment, and to increase the cost of the consumer general fund by 16 billion. We know directly that we have some programs that are now being towed, so I think that even in this high-quality funding of our security and defence sector is an urgent need to give back to the aggressor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u491	Thank you. Next 514. Big guy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u492	Honorary colleagues, when the President, the Prime Minister, travels around the world and gathers arms, turn to governments, the ministries of defense of various countries on all continents, in order to find some kind of weaponry, at the same time there is little, little, enough money to buy such military equipment. For some reason, there's not enough money to buy weapons and most importantly, these weapons need to be repaired periodically. And that's why the most important thing right now, I think, is to add funds. And so I'm going to suggest that 17 million add extra to make it possible for the weapons, the extra weapons, the 17 billion, the extra weapons to be repaired. It's both jobs, and it's security, and it's the lives of our military.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u493	Thank you. Are you insisting? 514 Velitchovich repairs. Declined by the committee, he's counting. Please vote. [[17:11:52]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Next 515. Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u494	We've had a problem recently with our companies in the military-industrial complex, when there was a situation that, as a result of a rather strange decision by the Cabinet, the State Audit Service simply began to "shock" all these companies and had to intervene with both the government and the Supreme Council. In fact, the situation with the supply of arms and its own production, it's serious enough, you can add, and you have to add, there's no ceiling there, because in the next few years, the GDP will be our top priority for development. But once again, I want to emphasize that for the time being we're going to be developing a military industrial complex, we have questions about the current war, and these questions are closing our Western partners. So we need to listen to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u495	I bet 515 Arievo's amendment. Please vote. [[17:13:21]] For-24 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 516 revisions. Goncharenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u496	Goncharenko. Dear friends, we have to add funds to our military. It seems to be such an obvious thing. And that includes this and a bunch of other lines. Instead, we're told anything. As far as this endless series, the series, the drums, and everything else that money is for. On the scholarship, President Alexander Seminovich's father's permanent scholarship to Green Money is in place. I say we have representatives of the government, I address the Supreme Council, it's not a secret, please tell us, what is the permanent scholarship, the sum, Alexander Semenovich Zelenski, how much do we have to pay every month to help the Greens? I just want to know. It's at a time when we don't pay very well.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u497	Please, can we do this after you've fixed it?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u498	Yeah, that's right. Correction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and where it should direct the funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u499	Dear colleagues, the 516 revision of the potterenko. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:14:54]] For-22. The decision is not taken. 517th, Gerasimov. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, 517 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u500	Please pass the word to Goncharenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u501	Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u502	Dear friends, we have to give everything to the military. Well, that seems obvious to every person. Especially when the world is already in place. Well, there are problems, because we've already worked so hard, we've worked so well with our diplomacy without striped baths, we've worked so well with everyone that Poland and I have a problem in the United States. A problem and a serious problem. And the moment that we have every penny in our account, every penny, we find the opportunity to finance anything but the main thing, except our army. By the way, my colleagues told me the size of Alexander Semenovich Zelensky's permanent monthly scholarship: 7,000,443 bracelets per month. I'll leave it with no comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u503	517 Gerasimov repairs. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[17:16:32]] For 20 The decision is not taken. 518th, Iron. Don't insist. 519. Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u504	Thank you, Mr. Head. We ask that the financing of the general fund be increased by 40 million to build housing for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We believe that this article is always underfunded in the amount needed. Moreover, given that we have a significant increase in the number of military personnel today, we feel it is necessary to meet these needs. And let's say we respond adequately as a state, giving all the guarantees, including social security, and housing to our defenders and our defenders. Thank you and please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u505	519 Amendments to the authorship of Fedina and Friz. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[17:17:45]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 520 of Bondar and Veliczovich's authorship. Big guy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u506	Dear colleagues, I agree with my colleague Irina Fryz's view that all the funds should go either to the Armed Forces or to provide social guarantees to military personnel and their families. So supporting housing for military personnel is now an extremely important social issue for society. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u507	520 amendments by Bondar and Veliczovich were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:18:42]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 521. Please, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u508	We are now, in principle, showing the model of the Parliament of a European country, where there is silence in the hall, there is an effort to listen to each other, there is no going around, there is no yelling, there is no talking on the phone, and there are no asking questions in the corners. Well, basically, this is what the Parliament of a European country should look like. I really hope that one day we'll have this and the whole room will ensure that the culture of parliamentaryism grows. As for a specific change to the budget, I realize that there are just numbers that you shouldn't even talk about. But the very question that we need to redistribute money into military housing is important. Well, most importantly, I'm going to repeat it in every single speech: we need to move on to reform, not reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u509	521 The amendment by Ariev and his colleagues was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:20:12]] For-21 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 522. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u510	Alexei Hotcharenko. The amendment says that let's add the cost of housing and housing for military personnel. It's a very painful question, just amazing. The numbers obtained by the tenants are about 1 thousand and 800 dollars, for example, depending on the locality. I don't know what you can rent on this, I don't know what you can rent on this. These numbers can be given by those who own Forte dei-Marmi, or where the villa of the Greens family needs a permanent scholarship, we understand, because without it you can't live, forte dei-marmi, it can be. And since they're in charge of this money, there's not a single penny of it at all on the top of the apartment, nothing at all. The turn of the military is terrible, and it's scary to say these numbers. Let's just give it something so it moves a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u511	522 revision of the potterenko, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:21:40]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 523. Gerasimov, please. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u512	Dear friends, we're talking about the same thing, we're still talking about this right here, that we need to add housing to military personnel. You have no idea how painful this question is. I'm almost every day of the evening, I don't know who's doing the evening who's where I am, I'm on a live air and I'm communicating there with people. Most people are military personnel and their families who call and call because no one hears them, no one deals with their problems. Tens of thousands of people a day. And one of the most painful questions. There I saw colleagues laughing, and a small number of "ministers of the people" who are here. It's funny, really talking to voters -- it's funny, you have to talk to others, you have to talk to people, you have to talk to them, you can get voters. We can see how some of the "ministers of the people" understand that. I don't know what you're laughing at, over yourself, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u513	523 revisions, authorships Gerasim, Pottery, Pauline. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[17:23:16]] For-16 The decision is not taken. 524th. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u514	Thank you. Here, by the way, new information has come that Alexander Semenovich's scholarship to Zelensky, the Green Elder, will last forever be 8 000 083 bracelets. This better explain the importance of this question, because it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u515	Alexyyyovich, I'm sorry, is there any way we can get closer to the subject?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u516	After all, 200 euros.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u517	Whatever it is, it's all less than 700,000 that pass from Gazprom through relatives. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u518	Thank you. Let's talk about this, with great pleasure. I point out that I don't get any scholarships for life, I don't give my relatives, I don't hang anyone in the state account, like some of the "Serial of the People" colleagues who have formed their children as helpers, they've switched their wife into one, and in the other, they're going to figure out who they are. That's what we've all seen. And at the state expense of 8,000 dollars to hang? It's called the Age of Grief has come.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u519	524 revisions. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[17:24:44]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. 525 revisions. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u520	Thank you very much. I want to pay attention, colleagues, to the extent that it doesn't matter. We've been here for hours, we're talking about military personnel, we're talking about moms who get 860 bucks a month for a kid, well, we're talking about something here, and in principle, everything was irrelevant. Until one moment, it was called Greensky. And then, look, the speaker's breaking in already, well, we need to close our wide backs, protect, well, how about the family, this family can't protect itself. Other deputies, former prosecutors are already standing behind, say that it is a deserved man, who deserves it. We have the whole country of people who deserve it. I don't have a question for Alexander Seminovich Zelensky, I have a question for Vladimir Alexander Zelensky. If he did not hand his father over, he would have to throw away the official who set him up and hand him over to his father today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u521	525 repairs to Gerasim, Pavlovka, Pottery. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[17:26:15]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Next, 526. Big guy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u522	Dear colleagues, let's still allocate the resources to the Armed Forces for the disposal of ammunition, as well as every penny that goes to strengthen the security of the armory, it will benefit the Armed Forces and the security of the environment. So the request will be supported by this amendment, and every penny that is foreseen by this regulation will be allocated to the Armed Forces, to the security of the warehouses where our weapons and ammunition are stored.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u523	Dear colleagues, Amendment 526. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[17:27:21]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 527. Ariev, please. Gerasimov, please, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u524	Dear colleagues, I am grateful that we have a minister of finance present. Look, I'm reading the analysis from this bill, and it's very interesting that it's 252 million dollars in the Minfin, and it's almost enough to close the 272 that they're asking for. The same story that's interesting, yes, we have several other authorities or law enforcement agencies. For example, the Attorney General's Office has not used about 850 million dollars of wages, and Mindowkill is 89 million dollars. Minust is 70 million. To be honest, this is a total of over two billion dollars that have not been spent. And I have a question right now to the Minister of Finance, I'd really appreciate it if he said, well, they're asking for extra money, and they're not spending. And in Minfin itself and, excuse me, in other authorities or law enforcement agencies. What's the point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u525	Thank you. 527 people's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u526	Can I have a word with you, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u527	Dear colleagues, we agreed. [[B in m in s a l in]] The entire minister sits in order that he should be present under the law. Rocksolana Andriyevna, can you answer for 527 rights? It's rejected, so say it, please. 527 amendment rejected. I'll take her into account. Please vote. [[17:29:11]] For-16 The decision is not taken. 528th Amendment. Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u528	Yes, thank you. Well, in fact, I'm so impressed that it's only those adjustments that were made there, so to speak, solely by the representatives of the majority, right? I mean, I see that all those who remain, who are unaccounted for, are practically representatives of opposition factions, in this case "European Solidarity", are representatives of the "Summack Group" and accordingly other majors, Mrs. Lighty, welcome you, who are also interested in the quality approval of the document. I'm asking you to put this right to a vote, to account, because I think that this disproportionate attitude towards budget changes actually plays a role, not in the security and defence sectors, but in those who have developed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u529	Roxolano Andriyovno, from the committee, please, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u530	This statement does not correspond to reality. This bill includes 10 amendments, of which 90 July Volodymyrovna Timoshenko of "The Father of the Father", amendment 529 Vladimir Volodymyrovich Tzabal of "The Voice", amendment 616 by Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak - is also included. So three out of ten amendments to the opposition. And by the way, some of the amendments the Gethmans made, they all support the hall because the Gethmans were making an adjustment to the cost reduction for the Beb. And Motovlover, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u531	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 528th amendment of the authorship of Fedina and the Friz Committee has been rejected. Please vote. [[17:31:17]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Out of procedure, please, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u532	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Look, we've made our decision, and the Presidium has decided to follow the table, according to the table. We've already made that decision. So, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiyovich, the next amendment is 529th. Please place it on confirmation now. Thank you. We're going around the table, let me remind you of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u533	I also remind you that on the Conciliation Board we also agreed that we would go, as always, the amendments first that were rejected, then which are counted. The next 530th amendment. Please, Friz.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u534	Once again, please. Brainy, do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u535	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. What about the decision taken by the Conciliation Council? Was there a vote? If so, tell us which factions supported such a position. If not, since it has been decided to follow the chart, the offer of Gerasimov is well received. Put her to the vote. If we want to change the procedure for this bill now, we have to vote in the room. You are sure that there are voices, and as Head of the Supreme Council, you are ensuring the activities of the Supreme Council and the plenary. So if you want to change this procedure, you really have the right to put a motion to vote to change the order of the question. Even within the scope of the question. This is permitted by the Rules. If not, then we're going around the table -- just like the decision was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u536	This procedure was laid down just before we came to terms with the matter. And if you need the appropriate documents of the Conciliation Board, you can get them as a national deputy upon request. Please. Let's move on, dear fellows. Since the procedure? Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u537	Thank you, Your Honor. As a member of the Conciliation Council, I would like to highlight the following. Each Conciliation Board certainly ends by voting not only for the agenda but also for the plenary. So today, during the Conciliation Council, we really did talk about a list of the drafts that were put forward for today's plenary session. There was no vote. And I hope all the young and new faces here, the sclerosis of no one, so I would like us to give accurate information to our colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u538	Irina Volodymyrno.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u539	So Arthur Gerasimov, as a member of the Conciliation Council, without sclerosis, is absolutely right about the fact that we agreed to follow the table. And that's why we need to make an amendment for confirmation now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u540	Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u541	That's the last of it. I'm sorry, you don't interrupt men in this room, just that kind of honor, in your paws, gets women out of opposition. Hold on. And what I'm saying is that there wouldn't be this consideration right now if the boards of consent were live, just like it was 32 years old.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u542	530 amendments, Fedina, Friz, please. It's rejected. Friz.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u543	Thank you, Mr. Head. Well, actually, Mrs. Roxolano, I have to say that no correction from "European Solidarity" was taken into account in the consideration of this bill for the second reading. I'm going to point out that the faction of "European Solidarity" will carefully write about the rights that we've been proposing, where we've been showing revenue to the budget to take and where we've had to direct them, so that voters can see where we've been proposing this money. As far as 530 is concerned, it offers 2 billion 625 thousand dollars to direct to the State Special Transportation Service, which is now in the Ministry of Defence, well, more loyally since 2017, but is now in the Ministry of Defence, and it really needs to be funded, because not only are they involved in so-called terrorist measures, but they are building infrastructure and providing the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military units with all the necessary equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u544	530 amendments, by Fedina and Friz. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[17:36:01]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. The next is 531 amendments, Bondar and Veličkovic. Big guy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u545	Dear colleagues, the State Special Transportation Service, which is now part of the Ministry of Defense, really needs additional funding. They perform special functions that other public services associated with transportation are unable to perform. So we're asking you to support this proposal. And I would also like to support my colleague, Irina Fries, in that no correction from the European Solidarity faction has been taken into account. In view of what we have suggested and constructively approached, we are in favour of that. For Ukraine to win, and the money it is will be used to the fullest extent possible. So unfortunately, our rights were not included in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u546	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u547	Dear colleagues, we don't take political preferences into account. We're taking into account the amendments that they're making. When we talk about increased expenditures on the Ukrainian Armed Forces or other defense forces, we need to talk about what income will cover these expenses. You can't go from humanitarian to social spending to public service spending to defense. Because all these expenses are financed by international partners who do not finance defence. If we're at least one cent, one Eurocent is going from international aid to defence, it's going to stop. I don't think anyone wants Ukraine to see that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u548	531 revisions of Bondar's authorship, Veličkovich. The committee's dismissed. You heard the arguments. Please vote. [[17:38:17]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 532. Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u549	Most of our problems and misunderstandings are because we do not follow the full parliamentary procedure for passing the bill. In this case, the committee meeting was this morning. No amendment was invited to a committee meeting to be presented to the committee. At least I did not receive such an invitation as the author of the amendments. In this case, all problems arise. Therefore, if we follow the foundations of parliamentaryism, when we are familiar with the results of our amendments, just before the committee has considered them, literally before consideration, there will always be such moments. But if we want to move on to European practice, we're going to have to change that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u550	Roxanne Andriyovn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u551	That's not true. I want to inform everyone who's watching us and everyone who's in the room. Bill 10037 was discussed at the committee meeting today, and we are now considering a bill 10038 in the hall. All the authors of the amendments before the committee today and before the committee of 10038 were informed. It's true, please open the SEDO, at 2:00 a.m. on Sunday you were sent a report that there would be a committee of 10038. There was a link that you could join the committee for.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u552	Dear colleagues, 532nd. Please, let's not interrupt! Give me a chance. You're going to tell a story that doesn't have to be interrupted, and it's just a constant stream of information. Dear colleagues, 532 revisions. She is Ariev’s authorship; she is rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:40:44]] For-16 The decision is not taken. 533rd, Hotcharyenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u553	533rd, a very important amendment. This is about providing activities, adding money to the State Special Transportation Service. It's an extremely important department, it's an extremely important force structure that performs very serious tasks in our country. Regrettably, members of the military are often offended because they are not known, and they do not sound that way. These are former so-called railway armies, what was once called. But they play a fantastically important role. And they need to help and add funds, for many of them today do not receive even combat payments, nothing, even though they risk their lives each day. And just like we're talking about the Railroad and the Railroad, I want to remind you once again that another such de facto soldiers are the workers of the Crucifixion. And these people, too, are being paid in full today. Pathetic — 4, 5. What is the salary of 8.9,000 bracelets for the driver?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u554	533 revision of the authorship of Potterenka, the committee rejected. Please vote. [[17:42:13]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 534. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u555	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I continue to remind myself why this bill cannot be voted on. You know, a lot of reporters analyzed it. I'm going to read a quote from a very respectable publication: "There are a lot of issues that arise from the analysis of the existing and the desired expenditure, both for the specific states and for the government as a whole, about the efficiency and control of this efficiency." I mean, honestly, isn't money actually used or stolen effectively, there's two options. And besides, I'd like to pay attention, one of the main sources is the PDF, which will be taken from local budgets. And here, you know, the Berdichov City Council has decided not to allow the removal of these funds. And I'd like the people in Berditch to take a closer look -- and how about this law and the next one will be the Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich, who was just elected in the 63 district of the town of Berdich? Will he take the money to the local community or not? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u556	The amendment of Gerasimov and his colleagues was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:43:42]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Next. 535, 536, 537, 538, 539. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u557	Ruslan Alexiyovich, let's make it to the 538th, four revisions. So I'm looking, the potential is increasing in the hall. Dear colleagues, first of all, the Mayor of Berdichiva won't hear you, because if I'm not mistaken, he's not in the hall. It's important to me because I'm alone in this town, and unfortunately I don't think he's gone to explain to his voters what he's doing in the hall or, more faithfully, that he's not doing in the hall. But when you go back to the bill and your rights that have been taken into account, look, Rocksolan Andriyevn, where you're good, we praise you, that's what you say, and where you say not quite right, let's say so. When we're filing an 11 billion-dollar increase for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, I think it's an absolutely adequate amendment that didn't go anywhere, you could have been quietly redistributed and you talked about it on the committee, and you told Deputy Minister Ulutin that, yes, there's the right thing, but there's no. It's not a question of Minfin, really, it's a question for you who didn't support this amendment and don't allocate funds for our Armed Forces, extra funds that can buy weapons that can provide our protectors with salaries and supplements, not with external borrowings. And secondly, we can redistribute these costs into social costs, and I've already mentioned this to you today, payments for the dead, for example. Can I? Not to contradict our international agreements? Pensions for the loss of a breadwinner and many other things, which on the one hand are not direct expenses on the security and defence sectors. On the other hand, it is a matter of ensuring the interests of our defenders and their families. So let's tell the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u558	539th. Brainy, please. You wanted it separately, is that how I figured it out or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u559	No, I'll be four brothers. 539th. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u560	Then you break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u561	Then one minute. Thank you. Rocksolana Andriyovn, the head of the Supreme Council, probably didn't see you, you wanted to answer my question, just to him, really, awkwardly, he doesn't see your position. I'd like to hear the answers to those questions that I asked you, hopefully they'll be, as always, professional.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u562	I'm sorry, it's only been five hours before this little screen that shows when the microphone is turned on. I want to say, and this is actually a general rule for all MPs who make amendments to the state budget that relate to defence needs. It will be easier for us on the budget committee to take these amendments into account, and in general it will be possible if the source is directly allocated. So what new tax do you want to make, or what tax do you think you're going to be overrun by. In this case, 11 billion so that it can be directed towards the need for defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u563	Thank you. 540 repairs. Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u564	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, we return to the need to finance the areas of activity of our country that need the greatest attention from power and the state. We propose 540 rights to increase funding under budget programme 2201010 in order to be able to actually rely on the education services of people who remain in the country in the future, and continue to do their job by teaching children, students and so on. So please put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u565	540 amendments, by Fedina, Friz. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[17:48:33]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Let's move on. 541st, Bondar, Velitchovich. Big guy, please. Bigwich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u566	Rocksolana Andriyevne, when we applied complexly, we did not just point out the articles where they were to be. Add costs to articles on military or educational expenses or other programs, but also on what can be reduced. And one of my first lefts with my colleague Michael Bondar was just a reduction of 208 million expenses to the Cabinet of Ministers, and we offered to add funds to the military, including now to education. So I'm going to ask you to consider your position, if you're in high school, we're not going to support your high school, then we're going to think about where we're going to take our qualified personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u567	541 revisions of the authorship of Velikichovich and Bondar. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[17:49:50]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 542. Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u568	Madam committee head, you yourself are well aware that the introduction of new taxes cannot be amended, and new bills are needed. So when suggestions are made about who to add something to, there were suggestions that should be taken away. And there were suggestions to take it into the Cabinet of Ministers at this time, at those costs that they put in the military budget to mask the increase in salaries for officials. That's what we offered. So at this point, even for education and money, but for education and money, it's important now. Well, in principle, 8,000 dollars of Green Senior's scholarship confirms that no amount is too much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u569	Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u570	Dear colleagues, we have such a professional and constructive discussion today, allow me to add a new original opinion to this discussion. You and I can collect expenses from all ministries. We can free all the employees of the ministries that are in Ukraine. I think there's a social demand for that. The only problem is that all of this money we can't spend on the U.S.S.S.A. anyhow we don't want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u571	Dear colleagues, 542 revisions of Ariev The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[17:51:52]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 543, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u572	Alexei Hotcharenko. It's about passing the funds on to general government and management in the field of education and science, adding a little bit of money there. Because what we have today is a catastrophe -- the level of wages that a teacher has, the level of wages that a kindergarten teacher has. Of course, it's hard for us to understand that war, but you can't really understand why there's money on the 95-block series and with them and around them. To film for who, why? Well, I don't understand and I don't understand. Why are there money for drums? Why are there money on permanent scholarships, such as President Alexander Zelenski's father? That's not clear. At the same time, there is no money for a teacher, for a teacher, and for everyone else. So let's do the right priorities and at least add something to the educational community.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u573	Dear colleagues, the 543 revision of the potcherenko is rejected. Please vote. [[17:53:23]] For-12. The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Gerasimov, 544. Who? A potter's boy? Please, Hotcharenko, 544.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u574	Alexei Hotcharenko. Dear colleagues, once again, I ask you to return to your faces. Faces, friends, face, please. Not what some "ministers of the people" are doing, not what they're sitting on, I don't know, face, please, to education, to education, it's very important. Even now, in our current circumstances, once again, I understand that it is our military that is the most important thing to us, and we're lifting it up here as well. At least some steps to demonstrate that the state has not forgotten about these people, that it just remembers that they exist, that it understands that they are doing something important. We say, we have people, we have people, we have people, and we have people to come back here with our children. What bothers any father, mother, is where will the child learn?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u575	The 544 amendments by Gerasimov, Pottery and Pauline were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:55:06]] For -14 The decision is not taken. 545 repairs. Friz.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u576	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mrs. Roxolano, I like the thesis that you said in terms of changing the discourse that we can't, even if we raise all the money, refer it to the U.S.S.S. I'll tell you why I like it, because then you and I have to make a priority, where we're going to go, and it's going to depend on the future of our state. That's exactly what 545 is about. We propose to increase the financing of human resources by higher education institutions and to ensure the operation of their bases of practice. You know directly, because you have a mother teacher, but how important is preparation and a base for the preparation of the personnel that will then restore and restore our state. So we suggest 609 million to refer to this particular article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u577	Dear colleagues, 545 revisions by Fedina and Friz were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[17:56:31]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Next 546. Please, Big Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u578	Dear colleagues, you know, as a person with more than 20 years of academic and pedagogical training, I think if we don't support education and the basis for our students' practice, our children, those who graduate school, will go abroad. And the military, who are now on the front, who are now protecting the country, are standing there so that those children in the back can learn properly. In order for them to learn properly, they need to have a normal basis for adequate training. So to support this amendment, this amendment is a contribution to our future and a contribution to our future and a contribution to our young people who then become experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u579	546 repairs, Bondara, Veličkovich. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[17:57:42]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Next 547. Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u580	We all know well that more than half of our budget is now under our budget, half of our expenses are covered by our Western partners' income. And in recent times, we have seen problems with the allocation of these funds, particularly in the United States House of Representatives, where a temporary budget was voted without the assistance of Ukraine. Your Honor, the honourable chairman of the committee, it's not funny here, I'm saying important things. In such cases, we need to unite, unite, repeat, in order to reform and prove to the world that Ukraine is worthy of the help it has received. Without this help, we will soon have nothing to share in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u581	Before we set up, I don't know where you saw laughter in the lobby, we haven't laughed at anything in a long time. But your colleague came by and there was just an interview with the reporter, so let's still be objective if we're talking about these things. Come on, 547. [[B in m in s a l in]] Democracy should not turn into anarchy. 547 Arrive’s Amendment The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[17:59:34]] For-12. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 548. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u582	It's very important, we're talking again about supporting our education, and this should certainly be the subject in the Supreme Council's session hall. And I urge my colleagues to listen, let's take some steps to meet the education staff, the doctors, because we have a separate story, it's an emergency medical care, and it's an extremely difficult situation with pay levels. These are the people who leave when Russian missiles arrive, these are the people who are now in Kupyansk helping those who have been affected by another terrorist attack from the aggressor country, and they're always at the front end, and they don't have any payments in fact, no payments. There's some police payout, there's some categories, there's some military fighting, and there's nothing. It can't be that way, let's be respectful.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u583	548 repairs to the potter. The committee's dismissed. Please. What happened? Now, let's vote. Please, 548 repairs to the potterenko. Please vote. [[18:01:11]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Please, Gerasimov, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u584	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. We just got word that there's a meeting of the Energy Committee right now. Excuse me, what's this story? Did you give such an assignment? The council gave such an assignment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u585	No, there's no meeting, just friendly conversation between committee members without. It's not a protocol, it's not a decision to make. We've already found out, Arthur Volodymyrovich. A little earlier for you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u586	And we now have committees called friendly communication?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u587	Can't MPs get together, can't they just have coffee?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u588	On-line at the request of a committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u589	Well, what difference does it make where they're going? If there's no protocol and no decisions, it's not a committee meeting. You don't know me any worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u590	Listen, maybe we're having a friendly conversation here, isn't that a meeting?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u591	No, there's a plenary session that's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u592	Well, so I'm going to be wondering if there's going to be a protocol and there's going to be committee decisions on this number? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u593	No, it's not. No, it won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u594	Look, I have a list of all the committees, not one meeting. So, dear colleagues, let's not manipulate. I have information that's been clarified, information that's there. About what, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Is that procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u595	I'm out of procedure. On the committee, I wanted to know. What about the committee? They simply decided to gather themselves, did the committee head address the committee members?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u596	Dmitri Alexanderovich, look, we don't have this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u597	You're the head of the Supreme Council, you can't help yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u598	I don't know how a specific committee is being convened. To that end, there is a committee head who is responsible for the committee’s activities. We're moving on. 549th, please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u599	Alexei Hotcharenko. I want to turn to those who see us now, not now, but who will see us someday. Because the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not broadcast live for completely unknown reasons. Well, there's no reason why the Supreme Council of Ukraine doesn't have journalists, why the Supreme Council of Ukraine doesn't have guests so that as it was before, everyone can see what's going on in Parliament. Now it's all classified, it's kind of hidden because we're taking care of security. We have shelters like the whole country lives: there's air anxiety -- they go to shelters. What prevents this from doing the same in the Supreme Council? No, it's not. The Supreme Council is not demonstrating. And now not many people who see it at night, because they only show it at night, and I want to say, why doesn't it show that people don't see it when 30 national deputies stay in the session room, and others at friendly parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u600	The 549th amendment of Gerasimov's author, Pauline, was rejected by the Committee. Please vote. [[6:04:17]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Arthur Volodymyrovich, look, we've heard your information. You got the answer. Where is your man now, please set up your man. Please proceed with the procedure. Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u601	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Our committee member, Mikhailo Leontijovich Bondar, said that they had been officially invited to an official meeting of the committee at 4:30 p.m. After that, they're now, right in the eye, and offline, in Leipzig. In addition, they have moved on to the second issue. If the committees don't give you a chance to sit down and, as you say, be friendly, you know, at least you should be uncomfortable with the committees holding their meetings without taking into account the opinion of the Head of the Supreme Council and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please stop this committee meeting, which is illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u602	Dear colleagues, if there is a committee meeting, I ask him to stop. Well, I'm pretty sure the committee meeting isn't going well. If he doesn't go, then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, Arthur Volodymyrovich! [[B in m in s a l in]] Next, the 550th amendment. Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u603	Thank you, Mr. Head. The next amendment is 550 for us, as a state, to still form mechanisms of government that will create foundation and motivate young people to remain in our state. You know perfectly well that right now, all over the world, there's what's called "intellectual hunting" on the brain. For example, Ukrainian citizens will be paid up to 125,000 dollars to move to Greece as well as for the birth of a child. That's why we're right to offer 8 billion scholarships to students, postgraduate students, PhDs in higher and higher education so that our young intellectual people have the motivation to stay in our state. Thank you. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u604	Thank you. 550 amendment by Friz. Please vote. She's been rejected by the committee. [[18:07:07]] For-12. The decision is not taken. 551 repairs. Big guy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u605	Dear Mr. Head, if our future, and these are students, postgraduates, Ph.D.s, will not receive a proper scholarship, we will certainly not see them in Ukraine. And so now we see brain drains abroad. We see them hunting our young people who are qualified, trying to win them over to different countries. And so it's very important for the state to support them with scholarships and give them a future. So once again, I'm going to ask my colleagues to support, just like European Solidarity does, to support our students, our graduate students and our PhD students.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u606	551 The amendment by Bondar and Veličkovic was rejected by the committee, please vote. [[18:08:17]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Out of procedure, Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u607	Ruslan Alexiyovich, on the false words in the walls of the Supreme Council. Order of the day meeting of the Committee on Energy and Housing Services in Video Conference Mode, October 5, 2023, beginning at 4:30 p.m. Link: Committee meetings continue now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u608	Come on in.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u609	Look, they'll go to those who've made that decision. But this will be a different story. A committee meeting can take place?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u610	He can't. Do you want me to repeat the 10th time, dear colleagues? He can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u611	And it's happening. How?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u612	See, if it happens, responsible ones will be held accountable. If it does not happen, those who have spread false information should be corrected. It's as logical as day, my friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u613	And when was Zoom created, Dmitri Alexanderovich? When was this Zoom created? When did this request come about? I guess before it became clear that there would be an endless session here today, right? Herus set up a committee that's criminal? Yesterday morning or a week ago. He didn't announce it today, Dmitri Alexanderovich. What's the use of manipulating things like that? [[B in m in s a l in]] There is no committee meeting. All right, dot. Bring it back, then we'll talk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u614	Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich, tell me, when was the shipment sent?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u615	Alexander Sergiyovich, what you've done is to continue the sessions of the Supreme Council in violation of the terms agreed upon, is your right. Wait! The question is, the committee meeting is now ongoing, there are our colleagues present. Then, if necessary, the law enforcement authorities will be able to confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u616	Okay. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u617	Please contact the law enforcement authorities, Dmitri Alexanderovich. We don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u618	Everyone to law enforcement. In a democratic state, everything is decided by the court, we have to get used to it. Dear colleagues, 552 revisions. Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u619	I think scholarships deserve others too. Well, you know what I mean. So the proposal is, at least, to consider increasing the scholarship fund by 8 million dollars. But, of course, all of this will not be accepted. That's why I'm coming back to one. Can we put a colleague down because I can't see the head of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u620	We have such decisions that only a court can make.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u621	So I'd like to remind you again, we're going to have a big problem right now, we're going to have a mega-problem with our budget filling and covering our expenses. So without reforms, without the continued work of the Supreme Council to implement these reforms, to translate into our Western partners, we will have huge problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u622	552 Arrive’s Amendment The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[18:12:01]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 553. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u623	Dear colleagues, it is obvious that we should consider and make decisions in support of our education, to support our health care, to support our emergency medical care. Rescuers are a particularly painful subject, rescue workers received 30,000 dollars a month's pay when they put in this supplement. And then President Zelensky said that this supplement would be until the war was over. The war did not end, the payments ended, these people risked their lives every day, saving us during the shootings, the fires that resulted from them. And instead we find money for a variety of fools, instead we find just time and space for anything, except to help people.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u624	553 repairs to the potter. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[18:13:32]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 554th. Gerasimov or Goncharenko? Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u625	Thank you. And once again, I'm paying attention to the viewers, and every minute, we're getting smaller and smaller. I don't know how many of us are now. I wonder how many of us are going to be there a little later when we keep working. Why is it that the issue of change to the state budget for this year, perhaps one of the key issues that just might be of no interest to our colleagues at all? Where they are and what they're busy, we don't know. We're seeing a video of you and someone fighting somewhere, we're seeing a video of someone throwing a bribe behind the fence of the house. We're seeing such terrible videos. Usually it's all "ministers of the people," they're very active, until it comes to sitting in the Supreme Council Hall and working. Because for other things, their activity is enough for everything, but it's just their constant activity, in the hall -- no, they don't want to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u626	Dear colleagues, this was the 554th amendment, the authorship of Gerasimov, Potter and colleagues. People's deputies, please vote. [[18:15:10]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Next 555, 556, 557, 558, 559. Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u627	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as far as the law is concerned, we return to them. You, Roxolano Andriyovno, have pointed out that. If you don't mind, take a look at me. You said that if you wanted to show more spending on the Defense Department sector, you'd need more taxes. First of all, you're not responsible for taxes, luckily or unfortunately, it's not your committee, and you don't have to introduce extras. I'm looking at that you're not just going to work for the head of the government and you're going to claim for the head of the Supreme Council. But back to (and don't be afraid, he can't hear), but then, we've clearly offered you where to get additional resources for the security and defence sectors. It was clearly mentioned there, and we offered to take you to the U.S.A. Could you have done it in the frame of the flips? You could, right, sneeze and support my words. Could we have taken this from the External Intelligence Service? Mowgli. You could have, and you know it. We could have taken that. So we can finance the External Intelligence Service at the expense of the outside? Then could you? Mowgli. What do you mean? Yes! Next. Could we have financed it at the expense of the State Department? Why? Then explain to me why I'm running out of time. I'd love to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u628	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u629	See, when it comes to simply translating money from one basket to another, of course we could. But the State Special Liaison Service is responsible for the production and purchase of drones. Now, for obvious reasons, we can't tell you how many drones they bought and how many they made, but I want to tell you that this number is measured by tens of thousands. We can of course cancel this program and not produce drones in Ukraine, but I want to remind you that the Russian Federation is producing its drones.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u630	Please, 560, 561, 562, 563, 564, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u631	Roxolano Andriyovno, you are unfortunately not in the material at all. Frankly, in this regard you have answered very professionally, as many colleagues have said, it is true, it must be acknowledged, and so have colleagues. Sadly, though, there is not. As they say, you didn't fall because you said why you didn't want to translate them, and I'm telling you you could have. The same could be done because it is totally illogical for the State Department to buy drones. I realize it's very convenient for Fedorov, and I realize it's very convenient for Kabminu, but it's done by the Mincifera, and it's very plentiful for the Vice Prime Minister. Really? Though they do much good, they too must be recognized. But what is the point of the State Department? Let's get us to the Council, let your committee buy drones, let's at least check, at least check, and they can't. Now you're trying to pull something that's not strained. You're trying to explain that it's hard for you to do this yourself because you're smart and you realize that it doesn't work that way, but you have to explain it because there's a team from the President's Office that doesn't fund plus an extra 11 billion dollars of our Armed Forces with you. And unfortunately, you're doing it. I don't know why this is happening, honestly. Because if there is no Armed Forces, there will be no President's Office, no government, no you, no me, no state with you. And I really hope that at least those who have stayed in this room understand that very well. So let's use the funds where we need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u632	Thank you. Next 56. Please, the procedure is Gerasimov. The answer to the committee's head, please. It's sublime. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u633	Thank you. I really agree with you completely, but I also want to say that if in our military, in our armed forces, in the National Guard there will be no means to fight, including drones, we won't be here with you either.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u634	Please, Gerasimov, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u635	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. You know, I was just in Lipski, 3. So that's where the Energy Committee meeting is going. It has experts present, it has representatives of executive authorities present, it discusses the issue of the day’s order and goes on record (pay attention!), and they are only called a friendly meeting. But listen, we don't need to be fooled, honestly, I've never seen anything like this before. And the MPs, excuse me, are not in Parliament because of the Committee's illegal meetings and they violate the Rules for this. That's why I'm talking to the speaker and the chairman right now at the session to take measures on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u636	Thank you. Mikisha, 565th, please. You'll bet?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u637	I'll discuss it, and I won't. Rocksolana Andriyevna, look, there's a question. This right here is 565th, about where 552 million are spent on public education. I'd like to know where he's going. And I'd like to remind you that this year. And in general, Bill 10038, he's saying that we're distributing leftovers, including the local budgets of the general fund and the special fund. And I'd like to remind you that it's the local budgets and all the local communities in general that try to save lives, including education, in order to make use of those funds in the future, primarily educational, so that the overall public education network will work normally in the future. And they're accumulating it right on the leftovers and trying to use it. This year, 9 billion were saved, which Minfin finally took away. Where's that money coming from? We don't know. That's why I'd like to.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u638	Yes, the answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u639	We seem to have talked about this before, but it's easy for me to say it again. 552.8 million bracelets for education are aimed at the publication and acquisition of school textbooks for 5-6 classes for those items that have not yet been printed in the New Ukrainian School.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u640	I'm betting on the vote number 565 of the Mikishi People's Deputies. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. That's what I'm talking about. [[18:23:40]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next 566. Fedina, Friz. Please, who? Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u641	Yes. Thank you. Mrs. Roxolano, I hope you understand this because you are the daughter of a teacher, a teacher, because you understand how important it is to have quality funding for the education sector. This is a bill to direct 700 million dollars to the budget program. You mentioned in your previous reply about the need to fine-tune the printing of textbooks. I'll tell you a little bit more, the amount you call it is a little understatement, because today I have a kid who's undergraduate in the fifth grade, they're almost everywhere in Ukraine not getting a complete set of books, textbooks. So I think it's this particular article of expenditure that needs to be increased. Please be supportive. Thank you. Put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u642	National MP Fries proposes to put to the vote the number 566 of his authorship and of the Fedina. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. That's what I'm talking about. [[18:25:12]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 567, Veličkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u643	Dear colleagues, I would like you to support the revision to the budget programme of 2201260 "State measures in the field of education" and to increase the issue of printing manuals on the amount that is needed now, where each copy is important. Because kids who are now in school, they're unfortunately now often in situations where they're forced to print on the Internet those materials, but they're sitting with little kids and seeing how this process is, so it's very sad. So I'd like you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u644	I'm betting on the vote number 567, it's rejected by the committee, by the national deputies Bondar and Veliczovich. Please vote. That's what I'm talking about. [[18:26:28]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. 568 revisions, Ariev, Herasimov Who is Arthur Volodymyrovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u645	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. For those representatives of the "Serial of the People" faction that neither this law nor the other can be voted on, you see, even the Minister of Finance has already realized that he cannot be voted on and gone without supporting this disgrace, I report. According to analysts and according to the Mineconomy of Municipalities and local self - government authorities, even though they are under control and are sometimes banned by law enforcement officials, they have already listed the state of affairs as September 1, this year, and they have received military VAT for local budgets, so 45 percent of this VAT has already been converted into military units, security and defence. And by the way, according to Mineconomy, the authorities of local self-government only bought drones and only through ProZorro for more than 1 billion dollars. It's up to you whether you need to take the PDF into local budgets or not. Thank you. And please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u646	I bet the vote number 568 of Ariev’s national deputies, Gerasimov, Chigoza, was rejected by the committee. Please vote for the vote. [[18:28:00]] For-12. The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Number 569, Goncharenko. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u647	Yes, it's a continuation of the proposals to make this budget real and change it because it's necessary for the state. You know, I want to admit that there's a lot of important things, we're transferring money to the army, we're transferring money to Nazwardia, it's important. But there's a lot of unnecessary things, endless babys, schmucks, all kinds of stuff, officials, what we're going to win and how. As for the quality of our government's work, it's a separate question. I see so much that we are alone, we have been abandoned by all government officials. And I want to say that our government is offering us money. A little example. On June 30, the law that we have voted here with you has entered into force, with respect to the payment to the experts, the students, the limitedly fit, outlawed state, so far they haven't received a penny in the U.S.S.A. Well, maybe now, somewhere, soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u648	569 amendments, authorship of Pottery, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:29:36]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 570. Gerasimov. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u649	As you can see, in principle, it's all like a voice screaming in the desert. By the way, the desert word is a very good fit for our session hall right now, there's literally a few people left here, everyone else is not interested in all of this, uninteresting. Maybe they'd be more interested to hear all of this, if we had a meeting right now under Time Jar or somewhere under Klischievka, or somewhere under Robotine, then maybe it would be more interesting and more visible, and why it's necessary, why it's military issues, why it's military issues, why it's the issue of demobilization, why it's the need to return the average salary to the military. We took from them last year the average wage they got before they mobilized. And there's a lot of people like that. What are we doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u650	570 repairs, Gerasim authors, Pavelka, Pottery. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[18:31:10]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 571th, Laba. Don't insist. 572, Laba. Don't insist. 573, Friz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u651	Thank you, Mr. Head. This is again about education, about training, about our higher education, which needs to increase funding today, and once again, you know, like a poor relative in a wealthy family, out of state attention. We think, and I support Mrs. Roxolana's thesis that money that we can accumulate in these difficult times has to be channelled in terms of direction. We believe in European Solidarity that education, education today, needs the support of the state, not the reduction of budget funding for their maintenance. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u652	573 amendments, by Fedina and Friz. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[18:32:28]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 574, by Veliczovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u653	Dear colleagues, the issue of education now is the question of our future. And so to ask about reducing the cost of education, it's just unacceptable. Education has always been underfunded, and in times of war it's still a matter of additional job conservation, supporting those educators, the scientists we have and who shape our young generation, the young scientists that follow. So we need to support the program and add some small money, but the money in the frame-up is now an investment in our future. Please support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u654	574 amendments, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:33:39]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 575. Ariev, please. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u655	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich. I'm continuing my lecture on why we can't vote for this law. Again with the press releases, which have been very carefully addressed in this issue. Costs of villages, villages, and cities are much more open to control both citizens and control units, and thus less corrupt. That's the first story. And I'm going to continue with a very interesting moment, whether the majors will vote for it. I would like to say that among those hundreds of councils that have taken decisions or petitions regarding the impossibility of the removal of VAT are the Santa Claus City Council. And I'd like to tell the voters from Santa. See how this decision, whether to take money into the community or not, will be voted by Pasic Alexander Stanislavovich, Negulevsky Igor Petrovich, who are elected, for example, in the Mikolai region or in the city of Mikolayev. It's going to be very interesting how they're set up in relative, actually, communities that trust them to represent themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u656	Pasic and Negulewski, don't you want the right to a replica? No, it's not. Thank you. Please, 575 amendments by Gerasimov, Arieva, Chigoza were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:35:21]] For the 10th. Decision Not Adopted Next amendment 576. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u657	Alexei Hotcharenko. Dear friends, I'm very sorry, because we actually have our job to do well. Imagine if on the front, our soldiers were taken and then separated from each other, just like we had broken up all the national MPs. Well, what would we have? If they were doing their job like our Parliament and our government are doing, well, sorry, well, then it's a disaster, then we won't have a country, well, we can't. Well, where are our, where are our, where are our colleagues, where are they, eh? Why are we 30 people here? Why is it not necessary for others to do so? Well, it's embarrassing, well, it shouldn't be. And really, if they were journalists and they were showing it, well, maybe they'd care, at least for them. It's just a shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u658	576 revision of the potterenko, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:36:50]] For-12. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 577. Gerasimov, please. Goncharenko. I forget everything. Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u659	Yeah, guys, here we go. We suggest increasing expenses where it is critical and reducing where it can be done. Obviously, the drums aren't on time, they're not on time, they're not on time that nobody needs asphalt, well, that seems to be understandable. But it also seems that for many of us the war is over and the colleagues have already forgotten that there's something going on, yes, no, we have drums, shows, asphalt. What about without asphalt? You can't live without him. And it's, well, it's amazing, and it's amazing, and it's very, very sad news for all of us. Because we are in an extremely difficult situation today financially, in a military sense, in a diplomatic way. We need to unite and fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u660	Dear colleagues, 577 revisions of Gerasim’s authorship, Pavlovka, Pottery. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:38:26]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next up, Laba, 578th. Don't insist. 579th, Laba. Don't insist. 580s, 581s, 582s, 583, 584s. Please, Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u661	I don't think Mr. Nekludov is going to be in the studio. I just wanted to say to my colleagues that the National MP just offered a leak. I don't think it's worth it and it was a joke. But, you know, it's too early to drink champagne. We will drink champagne for our victory when the Armed Forces of Ukraine expel all enemies from our country. When that happens, it's up to both you and the colleagues who stayed in the hall. If you and I are smart enough to count the extra money in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, they will be able to defeat the enemy more quickly, allow everyone to celebrate this great celebration that will take place in Ukraine. But so far, Roxolano Andriyevno, back to the suggestions and questions that have been pointed out, I'm truly surprised to see you today, for example, because you've completely agreed that the President's Office has an impact on this bill. You said you were totally in agreement with me. And he's not ready to allocate additional resources to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I didn't think such candor from your lips in the walls of the Supreme Council was possible, but thank you for your honesty, your position and your willingness to give honest information to colleagues in Parliament. This is really important information that they will hear on the front as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u662	Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next, 585th, Iron. Don't insist. 586th, Iron. Don't insist. 587th, Iron. Don't insist. 588th, Iron. Don't insist. 589th, Timoshenko. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u663	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the bill is really important, because both the Armed Forces of Ukraine and representatives of the other Defence Forces expect it to be approved. I hope we can do it tomorrow. But, dear fellows. By the way, the bill is expected to be passed and internally displaced persons are expected because they are also lacking in funds. What's happening to me right now is that the government itself has provoked, because when a government representative reported and said that there are some "hotels" in this bill, they are the same "hotels" that the government has planned: with regard to the additional funding of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Minfin, and so on. If it were split, we would have voted in the morning to allocate funds to the Defense Forces. And my job, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u664	Thank you. We don't vote in 589, Mikhail Mikhailovich. Thank you. 590s, 591s, 592s, 593, 594s. Smart. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute! I've already given reason. Well, come on, no, no. Dmitri Alexanderovich, your 5 amendments and I'll take Arthur Volodymyrovich out of the ladies' procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u665	Ruslan Alexiyovich, we're going to put these amendments to the vote. Parallel to the question and I want to hear the real answer to the committee head. This is an amendment that suggests transferring 350 million dollars to the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The 350 million dollars you put here are definitely not infrastructure costs, because it's very small. You and I understand that. I'd like to hear from you what are these 350 million Energy Departments planning to spend on? Or then, if it's for infrastructure, you have to point out that we're going to have enough money to secure our infrastructure and restore it, to prepare for the heating season and for the season when we're going to get the bleachers again, when the rascals are going to be beaten, and our people responsible for it won't be ready, just as many people weren't ready in 24.02.2022. So, Rocksolana Andriyovn, I'd like to hear the position that you're proposing to set out 350 million. And once again, if you think that's enough for all the necessary needs, please put this under the transcript so that there's something to operate on. Because it's important to the Ukrainians, it's important to our nation, I hope it's as important to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u666	Rocksolana Andriyevna, what is the position of the committee on these amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u667	These are the funds that the Ministry of Energy is supposed to return to the reserve fund that they have previously allocated on a pivotal basis. With regard to the energy objects that we really need to protect, we have allocated funds from the fund for the elimination of the consequences of armed aggression. The government approved the decision, and the budget committee agreed. More than 10 billion dollars have been allocated to energy protection facilities in the summer. And I hope that the responsible principals will do this and build these protective structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u668	Will you insist on these amendments? Place two of them, right? All five of them. 590 amendments, authorships of Razumkov. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[18:45:21]] For-9 The decision is not taken. 591 amendments, authorship of Reasonable and Colleague. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[6:45:41.]] For -14 The decision is not taken. 592 Amendments to Reasonable and Colleague. Please vote, 592nd. [[18:46:04]] For-13. 593 amendments to the authorship of Razumkov. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[18:46:25]] For-13. The decision is not taken. The following amendment 594, rejected by the committee, by Razumkov. Please vote. [[18:46:46]] For-12. The decision is not taken. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, what's your procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u669	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, as you recall, you made a decision, the presidency made a decision to preside over the session that we were going along the table. I wanted to point out that the following 595 revisions taken into account by the esteemed colleague of Forest Forgetful, we ask for confirmation. We're going over the table. Please set this to confirm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u670	We will, but as we agreed, at the end of the day before making a decision. 596 revisions, Friz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u671	Thank you, sir. The amendment applies to our veterans, it refers to assistance, social assistance for those who have special merit before the Father. It's a small amount of funding here, but I'm surprised why we're rejecting it. Because, on the one hand, veterans claim today, the state and authorities speculate on their patriotism and their willingness to defend the state. At the same time, it does not provide social guarantees or, for example, does not fully implement social guarantees that are clearly enshrined in current legislation. That is why we believe that the funding of this program is the responsibility of our state and our authority and our parliament to war veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u672	Thank you. Can we move on? 596 revisions of the authorship of Fedina and Friz. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:48:46]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 597. The committee's dismissed. Please, Bondar or Big Guy. Please, Big Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u673	A state in unpaid debt to its heroes. And I think it's very right for us to be able to help those veterans who deserve our attention. So I don't think there's anything that's so complicated and not so expensive to refuse to support these people. Especially in a sense. We have few people left who survived the Nazi camps. Because if we don't support them, and we don't support those who are veterans now, then what are we going to leave our children in the future?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u674	597 revision of the authorship of Veliczovich and Bondar. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[18:49:59]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 598th. Ariev, please. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u675	Dear colleagues in the majority, it's really not a monotony, but it's still a majority. Why can't we vote for this law? Now we are dealing with the issues of aid for those who have died, injured, veterans, those who need it. Now, pay attention! Did you know that the family of the deceased should receive 15 million dollars? Did you know that these payments are delayed? They don't pay. Families are often forced to sign certain papers or to confess something in order not to pay these costs. Now, attention: The Cabinet of Ministers is submitting the next draft of the bill. At the expense of the Ministry of Culture, they took the funds of one family of the deceased, at the expense of the funds for Mindowkills, two families of the deceased, and at the expense of the Ministry of Justice, six families of the deceased, and at the expense of the Ministry of Finance, 18 families died. This is the bill. That's why you can't vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u676	Dear colleagues, 598 amendments to Ariev’s National Deputies, Gerasimov, Chigoza was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:51:30.]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. 599, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u677	Alexei Hotcharenko. Guys, it's a very important readjustment. This refers directly to financial assistance to war veterans, all who have special merit. I want to remind you that we have a terrible situation with the status of a participant in combat. We've been in that working group that was created for months now, we can't work out, finally pass and vote on a bill that would make the status of a member of the fighting automatically. Why do our heroes have to write from the trenches, apply for personal data processing, look for copies of battle logs just to prove that they actually fought? Why do people who are really fighting have to prove it for months and even years? Well, let's do it automatically! He's got a combat bonus or he's got a wound, for God's sake, so UBD right now. I got no one asking for anything, and I want you to get the benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u678	Dear colleagues, the amendment of 599 by Hotcharyenko was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:53:00]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Amendment 600. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u679	I'm talking again, guys, it's very important, it's not just some kind of, you know, paper to someone, a shortcut. What is a fighter? A participant in combat is, first of all, respect for man, recognition of human merit. Secondly, it's the benefits, it's the support, it's the feeding of the child, it's the teaching of the child, it's the utility benefits. What does it mean that humans have not been formed for months? This means that these people are actually being lied to that these people are not adding what they have to add. And we have this question once and for all to decide, to give people the right that they deserve, and to give them the funding that they deserve, so they can get it, so it's not talk or talk. It's all very serious. Do you know how much the one - time allowance awaits those who have become disabled after the injury? Months, months. This is a huge challenge, let's solve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u680	599 revisions of Gončarenko's authorship. Uh, excuse me, 600 amendments. 600 revisions of Gerasim's authorship, Pavlovka, Pottery. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[18:54:40]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 601 revisions. Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u681	Thank you, Mr. Head. It is really about children, about the healing and recreation of children who need special attention, more about their recovery and recreation in the Carpathian region. I honestly don't understand why this amendment was rejected because it doesn't have such a large amount of funding, but it's important because it's about our children, who need psychological discharge as a minimum at the time of vacations in institutions where they can get adequate services. If we're already 206 million dollars for Kabmin's information and analysis work, why are we unable to allocate 20,000 dollars for this program in order for children to have the support and psychological support they need? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u682	601 Amendment of the authorship of Fedina, Friz. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[6:56:04]] For-13. The decision is not taken. The next 602 amendment. Please, Big Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u683	Roxolana Andriyovna, we talked to you at the beginning of the healing season about the need for the state to pay special attention to children who are in charge of the state, who are children of orphans. We remember our meeting on July 15, which never happened. And now we ask you to add funds for children who need special attention from the state. Why do they treat children for whom the State is responsible? Why the State can't understand. And we are a state, and Parliament is a state. Why is there no such support? Why are the interests of the State’s children ignored? Children who are deprived, children who are orphans. I'd like to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u684	602 revision of Bondar and Veliczovich's authorship. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[18:57:21]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Please make the next 603 amendments, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u685	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues of the majority, why can't we vote for this law? Even the previous analysis is so simple, yes, I have a tablet showing that the money that wants to spy or stutter in ministries and departments is enough for about 10,000 or 11,000 wavers. Here's 10-11,000 moviks. I'm just moving it into some human ordinary thing. In addition, you remember that this is about taking the PDF into local communities. Thus, in the Kyrovograd district of Golovanov, the District Council and the mass of city councils in the community voted not to have the VAT removed. So, honourable residents of the Golovanov region, I ask you to monitor how this law will be voted by Kubbit Yuri Mihajlovich, who was elected in the 101st district. Golovanovsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u686	If you want the right to a replica. National MP Cusbitt, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u687	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'll probably be clear if I say that the bill that was being prepared on my subcommittee is supported. That's like saying it. And with regard to the inhabitants of the Golovanov region, I'll tell you that I've had a conversation with our heads of OTG and, unlike some unconstructive heads of OTG, I have all the support of the Ukrainian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u688	Thank you. 603 Amendment, by Ariev, Gerasimov, Chigoza The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[18:59:27]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 604. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u689	This is about healing children. And of course, we need to talk first about the children of the military. And they have to get this chance to get better. We understand with you how difficult the situation is with families of military personnel at all. Thank God for that law that I've been trying to do for hours at the Supreme Council meeting, the Law on the Release of Military Servants. At least they were entitled to 30 days a year, plus time on the road, plus under family conditions. Even though they don't give everywhere, we're fighting it. So at least we gave them the opportunity after the adoption of this law, which I was fighting for here, then at least they came to their families, even though they saw their children, even though they were a little out of breath. But we have to keep moving, we have to help their children, their wives, we're doing it in the Honcharenko Centers, but this is what the state budgets are supposed to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u690	604 revision of the authorship of Pottery, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[19:00:56]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Out of procedure, please, Demchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u691	Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, your honor, let's acknowledge that today's meeting organization, well, is very imperfect. From the point of view of bullying, what the colleague said was probably also a necessary expression on his part. But if we have to for some reason, realizing that there is no quorum in the room, it takes a number of votes to make any decision, at least not to abuse those colleagues who are present in the room right now and are performing their duties. Let's still take some breaks to do the right thing, well, you can't have a committee head running for the right reasons and someone is replacing it. And there are other members of the Supreme Council of Deputies who are present, and they also need to coincide. But they do not want to coincide so that they do not vote because they have some responsibility for every amendment they listen to. Well, you can't say that we have the current mode when you want to - then get out. Well, let's make an organization more clear and make our meeting more adult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u692	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. 605 amendment, national deputy of Gerasimov. Please. Oh, Goncharenko, please, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u693	I want to continue this topic, this is a very, very, very important topic -- the theme of supporting the families of our military personnel, the theme of supporting them. You know, I was saying that one-time money aid can't be given to those who stopped, for God's sake, they got disabled because of the injury, because they've been waiting for it for months. Even worse, we can't have a month of adoption of a law that allows and empowers people with disabilities to demobilize groups I and III. Just think about it. Just think about it. So we don't give a group I-II disability. The disabled and the group are a very seriously ill person, you have to understand that. We do not allow people to be freed from the grips of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We keep them, we get them out of the state very often, they don't get anything, so this is the right approach to our defenders.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u694	Dear colleagues, 605 amendments by Gerasimov, Pavelka, and Hotcharyenko were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[19:03:51]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 606. Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u695	Thank you, Mr. Head. If we're talking about a war, about a siege to our protectors and protectors, because we're capable of continuing our lives and defending, so to speak, the back of our country, I have a big question, why don't we direct the government's money to the social protection program for children and families? Who do you think is on the front today being protected by our defenders and protectors rather than by children and families of Ukrainians? So I do have a huge request to look at the possibility and allocate it to funding. Because if we're allocating 206 million dollars to Kabmin's analytics, I think we're able to allocate a little more than 2 million dollars to this program for our children and families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u696	606 amendments, by Fedina and Friz, were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[19:05:21]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 607. Big guy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u697	Dear colleagues, in the present family conditions, are extremely vulnerable parts of society when men are at war, and women are often forced to take care of children themselves, when wives with children are forced to survive the truths and the lies. And the State that is obliged to support is very often avoiding this responsibility. Let us support at least a small cost, but at least this program of support for families with children. It is very common for families to be vulnerable when there are no more husbands when, for one reason or another, they are forced to run their own household. So let's support it because it's the future. Children are our future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u698	607 amendments, by Bondar, Veliczovich, were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[19:06:41]] For-16 Show the factions, please. The decision is not taken. Please. So that's your amendment, that makes sense. Please, next 608. Ariev, please. Or Gerasimov? Please, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u699	Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! Why can't we vote for this bill? Because city councils and local councils are very expensive, but they don't. This is the treatment of the wounded, especially in the frontal communities. You remember that specialized hospitals are only in district centers, and no one will give these numbers unless these numbers are asked in district hospitals. It's the current help of military personnel who move or live in communities, it's the rehabilitation of veterans, their socialization, their return to life. And in addition, it's about PFCs. And for example, I'd like to say that the Hmelnick District Council, the Hmelnick City Council, voted in order to keep the PDF from being removed. As for this, we need to follow the voters, Stefanchuk Mikola Alexiyovich, elected to Hmelnicki, Kopachuk Olena Evgenyvna (the town of Krasilov) and Marcuk Igor Petrovich (the Kamyanec-Podilski). So let's see how they vote for these laws, if they take money from local communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u700	Thank you. Dear colleagues named Mikola Alexiyovich, Copanczuk, or Marcuk do not want to answer, yes. Okay. They're out of line. Let's move on. 608 Amendment of Ariev, Gerasimov, Chigoza The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:08:34]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 609. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u701	Thank you. We are talking again about families, families, and children. I want to give you this very interesting mathematics, this interesting and interesting mathematics. We have a child's allowance of 860 dollars per month for a child under 3 years of age. Once again, 860 bucks. Do you know how much a pack of diapers costs? Well, the monthly package, well, I'm on one site, I'm not doing any commercials, it's still a good price -- 1 thousand 849. 860 per month per child and only one pack of diapers is 1 thousand 850 bucks. Are we making fun of people? What is going on in general, and how do we plan our lives like this? I'm going to continue this conversation in the next direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u702	609 Correction of the potterenko, rejected. Please vote. [[19:09:59]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 610, also to Hotcharyenko, as far as I can tell. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u703	Yes, Alexei Hotcharenko. I want her right in front of me, and I took her with me because I understand that you're not listening at all. You just don't listen to anything, so I took it straight and I'm writing it again for the baby. I write: the child is 860 dollars a month. Please see, 860 bracelets per child per month. Peamers. The system can't handle it. A thousand 850 bracelets is a package. Please tell me. Here, please. Oh, I hear colleagues here say it's not like that. Well, maybe it's not the ones you buy when you're summoned to the NAB, I don't know, maybe it's different. But they're diapers, too. And these are diapers that cost twice what we give.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u704	Alexia, I didn't know you were a diaper specialist. You're doing a hell of a job here. 610 revisions. Declined by the committee. Authors: Gerasimova, Pavlovka, Pottery. Please vote. [[19:11:39]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. The next amendment, there will be five: 611, 612, 613, 614, 615. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u705	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'd like to say to my colleagues that if the level of corruption in our country doesn't go down, I'm afraid that a large number of colleagues, including in this room, will have to buy, go to Pottery to consult on diapers for the NABU. Unfortunately, yes, it is for those who are now engaged in this corruption. And I'm really hoping that the corrections made by the "Smart Politics" team to allocate an additional 700 million to the SAP and 700 million to the NAB will help some in this room to buy these diapers more quickly. It's not just buying them, it's putting them on. I see you don't want it, I understand. And I can see why. But here, you know, the law is one for all and there's going to be a way through it. And I really hope that, despite all of this, you'll have enough to vote for, because the President says that we have to fight corruption, our international partners say we have to fight corruption, they say we won't give you money if we keep stealing budget money. But it doesn't all come to that. So it's proposed to increase the effectiveness of our anti-corruption bodies, and I can see in the eyes that the votes for this are not going to be much, to increase the effectiveness of our anti-corruption bodies in order to really get the corrupters to be held accountable faster. This is one of the key questions that boys and girls ask on the front. Frankly, it's no longer a joke now, because the corruption that thrives today in the country breaks them apart sometimes worse than Russian shells.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u706	Dmitri Alexanderovich, do you know what I agree with? That those guilty of corruption need to be dressed, not diapers, but bonds, and that they should be brought to justice, which is legally binding. And that's what the rule of law is all about. And here I am also a supporter of the fact that everyone who is guilty of corruption must be properly punished. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next, Iron Man, he's gone. The railroad takes off, too. No, Nekludov. Oh, you've made your point. 619. Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u707	Thank you very much. We turn to the fact that finances are being redistributed, not between the priority sectors and the spheres, but by the confusion of those who have written down these incomes and budget expenditures by the end of the year. 619. Colleagues, it refers to the 2501530 budget programme, which reads as follows: "Social protection of citizens who are in difficult circumstances." Colleagues, I emphasize that these people are categorized by internally displaced persons, people who have suffered from the aggression that is taking place today in the state. So that's how we don't finance the Ministry of Social Policy on this program, by taking money from them, we're actually talking to our internals.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u708	Fellow dignitaries, 619 revisions of the authorship of the Fedina and the Friz Committee were rejected. Please vote. [[19:15:52]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Next. 620. Please, who? Bigwich. Who's out of the procedure? Come on, Big Man, then I'll give you the procedure. Please, Big Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u709	Dear colleagues, why are there people who are in difficult circumstances to suffer? Why can't the state take over, and at least part of it can help? Why can’t he put aside small funds that might or might not be given to these people? Very often these are people who have really left their homes who have abandoned all the property that they have been using for decades. And very often such people are left alone with their problems. And so it's not clear why they decided not to help them, not to take them to support them, because these are our people, these are our citizens, these are our people who need such special attention. Very often, they are modest and afraid, and they cannot afford to go out on their own. Let's support these.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u710	620 amendments to Bondar's authorship were rejected by the committee. People's deputies, please vote. Bondar and Great Authorship. [[19:17:27]] For-12. The decision is not taken. Please, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u711	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, I would like to point out that the rapporteurs of the amendments speak precisely about the amendments because they are very often distracted. And I would also like to point out that very often, and the corrections that are being talked about, they're being made incorrectly, sometimes ridiculously, and they're simply impossible to do in a form of filling. And to colleagues who are very concerned about diapers, I would like to recommend that children’s kindergartens be built up in Odeschen. And I recommend that everyone like a father, a little over a year old, buy Ukrainian diapers that are much cheaper. But in fact, 860 dollars is not enough to provide for the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u712	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is the right call. Let's get closer to the amendments. 621, who do we have? Gerasimov. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. 621 repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u713	Ladies and gentlemen, I will return to you as to why we cannot vote in favour of this law. During the 2022-2023 period, only 754 communities, which were accounted for without compensation from the State budget, spent more than 27 billion dollars, including more than 5 billion in medical workers, on the payment of the deficit of nearly 5 billion education subsidies, on the transfer of nearly 10 billion dollars to support the maintenance of the labour market. That's why you need the PFO, that's why you can't take it. I haven't talked about the hot season yet. And I would also like to say that, for example, decisions against the PDF were taken by the councils, the local councils of the Dubensk district, the Ravensk district, and the Rhine region. And we need to see how Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, elected in the city of Raven, Alexander Vasilovich, the city of Dubno, and Litwinenko Sergey Anatoliyovich, the city of Sarna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u714	Traditionally, are there colleagues who want to exercise the right to a replica? They do not want to take advantage of their right to reply. Thank you. Please, let's move on. 622 amendments, national MP Goncharenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Arthur, we're here. I'll give it to you after the potter's. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u715	Thank you. I'd like to respond here. It turns out that whether we build or not, we don't have the authority, friends, no, it's probably the children themselves or their parents' responsibility, it's interesting. It's just this amazing advice, you know, it's fantastic. We all remember: Change the dog to pay for the utility. It's a historical meme. True, this did not prevent a person from now acting as chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. So now the new advice: Buy cheaper diapers. And that's what the people's servants who bought lexuses, Mercedes, worse during the war. So maybe you could buy yourself a cheap Mercedes, maybe you could take a lexus at a cheap price, maybe you could use a cheap Porsche.Oh, my God! What do you say people have to buy cheaper diapers? Do you have a conscience at all?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u716	For justice's sake, the man said, not "cheapers," but "natives." So let's actually be more correct to the original, not overwind. Dear colleagues, 622 revisions of the authorship of Potterenka have been rejected. Please vote. [[19:21:32]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. The next 632 amendments, please, Gerasimov. Goncharenko, please, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u717	I quote exactly what was said: buy the natives, they're cheaper. So don't buy diapers, because it's expensive, it's a thousand 860 bracelets, it's really expensive. And we can buy watches for tens of thousands of dollars, cars, new houses -- it's not expensive in Thailand to rest during the war -- it's not expensive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u718	Can we get closer to your repair, Alexei Alexiyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u719	Yes, you can. And when you give your word and they say anything, they talk about kindergartens.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u720	It's you, Alexeiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u721	You haven't interrupted anyone, either, Mr. Ruslan. You didn't ask what we have here, are we measuring the price of diapers? You didn't interrupt, and I'm reacting now and I'm saying that all of these changes, they're all about giving money to those who really need it. And not the "slaves" that are different, which, judging by how they drive, how they walk, they have absolutely fine. They still have the courage to say, ‘ Buy some cheap diapers and sell the dog to pay for the gas. ’
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u722	Alexei Alexiyovich, I would ask you, if possible, closer to the amendments, because some of them are meaningful, and we would like to hear the essence of what you're proposing, not just the emotions in this room that are not worth anything. We're not taking any liquids here. I realize it's time for a leak where it's 7:00, but that's not why we're here. Please, 623 amendments, it is rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[19:23:27]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Next, 624th, the Iron Man doesn't insist. 625th, Fedina, Friz. Please, Friz, that's what I understand. Yes, Irina? Please. 625th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u723	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Head. Colleagues, all those who have patience, and I understand it, are 100 percent of those who have read all the adjustments to these changes to the budget and understand what they are talking about. I urge you not to vote for these changes in this way because they are antisocial. The next amendment we now propose concerns the support of low-income families. If we are talking about the need to increase the financing of the security and defence sector and to address priority issues, and if we really care about our people, what should not the provision of low-security families from the State be a priority if we are really a democratic and not an authoritarian state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u724	625 revisions. She's been rejected by the committee. The authorships of Fedina and Friz. People's deputies, please vote. [[19:24:53]] For-12. The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 626 of Bondar and Veliczovich's authorship. Please, Big Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u725	Dear colleagues, when we discuss three committees this summer: the budgetary, social, and humanitarian issues of senior health, it was a matter of priority for children from low-income families, and the cost needed to be directed there, the more appropriate the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. And that's why it's very strange to watch an adjustment that allocates money to such families -- low-income families -- it's a rejection. I don't understand. Why is that? I believe that these families are very often in need, and because they are very often, such families are to a large extent those who have had to leave their homes in occupied or those regions that are now being shot at. Therefore, the request to support this amendment and vote in favour of those families who, unfortunately, still have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u726	626 The amendment by Bondar, the Grand Committee, was rejected. Please vote. [[19:26:25]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 627. Ariev. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u727	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Why can't we vote for this law? One of the key reasons, one of the key sources, is that of local budgets. Thus, in just 2022-2023, local authorities spent more than 62 billion dollars of their own resources to support critical infrastructure enterprises and to keep tariffs on heat and water for citizens. If it hadn't been for this PDF, winters would have been possible, to be honest. And now this money is often spent preparing for winter. And besides, I'd like to say that you know, also among those local councils that made decisions against having them take it away, there's the Czernovetsec City Council. And I would like the people of Cherniv to be very careful about how Lisa Olena Georgievna, who was elected in 201 district in Chernivka, will vote for this. Will she take the money to the local community or not? Thank you for your attention. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u728	627 Amendments by Ariev, Gerasimov and Chigoza The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:27:53]] For-12. 627, the rejected amendment remains. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Give me back how much. For 12. The decision is not taken. That's amendment 627. I'm a little tired. Well, it's okay. 628th, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u729	Goncharenko. The editor, the chairman, the speaker of the Supreme Council, asked for the substance of the amendment. Please. To complement the changes: support for low-income families, add 4 million 123 thousand dollars. Actually, I get it. Please support low - income families, which today are very difficult. Do we have any idea what the problem is today before Ukraine? We're losing people today three times: we're losing people on the front, we're losing people in the back because of the rocket attacks and the Shahedes, and we've seen Kupyansk today, we're losing, we're having a catastrophic birth. And we're still paying 860 dollars and we're not helping low-income families, and every day of the war, that's clear, that means that someone who's gone abroad will never come back. Three times.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u730	628 repairs to the potter. Declined by the committee. Please vote. [[19:29:40]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 629, Hotcharyenko. Yes, please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u731	Thank you. I'm a little bit of a numeral, because I understand that I said something, people lose, you don't care, I'll write it to you. When Ukraine became independent in the 91st year. 91st year, we had a birth rate of 2.3. Before the invasion, this figure fell to 1.3, 2021 — 1.3. Now we have 2023, this is 0.7. If we don't change state policy now, and I want people to see it now, if we don't change state policy now, if we don't start supporting the family, the mother, the child, in 10, 20 years, we won't have anyone to represent in this sessionary Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, think about it. Well, that's not clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u732	Please, is there a committee position? Would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u733	Alexiyyovich, let me raise my birth rate.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u734	Let's vote, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] Not now, Alexeiyyovich! Not now! Dear colleagues, the amendment of 629 by Gerasim, Pavelka and Hotcharyenko, is rejected by the committee, so I understand it is in vain, but please. I'll put her to the vote. [[19:32:04]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Please, let's move on. 630. Please, Friz.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u735	Thank you, Mr. Head. The amendment refers to the need to increase expenditure on a budget programme involving material assistance to military personnel released from military service. It actually needs a little funding, it's only 406,000. But even this increase in this budget programme has been rejected. I still have a question. I mean, why are all the fines actually censored by the European Solidarity factions without proper consideration and analysis of at least a clear performance of what we have proposed? We offered not only expenses but also sources from which these articles would be filled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u736	630 revisions of the authorship of Fedina and Friz. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[19:33:32]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 631. Please, Big Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u737	Dear colleagues, experts who are freed and in need of help. Is it such a big problem to set aside that small amount to support them? At first, I told you that we were making complex repairs and where to get the money, and where to add it, and who to add it to. You offered to take the Minister's office and add it to the defense sector. I realize that officials in the warm office need more money than those with guns in their hands who protect the country. Let's do the approach that they're primarily those with guns in their hands that protect, including the waistcoats.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u738	631 revision of Bondar and Veliczovich's authorship. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:34:52]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 632. Please, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u739	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. You know, it's about paying off military personnel, and quite often these payments are made by local communities. I would like to remind you once again that on September 1st, security and defence from the military PDF was targeted at the need for our defences at over 45 percent of these costs. And why they were all very transparent expenses, at the request of the military, at their confirmation and under constant control. And also, you know, as I said before, more than 200 councils have already voted in favour of the decision against the removal of VAT because it's local self-government. And I'm going back to the Mikolai region, and I'd like to remind you once again that the Mikolai City Council voted in favour of this decision. And I'd like to mention, at the request of Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich, let's say, mention him in order for him to answer the voters, whether he's willing to take the money to the local communities or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u740	Please, Dirdin, if you want, you can answer the line. Please, Dirdin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u741	Thank you for bringing me up, Mr. Arthur. The Mayan City Council did not support a draft decision initiated by the local "EU" faction in the city of Pervomaysk. Even the mayor of Pervomaysk himself did not vote for this because they understand that all MPs understand the importance of the matter. And as for the military PFC in the town of Pervomaysk, I'll tell you that there were 524 million dollars in the year and a year and a half of them went to the military, 39 million dollars, that's 8 percent. The city council’s salary was 65 million dollars. 65 million dollars! And in February, your faction voted in the city of Pervomaysk to keep the mayor's salary from the forbidden opposition block three times, and the average wage is 180,000 dollars. It's your EC party in Pervomaysk that supported the forbidden party that you're talking about right now that we're doing something wrong. Take a look at what your one - party members do in the city of Pervomayk when they support a three - fold wage during the war. It's a disgrace to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u742	Dear colleagues, please make the following 633 amendments. Honcherenko Alexiyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u743	Thank you. Well, first of all, colleagues, we had a specific reference to the head of the budget committee. I think the men of the budget committee who are still here are ready to support you in some way. To release you so you can go, raise your birth rate, we'll be happy about it, and we'll report it, it's not a problem. I'm also working on the budget committee and, if necessary, ready to go to the rostrum and present the committee's position, believe me, this will be a clear position of the committee at all levels. So please, I'm willing to replace you because I understand that this is difficult and it takes time. After all you've said, our entire session looks different, because we have our speaker on a periodic basis, and now I don't know where, and other colleagues are going out. So I think, my friends, it's very serious, and we're ready to lay our shoulders, shoulders, shoulders.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u744	Alexi, where I'm going, your shoulder won't help me, believe me. Let's move on. 634th. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, and there must be a faction in Parliament, it's clearly in the Rules, it's clearly in the Rules. Dear colleagues, let's move on, 634th, Honcharenko. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u745	It's a regulation on stringers. By the way, it's also a very, very serious question. It is just today that Ukrainians and their families are being bullied by their peers. In October of the month, there will be three years as some of them serve, because they were called to term service, and then they would be demolished in the spring of 2022, and then a full-scale war and a massive invasion would begin, and they would not demobilize. In the Supreme Council of Ukraine is part of the draft Law on the Demobilization of Serkovniks. Let them go, you hold them as slaves. As long as it takes, three years, young people, by the way, and birth will rise, and the economy will rise. How long are we gonna keep them? Paying them off is bullying at all. Before I passed the law, which I co-authored, they had 400-500 dollars a month. Only now it's 6,000. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u746	634 revisions, Gerasim authors, Pavelka, Pottery. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[19:40:16]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 635. Please, we have a Friz.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u747	Thank you, Mr. Head. Once again, I would like to address both the Kabmin representatives and the majority representatives. If we continue Parliament's practice of antisocial politics and actually get the poor and the pensioners into begging, this government will soon get social opposition inside the state. I want to remind you that this year's pension, the continuation of its identification by the end of the year, means that in fact people, pensioners, are forced to live on the pensions that were set up for them at the beginning of the year. To be known, the minimum pension in 2023 amounts to 2,000 93 dollars. Can anyone survive on that money? That's why we, European Solidarity, propose to increase the 2506080 program by 4 billion dollars to give.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u748	635 amendments, by Fedina and Friz. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:41:46]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 636, Grand Chief, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u749	Dear colleagues, when we're talking about the lack of money in the Pension Fund, when we're talking about the fact that the pensions of our esteemed older people don't fit in with reality, the real prices when we're talking about raising, it's completely incomprehensible that the position is why we don't add extra funds to this program. We think it's probably one of those important moments to support the older people who, in terms of rising prices, now count a penny. Let's support our needy pensioners at least with the little money we can spend on them now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u750	Thank you. Please, 636 revisions of Bondar, Veliczovich were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[19:43:06]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Please, next amendment 637. Please, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u751	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. You know, even a superficial analysis shows that the actual billions of bracelets that this bill places on the security and defence sector can be directed at the Ukrainian Armed Forces, at our border guards, at the National Guard, at the Central Intelligence Directorate, and so on, and so on and so forth. Why doesn't that happen? It's a big question, just for the budget committee. And also, you know, going on, one of the main sources is the PFO. And the decision against the removal of PDF was taken by the Poltava District Council. And I really want to see if they're going to vote to take money from their communities, Dmitry Alexanderovich (city Poltava, elected), Boblah Andry Rostislavovich (city of Poltava), Láshenko Anastasia Alexiyivna (Lubna), Kasi Kostin Ivanovich (Karlovka), Mobchan Aleksij Vasilovich (Gorishni Plavni) and Bérezin Maksim Yuriovich of Lochwicz. This is going to be very interesting. They're going to take money from their communities, or they're not going to take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u752	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize that if you need to exercise your right to a replica, you can do so. No one wants to. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Next 638. Honcharenko, please, Alexeiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u753	Yeah, it's 638. She's talking about the next thing. Of course, we talked a lot today about military and military assistance. But not just the military. Financial security and pensions are also a very important issue. Friends, well, today's pension, well, pension is 2,000, 520 bucks a month. Two thousand five hundred and twenty dollars. I'm showing you, please, 2 grand 520 bucks. I don't know how to live for that amount. I understand that the state is difficult, war and all, and we can't give much. But why can we give the drums, the shows, and the Alexander Simeonovich Fellowship to Green Life? Well, is that the world's poorest pensioner? Well, with all due respect, this is our President's father. I can't understand it, and I call for my approval to add money to those pensioners who are really poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u754	638 repairs to the potter. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[19:45:52]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Let's move on. Next, 639. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u755	"European Solidarity." Guys, we're moving on. This is a very important follow-up. She's talking about the same thing, the Pension Fund. And I think a lot of Ukrainians find that interesting. Unfortunately, we don't have direct broadcasts of the Supreme Council anymore, as always, the entire history of an independent Ukraine has been these broadcasts. Someone was watching, someone wasn't watching, but it was. Journalists, who were filled with this bed, are no longer there. We don't let them in here because there's some kind of crazy danger. Why is it possible to live all over the country and go into hiding during air trouble and cannot live in the Supreme Council? I don't understand. But we've closed the Supreme Council, turned it into a completely closed environment in which there's absolutely no such thing going on, and we're not showing anything to people. I, in principle, understand why we don't show that they don't see this disgrace. These two voices are "ministers of the people" for pension insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u756	Well, five from the second faction. Six, yes. Okay. 639 Amendment of the People’s Deputy Gerasim, Pauline and Hotcharyenka The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:47:38]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. And then we have a series of amendments. 640s, 641s, 642s, 643, 644s. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u757	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I think we need to get to the bottom of this. Well, first of all, Roxolano Andriyevno, your request has been heard, you've been denied. Sadly, there are very few intelligent people left in the hall. If you go, it'll be one less. This is definitely wrong. And yet I think there should be more intelligent people in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And as we go back to your cluster of questions, unfortunately, we are once again faced with the fact that voting for different factions -- and the Servants of the People -- and the "Smart Politics" and the "European Solidarity" teams, and others who have made proposals today, unfortunately they don't get the required number of votes. I don't understand the approaches that are today, I'm in the majority today. I remember the committee meeting. Well, all of our corrections were reviewed in three minutes, the general timing of the committee was, I think, maybe more than an hour, plus-minus one hour, and it's not possible to view a thousand rights. And you get it, it's a non-professional approach, it's a non-professional approach. Nevertheless, I would like to see us walk in every direction. And I think then more than 12 or 13 rights would be counted. Moreover, there are those who will definitely be conflicts of interest for some of our colleagues in Parliament with you. I think you'll have to answer for that too a little bit later. We will continue to have corrections, I will insist on them, and I will ask you to continue to answer those questions that concern me and those who look at us, our voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u758	645 Amendment of the authorship of Fedina, Fryz. Please, Friz.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u759	Thank you, Mr. Head. This right over here, we're proposing to increase budget expenditure by 2601030. It concerns the execution of state-of-the-art programs, the reform and development of the defence and industrial complex, the development, the development, the introduction of new technologies, the power of existing manufacturing and the production of defence products. We think that the increase in expenditure under this program should be over 5.5 billion dollars, because the development of our own domestic defence and industrial complex is a guarantee of our ability to give quality back to the enemy in the fighting zone. Therefore, I ask you to put this amendment to the vote. Unfortunately, there are no colleagues in the hall, but in any case we can also sound it when we consider the confirmation rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u760	The 645 amendment of the authorship of Fedina and Friz was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[19:51:21]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. The following amendment is made by 646 authors Bondar and Veliczovich. Please, Big Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u761	Dear colleagues, our country's military-industrial complex is what can give Ukraine not only a weapon of victory, but also in the future it's an additional financial coming into the budget from the export of those technologies that we can now provoke and test, and that's what the whole world has seen. Our military development is what we can be proud of, our scientific potential and our capabilities. So it's not clear why it's impossible to add extra funds to our GDP, because it's going to give us extra weapons to win, and in the future, extra budget revenue. So we're asking you to back up the bill to allocate almost 5.5 billion extra dollars to our PDA.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u762	Amendment 646, by Bondar and Veliczovich. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:52:45]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 647, Gerasimov. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u763	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The support of the defence and industrial complex is critical for any country in the world, especially Ukraine. And, you know, we all remember, in 2019, in 2019, in 2020, rocket programs stopped, purchase programs stopped, Ukrainian weapons developed: "Vilha", "Goddana", "Stugna." The apopheus of this story was when in November, if I'm not mistaken, in 2022 there was an open line for the production of ammunition that was purchased in 2018 and opened in 2018. So Ucrobanprom rediscovered it, and the question arose: What did it do in this war? In addition, I want to remind you that one of the key elements of this law is VAT. And decisions against the removal of PDF were made, for example, by the City Council. And it will be very interesting to know how Vasili Igor Volodymyrovich will vote in favour of this vote, which was just chosen in The Watchtower. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking for permission to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u764	Thank you. 647 revisions. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:54:10]] For-12. The decision is not taken. 648 revisions. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u765	Alexei Hotcharenko. I'm continuing my military and military support. Edit 648 provides for the allocation of funds directly to our Armed Forces, namely for the development of targeted programs, so that we can raise our own defenses so that we can have real Ucrobanprom, not blood-prom, where they bring everything, bring volunteers to pay our military personnel at last the ones they deserve. So that we can raise the issue of demobilization at last and speak honestly about what it takes. So that we can do our limited work, so that we can take care of our classmates, instead of drums, serials and everything. It's a draft for the army, for the victory. I understand you're here in 30 people's room in total, nobody cares, but people are interested. And we will certainly show people how it works and why you don’t care.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u766	648 repairs to the potter. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:55:39]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. The following 649 revisions by Gerasimov, Pavelka, Pottery. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u767	Moving on to the next 649. I just want to pay attention, to the fact that there's just been a vote for our army. Ten deputies voted in favour of, two of them, the Servant of the People. In the Supreme Council, 235 "ministers of the people," it looks like 250, someone was put in jail, someone became a collaborator, and he's already at the Cobzon concert, now 235. Two of them voted for the army for the military. But we keep going, because I already have this, the ninth hour is going on, so we insist: give the army, give it to the military, give it to the police rescuers, give it to everyone, give it to the railroaders, give it to the mom who gets 860 bucks. And for everything, no, and for all this abuse, 10 votes, 2 votes, 3 votes. Bullying! Do you have a conscience at all that our military are thinking about you in the trenches?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u768	649 repairs to Gerasim, Pavlovka, Pottery. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[19:57:19]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Beautiful. Let's move on. Next amendment to 650, the railroad doesn't insist. 651s. The railroad doesn't insist. 652. The railroad doesn't insist. 653, 654, 655, 656, 657. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u769	No, Ruslan Alexiyovich, 653-656. I see Roxolani Andriyevni has already brought a chair. We're gonna feel like Bocho, right? We're going into full-time mode. I got it, I could have done it. And I think Solski was crying right now, because in his day when they accepted the land, he was standing for a few. Roxolano Andriyovno, please, I don't mind. But if we go back to the right again, I would like to point out that it's already nine o'clock, we're really struggling to add to our army. I don't understand why the majority, together with the government, are so opposed to increasing funding for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I think we can talk about education today and other aspects of our activity. But really one of the key questions is the issue of financing the army. I can't find a logical explanation for why you're still not ready to accept an amendment that would increase the funding of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by nearly 11 billion, to vote on the law as a whole, and to finish today's work day, and not to continue to stand and listen to the fines that are really correct and aimed at securing the financing of the Ukrainian army. So maybe you're going to change your position and you're going to support an increase of 11 billion, all the more so that we've clearly pointed out all the sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u770	Thank you. Please correct the following amendments: 657, 658, 659, 660, 661, right? And 662. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u771	No, no, Ruslan Alexiyovich, you've already counted six, and we're four. 57, 58, 59 and 60.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u772	Well, you just didn't sound the new rules, you said four, so I thought that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u773	No, no, no, no, four to go, I think that's the way it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u774	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u775	Rocksolana Andrienne, I wanted to know 4 and 360. 4 billion 360 million dollars you're allocating to the Ministry of Strategic Industries of Ukraine. What are the goals of these sums, which. It's not, I take it, closed information, otherwise it would go to different graphs, but I'd like to understand clearly where we are, and just like Marcenk and I have a total of the sums spent on the Ministry of Finance. He was able to answer questions about where he was going. I don't really argue in this case that this is probably the right thing to do, but I would like to, and I think that everyone who's in and out of the room today is going to hear where this is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u776	Please give me a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u777	In the Ministry of Strategic Industry, there's a program. It's called "Implementation of State-based reform and industrial development programmes, development and implementation of new technologies, as well as the development of existing production capacities for the production of defence purposes." To put it simply, Minstrategprom is launching weapons and ammunition production in Ukraine. By the way, Ukrainian weapons, which our fellow national deputies, such as Neptune, such as Stugna, were talking about a little bit earlier, like our ammunition, which is only being produced in Ukraine right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u778	Thank you. Please, Bakumov from the procedure. Please turn on the Bakumov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u779	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address each and every one of you and say, please don't mock a man, a colleague of ours, a national deputy of Ukraine, who has spent hours behind the rostrum and is responsible for his duties and responsibilities as head of the committee that authorized her to stand up for the bill. If our colleague was brought a chair, because, of course, it is uncomfortable, not just uncomfortable, but even difficult to stand behind the rostrum for hours (how long?) More than seven hours. This should be treated with understanding, not with a smile at it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u780	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 661, 662. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I'm in. I'll give you this correction later. Now, Dmitri Alexanderovich, his revision: 661, 662, 664, 665. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've explained everything, colleagues. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich. 661, 662, 664, 665.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u781	664th, Ruslan Alexiyovich, extreme. I actually think it's the right thing for colleagues to say, Rocksolana Andriyevna is good, she's standing for more than 8 hours, and no one actually smiles at her, because unlike many committee heads, she can not only be responsible for the area of responsibility. I've already talked about this today, and I'm saying it again. But neither should we. I don't think anyone will. But if we're talking about revisions. Roxolano Andriyovno, I'd like to ask you how far it's been allocated, you have it in the tables, it's open information, it's on Minstrategprom and it's actually on Ucroborinprom. Where the last checker went, we know he went to subjugate the other directions. But the effectiveness of this money leaves us with a desire for a better one. So there are no questions for Kamishin today objectively. But I would like to know if it will happen as it did before: the money will be received and lost. Have you analyzed this bill in order to understand clearly how effectively the committee conducted it, how effectively you will be able to use it? I mean, the state will be able to use these funds effectively in the person of the above-mentioned Ministry. I'm sure you can answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u782	A brief committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u783	They've already had 7 billion 600 million dollars in funding this year, and they're using it. Not only are they using it on Ucroborprom, because the production of ammunition and weapons in Ukraine is also being carried out on state-owned enterprises that are not part of the Ucroborprom, and on private enterprises, and even state defence orders are being ordered by private arms companies. But with regard to monitoring the efficiency of using these funds, we have proposed an amendment, particularly to Bill 10037, which we will consider to be the next one to consider that the Defence Committee, which includes representatives of all factions, will agree on the direction of use of these funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u784	Thank you. Please move on to 665. Oh, please. Arthur Volodymyrovich, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u785	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, we have decided to follow the chart. I want to see you again under the transcript. The decision to go on the table means that we're going from editing to editing, and we're now going to 663 amendments that are counted. According to the Rules and according to the ruling of the Presidium, we must now proceed to the vote for it. I'm asking you to put in a 663 confirmation form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u786	Arthur Volodymyrovich, you're a little careless, I understand, we're all tired, we've already gone through 664 revisions. And so I'm going to announce 665ths, 666ths, 667ths, 668ths. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u787	And in this case, 69th. Let's do something about this process. Rocksolana Andriyovn, we had a question about the State Property Fund. Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine. Please tell me there's 16.5 billion extra dollars. What needs should these costs go against the fact that we have recently heard the minister’s position on how payments will be cut? And unfortunately, this question is stuck in the air, we don't have the complete understanding, and our voters with you don't fully understand what was meant to be taken away from them, what their social guarantees would be reduced, narrowed down by the Constitution. I would like to remind you all that the tightening of social guarantees, the deterioration of them for our fellow citizens with you, prohibits the Basic Law of our State. And in parallel, we see an increase in finance for the ministry by 16.5 billion, 16 billion 511 million. Please tell me, where exactly are these funds planned? My team and I have offered different options: and the increase in living minimum, and the increase in living minimum for the child, and many other things in the previous budget, when the budget for the 23rd year was adopted, they were also rejected, and we will also offer it to the budget for the 24th year. But now that we're talking about the 23rd year budget changes, I'd like to understand what was put here, where you're going, you're planning to send 16 billion 511 dollars?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u788	Please take a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u789	It's no expense to the Ministry. These are social protection expenses for citizens who are in difficult circumstances, especially in this case in the bill for payments to internally displaced persons who are expected to take place within the next three months.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u790	Dear colleagues, the following amendments are 670, 671, 672, 673. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u791	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Rocsolana Andriyovna, who accepted a budget for 2023 where such expenses were to be taken into account. Please tell us, how many people have we increased in need of such support? If it's increased, how much, and what's the calculation of this 16.5 billion? If it did not increase, why was it that the budget did not provide money for payments to fellow countrymen who had suffered from Russian aggression? Why were they unaccounted for when they accepted it in November 2022? Why is the situation repeated as it was with the wages of our defenders. With the extras, I'm sorry, for our protectors, when the "thirty" was just taken quietly and told about what the military asked us to do. They were asked not to be paid 30,000 extras. If these funds were not included in the budget for 2023, I would like to understand why, who is personally responsible for this. And are you prepared to name these people specifically? This is the head of your previous committee, this is the Ministry of Finance, are they members of the committee? These are the national MPs who voted for this. Yet, the question is simple enough. How many have been added to the internally displaced? One. And if not, if the figure did not increase seriously, note why they were not included in the budget for 2023. Thank you. That's three months. Did you think that they would not live to that term?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u792	Thank you, Your Honor. Next. Please, Rocsolana Andriyevna, if you have a wish, an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u793	I can only refer here to data provided by ministries and official officials who are responsible for internal displacement issues. In particular, on September 1, Deputy Prime Minister Irina Vereshuk claimed that the number of displaced persons since September 2022 had increased by 300,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u794	Dear colleagues, let's move on. 674, from 674 to 677 are the repairs of Iron, Clumsy and Cabal. They don't insist. Next. 678, 679, 680, 681, 682. Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u795	Ruslan Alexiyovich, just out of respect for you, five of us take the right, fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u796	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u797	No, I took four of them, but fine, now five.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u798	Thank you for your respect. Thank you, and that's mutual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u799	Roxolano Andriyovno, I understand that you really can't know everything, but did the Ministry of Social Policy provide a basis for these 16 and a half billion? I'm asking this not just because you and I today have been able to find a lot of things in common, to explain some of them are correct and correct, and some of them are completely allological and it's not clear why we're willing to vote a majority without supporting the increase in payments to our defenders with you. However, if there's a figure, it's not 3 bracelets, it's 16 and a half billion dollars, there's both a deputy minister and a minister of finance, I think if there's a possibility, maybe they can explain where it came from and where it's going. It's totally without sarcasm, really, you can't know everything. And either then let's stop, invite the minister of social policy, let her explain where they're planning to set up these funds, or if there's such a possibility and information in the ministers present to give it to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u800	Thank you. Please, Rocsolana Andrienne, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u801	Yes, I can answer that. 16.5 billion dollars, divided by three months, is 5.5 billion dollars per month. If we take into account Mrs. Irina Vereshtsuk’s claim that 300,000 new internally displaced persons have emerged and that we divide the amount by the number of these persons, we get that one person will receive about 18,000 dollars. I don't think it's a space sum that we as deputies should be fighting right now, but you're right. So now there's Deputy Minister of Finance Roman Jermolichev, who's in charge of funding the humanitarian field, and maybe he'll comment on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u802	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next: 683, 684, 685, 686 and hopefully 687. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u803	I'm going to ask my colleague to look, because I don't want to make a mistake either. But if I'm not mistaken, for internally displaced persons, there's no provision for an extra 18,000 dollars, I'm just in favour. But I think it would be worth it for everyone looking at a deputy minister who shows that he probably doesn't. Do I get it right? I think it would be, yes, correct to get an answer from a profiler so as not to put a committee head on the table, objectively. So, if possible, where are 16.5 billion headed, and what is the payment for internally displaced persons?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u804	Please, the Ermolics.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u805	I'll ask you a question, Ruslan Alexiyovich. Whether these are additional amounts for those who were added to this list, the 300,000 that Rocksolana Andriyevn is talking about, or in the payment of payments to displaced persons, were not included in the budget for the year 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u806	Please give me your word. Ermolics, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u807	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich! The need to increase expenditure, resulting from objective factors, is now being met with the assistance of some 2 million internally displaced persons. When the budget was formed last year, the number was much lower, so the cost of the 57 billion that was planned in the budget, which was adopted, is not enough by the end of the year to pay in full for internally displaced persons the corresponding aid. The average payout is a minimum of 2,000 per adult and 3,000 per child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u808	Thank you. 688, 689, 690, 691, 692, Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u809	Thank you, Mr. Deputy. In fact, the answer is absolutely correct: 2,000 for adults, 3,000 for children and people with disabilities, if I'm not mistaken. But not 18, Rocksolana Andriyevna. And I think it would be wise for the committee not only to be attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, but also by the ministries of profile and to report in their fields. Because it's only the Ministry of Finance that looks like it, it's a good thing they know that. And if we didn't know, we'd be closing the meetings right now, and we'd have closed the sessions in general, but still. Then go out and explain why they did not allocate additional funds to internally displaced persons. And then the request to you in preparing the budget for the year 2024 to take into account the errors and gaps that were the undercalculations, in order not to raise that question again in September or October of the following year. So that the money from the start, if you'll excuse me for slang, would be enough for the people who have suffered the most from the war and are now internally displaced persons who need additional support from the state. And in parallel, I'm asking you, along with the Ministry of Finance, to look for additional resources to secure the payments, maybe the 2-3 thousand we're talking about today -- that's not enough. It's better that it's like you said it is about 18,000 dollars. So I'm sure you'll have enough professionalism to look for additional resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u810	Dear colleagues, then amendment 693, 694, 695, 696, 697. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u811	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Roxolano Andriyovno, National Agency for Reconstruction and Development of Ukraine's Infrastructure, 5 billion 970 million. We have, you know, unfortunately, there's a rule working in many directions: seven baby-sitters have no eyes. And so with drones, for example, when we're doing drones and Minicifres, we're doing drones and we're doing drones and we're dealing with the State Department of Defense, and we're doing drones, and we're dealing with the State Department of Defense, and we're doing drones, and we're doing the State Security, and everyone who doesn't deserve it, and the Ministry of Strategic Affairs, and the Ucroboranprom, and everyone, and everyone, everyone. And then when you come to the front and ask questions to boys and girls when you saw an army of drones, well, I don't want to say the answer in the hall, but I didn't hear much positive. I don't know where it's going, where it's going, but it's not flying to our ancestors. I very much hope that this situation will soon change and that we will really be able to do so. But back to the question. Please tell me where these nearly 6 billion dollars are going to be sent for what they need. But if it is possible, more often than not, it is not simply a program for which we counted 6.5 billion dollars and then associated with the Vice President’s Office, the companies are being sprayed in Irpen, Butchi, and Gostomel. Nevertheless, so that we understand, and the colleagues who were present in the hall understood why they would vote or not vote in the adoption of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u812	Please give the committee a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u813	We've already talked about this today, this is a fast-recovery grant from the European Union for the reconstruction of damaged objects as a result of the aggression of the Russian Federation. The corresponding list will be, I think, formed, more specifically, I'm almost sure of it, in the State Agency of Restoration for the submission of local self-government organs, that is, they themselves will say that they need to be restored first, which objects are priority to them. I think there'll be no abuse. And in terms of spending, no one controls spending money better than our donors, especially the European Union, which gives it to Ukraine, especially on a non-returnal basis. I think they're going to shake the whole soul off of this 6 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u814	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 698, Laba does not insist. 699, 700, 701, 702. 703. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u815	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Roxolano Andriyovno, I wish you were right about the soul. But looking at many of our colleagues with you, I'm not even talking about Parliament right now, I'm talking about other institutions, there's no soul there, there's no soul there and there's not going to be. It's empty and it's the only desire to make money. They don't care what they earn, including on money to keep children from sitting in the winter without the light. They like to steal them, counting them as connected solar power companies. Do you understand? It's okay, and they're okay. Millions of bracelets are quietly listed in a country that suffers from Russian fires on critical infrastructure objects, rather than preparing for what we may have in the past winter and this winter. I'm surprised to see you today, to talk about allocating such a large amount to the need to restore infrastructure first, I understand, we're talking about electricity networks. Oh, no? Then, if I may, you'll fix me up for what. But anyway, whatever it is, heat supply, electricity, gas supply, when we're doing this with you, we're trying to allocate October 5th, and it looks kind of weird, because we're not going to have enough money for all of the recovery because it's about billions of dollars, and we're losing time for the current repair. Why, then, did we not make such a proposal by means of a separate bill before, or did it just appear? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u816	If you'll excuse me, Roxolano Andriyevno.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u817	Well, before that money was gone, it's a new grant that came up and we're putting into the government budget. They will be used to rebuild objects that have been destroyed. This does not have to be electrical networks, since we have already allocated money from the liquidation fund on electricity networks. I remind you that every day we do things, every day important social objects are being destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u818	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Corrections from 704th to 712th. This is Ironman, Claupuk and Cabal. They do not insist on their amendments. Next, 713. Mikisha. Are you insisting? Please, Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u819	We talk a lot about how the overall education system will continue to function and what we will do with those forward-looking personnel that will shape actual politics in the future, and first and foremost develop and create innovations that will help us defeat our enemy in the field of combat by creating new drones and new weapons and new military technology. And my point is that we have the Innovation Development Fund and the Ministry of Digital Transformation, optimizing our expenditures, counting our costs, I suggest we leave the funds in this fund and add another 18 million. Because it is through this Innovation Development Fund that we will help those who create these innovations to help us fight the aggressor. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Please vote her.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u820	713 amendment to Mikishi's authorship. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[20:26:57]] For -14 The decision is not taken. 614th, Nekludov. Don't insist. 715th, 716th, 717th, 718th and 719th. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u821	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've already discussed similar regulations on the division of the State Road Fund in order to allocate 50 percent to the security and defence sector. You didn't support this last time, I understand that there's no voting in the room right now either. But I would like to point out once again, Roxolano Andriyevno, I would like to point out again: what you're proposing in the Bill on Changes to the State Budget 10037, where the State Road Fund you're just sending to the general budget boiler, and then when they're going to reshuffle the scandals associated with the inefficient work of some, not all, military administrations, when they're buying the passenger room for hundreds of thousands of dollars, when they're buying the designers, when they're buying, there, the assault stations, when they're doing a lot of other things, which they're going to need to shake the soul, and not just the soul, but a lot of other things that allow them to reproduce in that number, I think that maybe they would have to pay for the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces directly. You want to put 50 percent on the budget, 25 percent on top of our protectors and protectors, and 25 percent on providing them with quality weapons that will shoot, drive and destroy the enemy, not stand by metal scraps, because we couldn't provide it with repairs. So once again, colleagues, I'm going to put these amendments to the vote. Please support them and vote. Two revisions, please, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u822	This is about your 715, 716 revisions, right? If you don't mind, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u823	I mean, you're talking about 10037, we're going to talk about it tomorrow, I think at least 10038. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u824	Dear colleagues, 715 amendments, authorship of Razumkov. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[8:30:13.]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. 716 amendment, authorship of Reasonable and Colleague. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[20:30:34]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment: 720, 721, 722, 723, 724. Dmitry Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u825	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Let's move on to our future: to our children with you, to their education. You're in this budget, the budget changes, you're proposing to allocate an additional 572 million 756 thousand to the Ministry of Education. I'd like to know what the Ministry of Education needs today to request such resources. Or, as Honcharenko said, they lack the prizes, the livelihoods, the nonsustainable, the various. I just want to know what these costs are going to be for. It's a supplement to our teachers, it's creating, restoring schools, it's updating the material and technical base for children. Because in fact our children are our futures, not empty words, I'm sure everyone understands that. And when they go to study in Poland, they go to learn in other states, we lose them, very often they don't come back, very often they stay there. And we need to create conditions that will allow them to get quality education here, to go to eye schools, to have good teachers who didn't go out looking for a better fate abroad. So I'd like to understand what you're putting these more than half a billion dollars on, actually, there's almost 600 million dollars there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u826	Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u827	It's a fifth and sixth grade textbook for subjects from the New Ukrainian School. Because the 5th and 6th classes haven't been there yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u828	Thank you. Please, next amendment 725, Mikisha. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u829	I will speak, and I will not vote. It's 5.9 billion programs, but in this program, it's not just about that in this bill. Let's say that 10038 is the first thing we do is distribute the remainder -- the remainder, first of all, from the general and special fund of local budgets. And it's in these budgets that a lot of money is focused on because the local councils, the local executives, are accumulating these funds from different programs to then exploit their own needs, their needs to redistribute them with the start of a new fiscal year. That's the first one. The other one. Let's see, tomorrow it'll be 10037, which I'm sure most halls will vote on and take away PDF. And since this year, some communities have just left these surpluses to pay for the reverses. And now we're going to take the military's PFC, and then we're going to take another reverse.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u830	Next, please 726, 727, 728, 729, 730. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u831	By 729, Ruslan Alexiyovich. Now, let's vote, right now, you're going to be fine, you're going to support them. But, Roxolano Andriyevno, I basically expected an answer from you about the textbooks. I'd like to remind you, I don't know if you know or not, that last year the Ministry of Education allocated 9 billion dollars to textbooks. Nine billion! And on one date. Do you know where the textbooks are? How can you say that? Nowhere! And we're making money again? Where's the last minister? Where's the Prime Minister? The prime minister was drowning in nine billion dollars. Do you know what the Prime Minister says now? Stole. If I'm lying, let him come out and say he didn't say that. Nine billion, he says, have been stolen. No textbooks. Where did they go? The mice ate. Do you understand? And you say, let's give them a little bit more. So they can steal a little more? Where are the 9 billion that were directed to textbooks last year? If they're not there, if they've really been stolen, you don't have to put them out either. We need to find out where they can be divided and who is responsible. And then sit down and maybe plant someone. As Ruslan Alexiyovich said: "In the framework of the legislation in force." But so far we don't see these 9 billion, please explain where they're going, and why do we still want to make 600 million?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u832	A brief position for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u833	Last year, no money was made available for printing textbooks.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u834	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 730. Peter Alexanderovich, do we skip and move on? 731, 732, 733, 734, 735 are the authors of Iron and Collegiate, and they do not insist. Next, 736, 737, 738, 739 and 740. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u835	No, Ruslan Alexiyovich, 36-39. Roxolano Andriyovno, you can talk to the local authorities. They're the ones who, out of their money, were allocated 9 billion per book, 9 billion. I think the Ministry of Finance can confirm that. Sergey Mihajlovich, would you please tell us that last year, 9 billion were sent from local authority to the textbooks, taken away from such a resource? If we do. All right, let's see. And I think, from that point of view, you might want to figure it out first, maybe I'm wrong, maybe I should go on and make decisions or spend extra money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u836	Thank you. Next, 740, 741, 742, 743, 744th and possibly 745th, Dmitri Alexanderovich, as you wish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u837	No, no, Ruslan Alexiyovich, you're in the middle of six. I count normal, you know. By the age of 45, five and all, out of respect for Roxolana Andrivan. Thank you. Roxolana Andriyevna, please tell me, Authorized for the protection of the state language, I'm not saying right now, there is an important aspect, an irrelevant aspect, but I know what it is for. especially for senior officials, especially for the people's deputies from Western Ukraine, and for many and Eastern, from Central Ukraine, differently, here I cannot say for every national MP, the question of the authorized person is important enough. Please tell me on what basis the Ministry of Finance has decided to reduce the expenditure on the Authorized State Language to, I'll tell you how much you've decided to reduce by, a, 700,000 dollars. What was involved in making such a decision? Just for the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u838	Roxanne Andriyovn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u839	The Ministry of Finance has asked all budget managers to provide information on how much they can save by the end of the year and how much they can recover from their programmes. The Secretariat of the State Language Commissioner, in view of the fact that, unfortunately, they had a understaffed state, agreed to cut their expenses voluntarily by 700,000 dollars. In this budget, no expenditure was taken by anyone in the humanitarian field.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u840	Thank you. 745, 746, 747, 748, 749. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u841	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Sergei Mikhailovich, Roxolano Andriyevno, I mean, when I talk about 9 billion, it's the remains that were taken away from the local authorities and actually there were textbooks. Here I think you support. And the Prime Minister's position, which is now unclear where this money has been shared, and the Minister of Education, who has already gone, must be responsible. Do I get it right? That there were nine billion of them. A little differently, they were called not last year. Of these, three are for textbooks. Right? Oh, no? How much? Where did the money go? Let's call it that. Unfortunately, the answers are still unheard of. I hope you can answer -- either a committee of profile or a minister of finance, if the colleagues won't deny it. Roxolano Andriyovno, would you mind if we asked the Minister of Finance or the Deputy Minister of Finance to point this out? I think that's an important question. If they give a professional answer, it's going to be true, because today there's a lot of questions right up to these 9 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u842	Please, who? Marchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u843	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, there was indeed a balance of 3.2 billion education subsidies that we focused primarily on "New Ukrainian School" and the remainder on paying teachers' salaries. These funds were not directed to textbooks.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u844	Thank you. Let's move on. 750, 751, 752, 753, 754. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u845	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The next question is the Ministry of Youth and Sports. This is a ministry that, thanks to the understatements of the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, does not represent, I mean, our athletes, does not represent Ukraine. It's those guys and girls who bring medals, bring respect to our nation from international competitions, and it's nobody for the National Security Council, because we only have four people behind Daniel's version who can represent the state. Although, frankly, I think that a lot of those guys and girls are doing a lot more for our country, our country than much of our officials, frankly. And I don't quite understand why we're reducing the funding of the Ministry of Sport. We should help to develop this field. Unfortunately, there was a shameful phenomenon when our athletes did not let go, which could have led to the victory of the racists not only on the front, as is happening today, thanks to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, but also because they would have been destroyed in a sporting way in various arenas. It was the minister who prevented and did everything to prevent them from going there. Please say a 700 reduction, excuse me, for now I'm going to look at the Ministry of Sport, 43 million dollars, almost 44 million dollars is whose initiative and what does it do?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u846	Roxanne Andriyevn, briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u847	It's their initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u848	Thank you. Thank you. 755, 756, 757, 758 and 759 repairs. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u849	In all senseless decisions, there are specific enforcers. Who is the initiator of the reduction of expenditure on the Ministry of Sport? Is this the minister of sports? If so, please provide this letter explaining why they offer to cut their costs. And we can, if you don't mind, explain the logic they're using. I'm sure you've read the letter, read the information why they're doing it, the logic in their actions, and why they first asked for it in the 23rd year government budget, and then now they're refusing how effective they are, and they're taking their place in profile, as far as they knew about the 23rd year budget. Because it's a fairly serious amount of 43 million, it's actually more than the budgets of some departments. So I would like you to understand their position and bring it to the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u850	Please give the committee a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u851	I can answer a lot of questions, of course, but I can't answer the question of how much Minmoleport is understood in budgetary matters and budgeting, honestly. I don't know, maybe not much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u852	Dear colleagues, 760 amendments, 761, 762, 764, 765. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u853	Even.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u854	Even 766, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u855	Ruslan Alexiovich, you missed 763 Mikishi.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u856	Yeah, she's Mikishi.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u857	Give me another 766, and then we'll give it to Dmitri Sergiyovich, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u858	Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u859	First, give me time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u860	Please give me two minutes first.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u861	Thank you. Rocsolana Andriyevna, I am truly proud of your knowledge in many areas. Really. I don't want you to give your assessment right now, although perhaps it would be worth it if you were to have an inefficient budgeting in separate ministries. I asked the other one. You've clearly seen the letter from the Ministry. You know, I'm sure you've read it and you understand what programs they're taking out of this 44 million. So that's why I'm asking you to point out why it's happening, what they want to shorten, what programs they're cleaning up funding for, what's the logic from their position, they're 100 percent bringing it to you, to the members of the profiling committee when they introduced the Cabinet. Did it make any sense? For the first time, I see the ministries giving up their resources. So no longer in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, but they sent these funds to the BEB, for example. I don't understand the position of the Ministry of Sport, which takes 44 million dollars, which are allocated to them in the State Budget for 2023, and lists them, asks them to count the Bureau of Economic Security. It's kind of silly. That's why I'm asking you to explain this nonsense.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u862	However, it is more logical to ask the minister of sport when possible. Okay. Roxolano Andriyovno, if you want to, answer. I don't think that, you know, Rocksolana Andriyevn will be responsible for everyone and all the initiatives that exist in the government. Please, Roxolano Andriyevno, if you have something, answer me, but no, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u863	But I always have something to say. See, their overall position is being reduced or reduced by the end of the year, the number of measures they finance and financially support. In particular, in the public policy agenda on youth issues and support for young people under the "Development of Sport among Persons with Disabilities" programme, development of physical culture and really under the programme "Preparation of National Assemblys in International Competitions and particularly Olympic Games." Well, to be honest, we didn't go so far into the question of whether the Ministry of Youth and Sports would really have no action or whether it was lying to us. We have a presumption of trust in ministers that we have appointed as national deputies in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u864	Thank you. 763, Mikisha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u865	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 763, 767 and 769, give me two minutes without a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u866	Please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u867	See, as to how the congregations actually took place, these are all of these letters. Everyone had a command to optimize and find the necessary remains and send them to a general boiler to be used where necessary, and it was the Ministry of Finance that was redirected. Same story, just to give you an example. The account room, it said, 23 million, please find the funds, they've been optimized, 23 million have been sent. Well, they think it's a good idea to help the army. And then they find out that, apart from the fact that they've done the most they can, there's some programs and some funding for their activity, it turns out that there's 315 million on Baby, and you can't get a letter back. And that's why it turns out that everyone who sends a letter then, of course, when I'm discussing at a committee meeting I've been discussing with Denis Valeriovich Ulutin, the first deputy minister, of course, he's suggesting that we get a letter, which we're going to say against or not. Although, you know, it's quite a surprise to me when those bodies that are primarily designed to monitor the efficiency of using the funds that both the Court of Auditors and many others, and the anti-corruption bodies that should be monitored, which, along with the Armed Forces, the army should be channelled, this is not happening. There is an increase in other organs, other public institutions, which are certain questions to them, to their work in general, and we are also giving them additional funds, such as Kabminu 215 million. Well, very big questions. Even though we're offering the USSR plus 11 billion, GUR is 2.5 billion and anti-corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u868	Thank you. 768, Batenko. Do Not Urge 770, Batenko. Don't insist. 771, Batenko. Don't insist. 772, 773, 774, 775, 776, Reasonable. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u869	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I'll ask you a question, I understand it's rhetorical, and we'll continue to work it out, but still. Please tell me, was there an article 32 in the preparation of the budget for 2023 that eliminated the remainder of the local subsidy at the time of 9 billion, and they were to go to NUSH (New Ukrainian School) and go to the printing of textbooks? Sergei Mikhailovich, if you could answer that question, because it wasn't 3.2, it was 9, if I'm right. So anyway, I think I'm more or less right, if you don't, correct me and then we'll deal with these articles, this is 32 articles was, or substitutes. It's like we're on a committee at Herus, a friendly conversation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u870	Sergei Mikhailovich, there is a possibility, an answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u871	Dmitri Alexanderovich, look, we've got some leftovers at the end of the year. What you're saying is, really, right, over the course of the year, there were these leftovers and they were discussed, and it was the idea to target them for certain purposes, maybe even those you said. But in the end, the remainder is 3.2 billion dollars, and they focus primarily on the New Ukrainian School, they're going to be, they're going to be the government's decision, and they're going to pay off the teachers' wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u872	Thank you. 777, 778, 779, 780, 781. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u873	Thank you. Thank you, Sergey Mikhailovich, for your position. There's no Roxolana Andrienne? I'm sorry. Let's move on. Please tell me we're talking a lot about fighting corruption. We recently voted for the return of declarations. And everyone was happy, but for some reason, the President hasn't signed. And I don't see any colleagues here in the hall getting really upset about it. Hopefully, he'll sign the law soon, and we'll declare again, as it was intended for a full-scale invasion. But I have a question. What is the use of the Ukrainian Cabinet, which is used by the profile committee when it takes 132 million dollars from the National Anti-Corruption Agency? In fact, they, you or, if the Council votes, we, more faithfully, you, because we will not vote precisely for this, because it will reduce the ability of such an institution, an important institution that controls our international partners as NAMK. Tell me, please, you're taking 10 percent away from them, in parallel with our declarations, plus the gross that they get after two years of simple, they're still doing sanctions. Does that make sense? Or it's the right approach, based on what you're taking here, and you're giving a repressive tool like a baby. The baby that destroys the Ukrainian business. I'd like to hear the position of honourable representative of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u874	If you don't mind. If possible, the amendments are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u875	My colleagues, once again, I'm simply saying that the committee's decision, these amendments are rejected, please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u876	Thank you. Next 782. Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u877	Thank you, Mr. Head. Actually, there's a more editorial revision here, so let's skip it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u878	Thank you. Please, Big Boy 783.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u879	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u880	Thank you. 784. Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u881	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. See why you can't vote for this law. I'll keep going. First of all, I quote the findings of the scientific and expert administration of our capital: the project foresees a reduction in the expenditure of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court to finance the budget programme "The Enforcement of Justice by the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court" of 1 billion 590 million, if I'm not mistaken. At the same time, the draft document does not contain any information on compliance with the requirements of part three of article 23 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, according to which proposals for the reduction of budgetary requirements for the maintenance of courts, other organs and institutions of the justice system are to be accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the Supreme Council of Justice. Now, I have a very simple question, listen, we understand that it was tickling very quickly, but why do it, why do it with such mistakes when then this budget committee just gives a pass to those who can raise these questions and recognize this law, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u882	Thank you. 784 amendments, rejected by the committee. I'll bet you a vote. By Ariev, Gerasimov and Chigoza Please, I'll bet you a vote. [[20:57:40]] Z-11. The factions. The decision is not taken. Next 785, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u883	Alexei Hotcharenko. Guys, it's a very important readjustment. I'll explain, it's important to everyone. This is about adding to the budget program the penalties of the State Criminal Enforcement Service. Our penitentiary system, you know, it's a very serious story. Because, first of all, I would, by the way, be in the position of a fellow "minister of the people" not so lightly treated as they say, don't deny it. So it would always be desirable to spend money, because already a part of the "Serial of the People" colleagues are joining us with the S.E.S.O., so who knows what's going to happen next. So I would suggest that we pay direct attention. And they're also people, they're Ukrainian citizens who don't get payments, they're even penitentiary students, they're also having serious problems, so we have to spend money here, because it's really important, and it's also our citizens, including who are being punished. And instead of spending money on movies or drums, it's better to give it to people who really need it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u884	785 repairs to the potter. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[20:59:12]] For-9 The decision is not taken. The factions. Next 786. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u885	Friends, the next amendment, it's basically on the same subject. I want to tell you that this is really important. Why? Well, we've all seen a project by a colleague from "The Servant of the People," who suggested that the prisoners rotate pedals, that he has, well, such a creative idea to fix the energy situation in Ukraine -- that the prisoners spin pedals. So far, well, in principle, I, you know, have even made a joke that Nestor Shufrich won the 2030 Tour de Franz. Everyone asks him, "How?" He says, well, that's it. And it's not just Nestor Schuffritch, it could be other colleagues. So I think we should definitely do this instead of turning the pedals that produce the dynamite of the prisoners, we should actually do the real work here, and we should make decisions about providing this important system and the institution that is in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u886	786 The amendment of Gerasimov, Pauline, was rejected by the Committee. Please vote. [[21:00:40]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 787. There is no insistence on non-clergy. Next. 788th, 789th, 790th, 791th, 792nd. Dmitry Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u887	Dear colleagues, these corrections aren't much, but they say that maybe enough shows? Maybe we have too many "the gays"? Who doesn't know, it's nothing offensive, it's the kind of resource we have, you know? Which we're spending 60 million dollars on. And he's looking at 65,000. Is it enough to spend $250,000 on a series of culinary shows? Could it be enough to pay for an I.V., for any other shit and garbage that we're unfortunately trying to put back into the budget? And here's 1.2 billion dollars in television production. And so maybe we'll stop with the programs a little bit and we'll watch with you these 1.2 billion, how our boys and girls are going to destroy Russian tanks with drones. Maybe? I think it's a good story. But you want to watch the show. So you ask people what boys and girls on the front, what do they need: guns, drones or TV shows? Serials don't kill racists. If you don’t know, you should talk to them. You put 1.2 billion into the military budget again to provide a variety of comedy shows with money. So let's at least have a little conscience in this room. I'm asking you, fellows, let's give this money to the army, and you don't have to cover up that it's grants and loans.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u888	Please, 793th, 794th, 795th, 796th, 797th. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u889	No, let's put it to the vote first, Ruslan Alexiyovich. I want to see who the show is much more important to. I told you we'd vote them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u890	Well, you didn't say. All right, let's go back then. Two fixes, right? Let's do 788th, 789th. Is it gonna be okay? I'm putting 788 on the vote. Please vote. [[21:03:45]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. I'll bet 789. Let's see the factions. I'm putting 789 amendments to the vote. She's been rejected by the committee. The authorship of Reasonable and Colleague. Please vote. [[21:04:14]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Then it's 793, 794th, 795th, 796th, 797th. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u891	Thank you. Roxolana Andriyevna, 30 million additional funding for the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine. What are some of the goals that these funds are intended to meet again? What's the point? Why was this not included in the budget when it was accepted for 2023? And why do we have to vote for it now? They also have treasury in the front lines? Or they began to be responsible for drones as well as many other institutions, or they may already be responsible for underwater drones. They either started helping the Ministry of Reintegration or something. I just want to understand why we're giving them 30 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u892	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u893	The Ministry of Environmental Protection is the chief authority under which the director is: the subordinate agency of the Ukrainian State Agency for the Management of the Aliens Zone. 30.5 billion dollars are allocated in addition to the maintenance of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and the Protection facility in a safe state.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u894	Thank you. Dear colleagues, further from 798 to 802 -- the repairs of Iron, Claw and Tsabbala -- they've removed their repairs. The next amendment is 803. Please, Friz.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u895	Okay, 803 revisions, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u896	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u897	Thank you, Mr. Head. Look, what exactly is our identity, yes, if we're conscious and if we're statesmen? It's our language, it's our culture, it's our historical heritage. You know, when they're rejecting a bill that offers to save 23,000 from the historical and cultural heritage program, I have a question: we have Minfin, who grows this budget, he's, as in that proverb, you know, a relative like a fucking goat uncle. So I have another huge question: are we really going to take care of social guidance and budget programs about our culture, about our language, or are we going to refer to Mincult's money exclusively for the non-use that's being circulated for the self-satisfaction of the authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u898	Dear colleagues, 803 by the authorship of Fedina and Friz, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[21:07:27]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 804. Please, Big Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u899	Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u900	Thank you. Please, 805 Gerasimov. Next, right? Gerasimov. 805, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u901	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. See, I've read a lot of analysts about 10037 and 10038, and almost all of them have concluded that the removal of military PDF will weaken communities, deprive them of the ability to help the Defense Forces, and at the same time deprive them of the ability to provide quality services to residents. I can talk a lot about whether or not the PDF has increased at the expense of the military. No, it's not. After 24, people went to serve, but they also paid for the VAT. And going back to the history of addressing local communities that said that VAT cannot be deleted. You know, there are a lot of communities in the Chortkow region: Borsztowska, Buchanska, Gustinska, Zalesticeticka, Kopicinecka, Melnice-Podilska -- they have asked for the VATO not to be taken from them. And it's going to be very interesting how Govko Vladimir Leonidovich is going to vote for this, which was just elected to the Chortkow district of Ternopil district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u902	Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. 806th. Goncharenko. Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u903	Dear colleagues, the following important amendment, but I want to support my colleague, Mr. Arthur Gerasimov, who has just told and applied for an amendment, and I'm talking about that we need to preserve decentralization. We understand that you want to take all the money up because it's not enough, it's not enough. Little on the queue of luxury cars, for houses, for everything little, little, little. And that's why we have to get to the community. But if everything is taken into communities, where will they be and how will people live? And that's why we have to stop. We need to stop. We see Tishchenka and his co-centres, who can't stop, the others. And that's where we need to stop on the question of the murder of decentralization. We're going to do everything we can to stop you and so you can't take all the money from the Army's military personnel upstairs, downtown, in Kiev to share it with yourself, as you're comfortable with and as you like, and we already see how you do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u904	Amendment 806, rejected by the committee. The authorships of Goncharenko. Please vote. [[21:10:19]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Please, 807th, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u905	Edit No. 807, Alexei Hotcharenko. Friends, I want to go on with this, because this is very important. Because if we destroy our local self-government, if we take everything out of local self-government, it won't be able to provide just such, you know, basic services. Now, I'm talking to you right now, just now, we're being seen on the air, this is the first historical tektokir from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and people are asking why in the city of Delhi, where, by the way, the city head, the performing duties, the "Slut" of the people, has made the stadium pay. Just now a man was involved, says why did Mr. Albanian make the pay stadium? And this local self-governance has something else. When you take everything away, will you tell the local government to spin the pedals like prisoners so that the light itself will be there? We've already figured out your recipes, but maybe you'll get something to eat.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u906	I am betting on the vote number 807 of the national deputies Gerasimov, Pavelka and Hotcharenko. The committee's been rejected. Please vote. That's what I'm talking about. [[21:11:54]] For -8 The decision is not taken. In fact, I would like to remind you that we, the Supreme Council, have made a decision not to report the time and place of the meeting, the more we broadcast it directly. But since there is no responsibility for failing to comply with the decisions of the Supreme Council, it would be appropriate if anything could be done, I take it. Please, Mikisha Dmitri, where are you. Please 808 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u907	Yes, thank you. Head of the Department of Defense Intelligence. That's what our amendment is about, which says that all the savings that we've been offering on other programs, in other terms, they accumulate and we're adding GUR 2.4 (with a coma) billion dollars, almost 2.5 billion dollars. Convinced that none of the colleagues, but those who remain in the room, have any question about this structure, which is infectingly carrying out the tasks of fighting in the rear of the enemy, on the front, in the back of the country everywhere. And that's what it's meant to do, is to give such an effective military structure an additional 2.5 billion to carry out their special duties. You can all see what's going on in the social networks that they're doing with these wonderful excessive operations. So, colleagues, back up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u908	I'm betting on the vote of Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich 88, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[21:13:45]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. By factions, please show me. Dmitri Alexanderovich, 809, 810, 811, 12, 13, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u909	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. You know, I'd say whoever was in this room wasn't taking pictures with Budanov, but there were so few national deputies left, that they were probably all photographing, well, who was there to see him. And you wouldn't want to take pictures of GUR, but you would help this class structure. Unlike many, she did not hide on the 24th of the 23rd without being afraid to say that there would be a full-scale invasion when everyone else buried their tongues and quietly told them that there would be no war. The only one who spoke about this was Budanov, the only one who was ready for war, as it was found in the full range, were ravens. We're really proposing this bill to allocate 2.5 billion dollars. Our team suggests that our "Smart Politics" team propose to increase these costs, increase by 2.4 almost twice. We've shown where to get this money, we've made concrete proposals, not from the ceiling, not from the ceiling, not from the regulations that are more specific, that there should be more cotton to burn the enemy's compositions, so that their planes don't fly, so there's no way to even think about how to continue to attack Ukraine. So let's not say words, but let's do something to help the GUR, let's give them an extra resource that will provide and increase their military ability to expose it to the full extent that they can destroy the enemy. I'm really, really sorry that there are no people in the room today, because I'm sure we would vote for that, but we'll see the result on the board. Please put two.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u910	Please put to the vote number 809 of the national deputies of Mokan, Mikishi, Razumkova. She's been rejected by the committee. Vote, 809, please. [[21:16:32]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. And let's do 810, please put the national deputies of Petrunjak, Mikishi, Saladuhi and colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[21:16:58]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. Next, 814, 815 Iron. Don't insist. 816 Nekludov. Don't insist. 17. 818. Goncharenko or Gerasimov? Who? Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u911	Alexei Hotcharenko. It's very important, she's talking about money, she's talking about money for the Directorate General of Intelligence. Friends, I don't know, I think it's obvious to every person that the support of the military is obvious, and the Chief Intelligence Directorate is an extremely important institution, an organ, an organ that has to fight and there is a body that serves our heroes, and we understand that unfortunately there are losses, and we have to support these people, not spend money on drums, TV shows and everything, but to support these people directly who are defending our nation with guns. And yet I've been asked to report, they say, Mrs. Snow White says there is no, says the Supreme Council doesn't know about the violent corruption that has covered the whole country. That's what Mrs. Snow White says, it's on, and she wants you to hear it, and I had to hand it over to you directly from the people, because you've had them for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u912	I think in the Supreme Council they know about violent corruption, so they've supported the discovery of declarations, and part of the hall has even opened them publicly. Please put to the vote number 818 of the national deputies Gerasimov, Pavlovka, Pottery. The committee's dismissed. I ask you to vote. [[21:18:53]] For-12. The decision is not taken. Please. And then we have 819 revisions. Please, Honcharenko Alexiyyovich. Are you sure you're in the loop?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u913	Exactly. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u914	Because there are different networks there.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u915	I don't know, you know, a lot of people, I don't know a lot of them, I don't know a lot of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u916	Great. I mean, don't let the pro-Russian be all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u917	No, no, God forbid. There's a lot of our military personnel out there, they're, by the way, giving you greetings and greetings, saying they don't understand where the national MPs are. Now, I haven't found anyone who can understand how that is, so the military can't take and leave the position, can't, it's called the HlV. Yeah, and we've got the whole Supreme Council of S.H.I.E.L.D. We have the Supreme Council of the SZH, left a part of it on our own. Well, only they don't get punished for it, and that's what they do. Edit GUR again. Stop spending money on stupid things, including asphalt, gravel, drums, and TV shows. GURU money. U.S.S.A. money. The Nazi guard's money. The RADIO money. Course-to-course.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u918	Please bet on the vote number 819, People's MP Hotcharyenka. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[21:20:32]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u919	Show the factions, please. Next 820.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u920	One day these dreams will come true, Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u921	Please, 820. Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u922	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. See, the bill relates to the allocation of additional money to the General Intelligence Directorate. And we fully support that. And I'd like to do it again to remind you that if there was money in this bill exclusively for security and defence, I think we would have finished this story a long time ago, voted, and gone to prepare for the next day, for the next bill. But unfortunately, it's not just that. And I want to remind you once again that one of the key sources is the PDF, which is going to be taken into local budgets, into local communities. And you know, one of the communities that asked them not to take away the PDF is the Lower Town Council. Well, of course, the town of Nizhin Chernigiv district. It will be very interesting to see how Valeriy Alexiyovich, who had just been elected to the city of Nizhina, will vote for this. How will he vote? Will he take the money from his community? Let's see tomorrow. Keep an eye on it. Thank you. And please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u923	820 Amendment of Ariev, Gerasimov, Chigoza Declined by the committee. Please vote. [[21:22:17]] For-7. The decision is not taken. 821, Velitchovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u924	Fellow dignitaries, the Chief Intelligence Directorate, is precisely the kind of institution that needs our special attention and needs to be funded. After all, these are extremely effective units that destroy the Russian, which help rid the Ukrainian land of this eastern wasteland. So let's support them not only with words, not only with slogans, but also with concrete funds and vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u925	The amendment of 821 of Bondar and Veliczovich's authorship was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[21:23:18]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 822. Please, Friz.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u926	Thank you, Mr. Head. So European Solidarity proposes to increase funding for the Directorate-General for Intelligence, in particular the direct budget programme "Intelligence in Defence". And I'm really starting to think that most people have come up with this sort of new phenomenon of the primacy of the legislative initiative. That is, if we increase funding for GUR, only by our own free will and God forbid that this initiative is somehow distributed or supported by other factions. So I'm asking you to put this bill to a vote and I think that all the European Solidarity changes have been rejected and even partially disregarded those that have meaning are a disgrace to this Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u927	822 amendments to the authorship of Fedina and Friz were rejected by the committee, please vote. [[21:24:36]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Next amendments 823, 824, 825, 826, 827. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u928	Roxolana Andriyevna, my dear colleagues, tell me, please, there is no Tucker anymore, there is not going to be his marathon soon, but there are Ingles, there are other very interesting projects in the paws, projects that no one is looking at, but on which huge costs are being paid. Similarly, unfortunately, the "Race" channel, which today does not perform the functions that were placed on it when it was created, although there was a large number of professionals working there and now there. And please tell me, the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine is claiming to increase their funding by 18.5 million. And this is going to be another show or we're going to get another full-scale season of some culinary show, or are we going to watch Picalova and Koshovo again across all the channels, they just have to add a little bit more resources? What's the cost of this $18.5 million? Is there nowhere else to go? Perhaps it is better to count the needs of the same displaced persons we spoke of today, temporarily displaced persons, to rebuild the buildings that were affected after the racist invasion, to pay the wounded. On the injured, yeah, these aren't military issues that you can't spend money on abroad, right? Sure. Just like so many other things that are much more high-priority today for every normal Ukrainian than the series and any other junk that the ministry will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u929	Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna, respond and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u930	This is 18.4 million that are needed to maintain the Kiev laurel, at least this part that has gone back to state ownership. I think all our voters support this state step and the commitments that the Ministry of Culture is making in keeping this important monument to architecture.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u931	Thank you. 828th, Nekludov. Don't insist. He's already said that. Next. 829th, 830th, 831th, 832rd, 833rd. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u932	Rocksolana Andriyovna, no one really denies that we need to preserve Lavra as a historical monument to our history as a museum, a hundred percent. But I would like to remind you that we have already saved a huge amount of money there. Thanks to our fellow journalists, we stopped making such a wonderful show called Ingletz. Maybe we should close up a cool resource for our foreign friends like The Gates. Maybe it's better to fill the information space, show not the clowns there, show not some geese or something, but show our heroes. To show those who defend not only Ukraine, those who approach not only the victory of Ukraine but also the victory of the entire civilized world. Those who defend Europe from the racist invasion are those who give their lives every day. Instead of transforming national information policy into a clown, a circus, and a farce, making it really a state, and the main statesmen in our country are the military. It is they who deserve to be shown on all marathons, not on the President's Office, all the counselors who announce on the day that they're cool, how they're supposed to win, and they're dissecting at clubs in the evening. This is the information policy that it should be, not what it is today. I hope we can fix this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u933	834th, 835th, 836th, by Iron. Don't insist. They've already passed. 837. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u934	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, for continuing the subject of our insistence on this bill of change and the cost of accumulation they have focused primarily on the U.S.S.S.A. and other military units. The other one. GUR. And thirdly, for all anti-corruption units, it's the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. And in this case, this is an amendment that says that it's an extra cost to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for their activities. And it's not about paying any detectives or agents to give extra money, it's about the activity that we understand, it's just going to spread and expand in order to conduct certain investigations and certain criminal criminal cases with respect to some officials in the first place. So this right here is designed to support the NAB in their fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u935	Are you insisting? Please, I'm putting 837 Mikashi to the vote she's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[21:31:21]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. 838th, 839th, 840th, 841th, 842nd. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u936	Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich. Dear colleagues, I have unfortunately not heard the committee's position on why we are still spending additional resources. Once again, I want everyone to hear, we need to provide Kyevo-Pecher Lavra with the money so she doesn't go down. But what I'm asking is, the cost saved is from such very important and important aspects as the Ingletz series, where did they go? Whether they've all been reassigned, not to English, but to English-2, to "Serve of the People," to something else. There's money, we've already found it. Gorbunov refused, he said, "All right, I won't take yours as his, "Ingles," because then I'm going to have to answer for it. Let's do something about that money. We'll pay for the support of the Kiev-Pecher Lavra. Superproposal, correct, correct, logical, smart. But don't take any more money from the budget and send it back. And they stayed at the Ministry? Are they sitting there watching them or putting them in their pockets? Are they taking down another KWN? So let us still be logical about these aspects. Do you agree with me, Roxolano Andriyevno? Yes. See? So can we vote and take this down, Roxolano Andriyevno?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u937	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Then 843rd, 844th, 845th, 846th, 847th, and your repairs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u938	Roxolano Andriyovno, there was something wrong with the logic of this bill. I don't think it's just me, because at the beginning of the review and the department of profile was talking about how to support the Ministry of Digital Transformation, how many of them are doing, how they're buying drones, how the drone army is helping our defenders who haven't seen it, most of the time they haven't seen it. But here I am looking at the bill that came into the walls of the Supreme Council today. That may be logical, but there is some strange logic in the majority, because the baby is financed by millions, hundreds of millions, such as drones, based on your logic, and decided not to finance. What are we talking about now? We have another position. The Ministry of Digital Transformation of Ukraine is minus 18 million, 18 and a half million. Would you please tell me we don't need this department anymore? Don't they do drones there anymore? Have we bought all the drones yet? Is there anyone doing drones? Because we don't have anywhere to go today, in any article, we all have drones. We're going to have a cleaning lady with drones and a grandmother who sells seeds on the market, and she's going to be a big drone expert, although sometimes she seems to be a bigger expert than the ones who do them today. So I'd like to hear your position on why at the Ministry of Digital Transformation we're taking 18.5 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u939	Briefly, please, Rocksolana Andriyevne.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u940	The Ministry of Digital Transformation does not buy or expand the production of drones personally. They have a fund manager under them, a state-owned special liaison agency running the Army of drones. And the Ministry of Digital Transformation and Minister Fedorov decided to save money for the state budget right on the salaries of the Ministry's apparatus. I think it's commendable, and all ministers should follow suit.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u941	Thank you. Please 848 amendments, Mikisha Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u942	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 848th, 855th, I'll say it and we won't bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u943	All right, come on, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u944	Thank you. Look, colleagues, I'm actually going to do it again, and this is a bill -- this is about, first of all, what remains at the end of this year, this is the first one to be used in the next. And that's where these leftovers are going, that's what they're talking about. And most importantly, where are these leftovers coming from? These are primarily local budgets, their general and special funds. In these very remnants, there's a lot of economics that local councils, their executives have been working on, they've accumulated to use on other programs that they can't use this year, unfortunately. And they're going to be used in the next one, they're counting on them to use it as an assignment. For example, for the calculated reverse that will come from the military PDF this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u945	Thank you. Please move on to 849 Nekludov. Don't insist. Next: 850th, 851th, 852nd, 853rd, 854th. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u946	Roxolano Andriyovno, you probably gave the example of the Ministry of Digital Transformation, which decided to save on the salaries of officials, minus 18 million. And we suggest you follow your logic, support it, and reduce the financing of wages in the BEB, in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Because we have perhaps adequate ministries, such as digital transformation, that make sense to reduce the cost of their salaries by minus 18 million, and there are inadequacies that ask 214 million for their existence, like the Cabinet Secretariat, yes, or how the BBC does it. Two hundred, how much is it? Two hundred and forty you have laid or how many million dollars? Well, that's right, isn't it? So then let's take it from everyone, follow the logic of the Ministry of Digital Transformation, they did it perfectly right, they did it wisely, and the "Smart Policy" team and I are close to that approach. But I would like other ministries to follow that logic. Then let's review this bill, send it out for a second read, give it a little bit more rights, and quickly vote it out. It will be effective, quality, ensuring the interests of the Ukrainian Army, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, defence forces, GURs, and so on. And we can say that this is a consolidated, adequate position of parliament, not an inadequate position of individual ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u947	Thank you. Next, please 856, Batenko. Don't insist. 857th, 858th, 859th, 860th, 861th, 862th, 863rd, 864th, 865th, 866th, 867th, 868th, 869th. It's in the Ironworks, the Chapel and the Cabal. Don't insist. Next. 871, Iron Man. Don't insist. 872, 873, 874, 875th, 876th, 877th, 878th, 879th, this is Iron. Don't insist. 880s, Batenko. Don't insist. 881, Mikisha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u948	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. It's just that the baby amendment, the 315 million I think, and we, along with "Smart Politics," think that these funds have to be taken to the baby, which is an inefficient law enforcement body that doesn't perform its functions, that even in many Nardeps there is the idea of eliminating it in general. Maybe it's premature and sharp, but in any case I think that for this year 315 million babies are too much and they need to be taken away, rerouted, including to the Department of Defense Intelligence. It's the same body that showed its effectiveness to a full-scale invasion, and during a full-scale invasion, there's no question at all that this body needs to be added to, this military body needs to add more money to do their operations. Taking 315 million away from the baby would be exactly what it would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u949	Please, we have 882th, 883rd, 884th, 885th, 886th. Dmitry Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u950	Ruslan Alexiyovich, give me three minutes instead of these lines, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u951	Please give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u952	Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, we've just come to those lines that we've talked about today. This is the truth of the abuse of Ukrainians, of Ukrainian businesses -- the proposed BEB rule was 315 million dollars. Fortunately, by the second reading, this amount was reduced by 90 million, if I'm not mistaken, but it's more than 200 million dollars -- 225 million dollars. You see, lack of logic and conscience, well, I don't know when we're taking the last of the businessmen, small, medium-sized paws -- they're the whole Ukrainian business, and we're entering checks, we're returning taxes, no matter what the majority of the people in this room promised that it wouldn't happen. That's what the president promised. I'm really sorry that Vladimir Zelensky signed the shameful bill 8401, which returned taxes at the pre-war level. At best, 4.7 billion will receive Ukraine's budget. Fellows, you're very good at bringing Roxolani Andri's flowers, but it would be better for you to sit in the hall and work instead of running around. And Roxolani Andriyovni is really going to have to cheer at the end of the session because she's a great man and she's had this session. That's true. But back to the right. You're destroying the Ukrainian business, which, in your own words, protects the state at the level of the Armed Forces, because it's the Ukrainian business that finances the Ukrainian army. It's the fops, it's the medium and small business that does it. I would like everyone to remember that. But instead of allocating 300 million aid to business, you're allocating 225 million dollars to babysit. And in fact, they're going to get 800 million a year. And they returned last year they're 32, if I'm not mistaken. Explain to me this lack of logic. Explain that to me. Completely inadequate approaches to government position and politics. Explain to me how you will explain this to the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u953	Rocksolana Andriyevna, if there's anything to answer, please don't-- let's move on. Thank you. Let's move on then. Dear colleagues, 887, Batenko. Don't insist. Oh, I'm sorry, all five of them? All five of them. All right, one second, I'll find out where we started. So 882th, 883rd, 884th, 885th, 886th. It's all right, isn't it? 882 revisions. Please vote. She's been rejected by the committee. 882nd Authorship of Reasonable and Colleague. [[21:45:51]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 883rd Authorship of Reasonable and Colleague. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[21:46:14]] For-12. The decision is not taken. 884th Authorship of Reasonable and Colleague. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[21:46:33]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. 885th Authorship of Reasonable and Colleague. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[21:46:55]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. 886th, rejected by the committee. The authorship of Reasonable and Colleague. Please vote. [[21:47:15.]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next, 887 Batenka. Don't insist. 888, the Cabal and the colleagues. Don't insist. 889th, please, Gerasimov. Is he insisting? Hot plate, please. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u954	Alexei Hotcharenko. It's okay. It's My job is to take the money out of the baby. What's a baby? The Bureau of Economic Security. I don't understand why we want to add money to these people at a time like this. What they're doing is good, I don't know, except they're a nightmare business. I understand that they're very useful here for some of the fellow servants, because with their help, they can recruit someone, but that's not exactly what the government budget is supposed to pay for. And that's why we have to take the money out of the Economic Security Bureau, because it doesn't defend our country, it doesn't set it free, it gives it to the military. To return the thirty to everyone, as we passed the law six months ago and on April 10th we voted it, and you blocked it shamefully. Not signed by either speaker or president, the law has not entered into force. Giving money is limited to the eligible, after injury to outside the state, and to all out-of-towners. Stop it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u955	Please, 890s, Hotcharyenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u956	890 law that speaks. The last amendment was 889, and now I'm announcing 890, and it's the same thing about the baby, and I'm telling you who to pay for that money. Because we've got the bullying, just now involving the girl, says the striker boy gets 400 bucks so far. Miserable or 400 bucks. What the hell is that? The outsiders get 700 or 800 dollars a month, and we're saying let's get the baby here 300 million? Let's get this baby, take this baby and give it to those who are really fighting, to those who really defend our state, to those who deserve it. Because people tell us, "No vacations, no money. They promised to give us anything on the roof -- they didn't give us anything. The U.B.D. itself didn't. They didn't give anything!".. But as a baby, they gave it to me right away! That's it, that's it!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u957	Thank you. Please, 891st, Grand Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u958	Dear colleagues, when mentioning the last suspicions of one of the oligarchs, must say that there was another service. You're confused. There was the Security Service and others -- NABA. But I think that if we're talking about the structure that's being added most in percent terms, this year alone, they're increasing the budget by more than 60 percent -- that's kind of weird. I'd like to see their result. That's why we think it's better to give to the military the ones on the fore, the ones who fight, the ones who risk their lives every day: Chief Intelligence, the military, the conscripts they refused to help. So we think we need to take the 200 million out of the baby and pass it on to other articles just for the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u959	Thank you. Please, 892nd, Friz.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u960	Thank you, Mr. Head. Yeah, we're going back to the baby. Why does "European Solidarity" need to be removed from an inefficient baby of 200 million? Because we think it's more important to direct this money to Nazgardia, DPSU, to retirement, to social security, to education, to scholarships. Because it turns out that the fines we made, which is 50 million on Nazgardia -- they're gone, 24 million on the DSS -- are gone, 4 million on the pension, and the Pension Fund is gone, 21 million on the social worker -- is gone, 12 million on the education -- is gone, too, 8 million on the scholarships for graduate students and undergraduate students is gone. And there's 200 million on the baby. So I have a question for you: What state are you forming here? Repressive or trying to preserve the remnants of democracy?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u961	Thank you. Please, 893, Gerasimov. Come on, I've already given Gerasimov my word, then I'll give you the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u962	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. See, as far as the baby is concerned, this is a very vivid example of what we said was not about the security and defence sectors. Let's be honest. Not about the sector. They're wasting business, and they're getting extra money. Why, they will not be able to conquer them! Because if you read the analysis of how they can theoretically use this money, the big question is that it's some very strange operation. So we are definitely against it. And what did he mean? What is the main source of this PDF. And you know that, for example, in the Cherkas region, they voted not to take the VAT, several times, including the Cherkas City Council. And I'm very curious about how Arsenyuk Olegyovich of Cherkas will vote for this, elected Nagorniak Sergey Volodymyrovich, elected in this area, and Irina Heratchenko, who is also a ecclesiastical. I wonder how it's going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u963	Thank you. In a good context, Irina Volodymyrna was mentioned. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, Irina Volodymyrna, I wonder how you're going to vote? Turn on Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u964	Thank you. You know, I'm very proud of Screaming. A small area that has received 117 thousand displaced persons. And it's obvious that for Cherkaszczina as well as for other regions today, it's going to take the PDF's funds, primarily to support the military units, which, in front of the front, including the Cherkasian armaments, were near the Dangerous, fought very hard, and still remain, and those who are in captivity, their families need to be supported. And of course, we need the money for both the bomb shelters and stuff. I want to say that in any country and in any Parliament, the budget is long considered -- it's a norm, it's not a feat, it's a norm when budgets are considered, it's an amendment, it's a word for word. Because it's not about our money with you, it's about taxpayers' money. So all these flowers there, applause, that's a little inappropriate, my friends. And what I'm saying is, right now, it would be appropriate to prepare all these reviews and invite them to the committee in 10 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u965	Thank you. Please, from the Goncharenko procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u966	Dear colleagues, I'll be honest with you, they're really complaining here and there's somebody running for pizza. Why create all this? What prevented us from starting work on October 1st, from having a meeting? In general, working as we used to work before the invasion, which prevents us from working two sessions a month fully and looking at things normally and on the run. And I have a question to ask us right now, we have a 9:55, we have a curfew, Mr. Ruslan, we don't have a guard, we don't have eyelashes, we don't have time, we don't have a club called Bojo, we don't have a club, we can have him working at night. We are the Parliament of Ukraine, the Supreme Council. The curfew is coming up, and I want to know how far we're going to go, what's more, when there's no colleagues? Let's get back to normal tomorrow, maybe some colleagues will come.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u967	Alexeiyyovich, first of all, the curfew of the 12th in Kiev, I remind you of this, it's worth knowing, and second of all, maybe someone doesn't know, the electorate doesn't know that the activity of the rest facilities is governed by the city government, which is represented by your faction actively, the "Stack" faction and "Staff of the People" there in opposition. So please refer the issue to the Kiev City Authority, which you are in charge of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u968	Thank you. Let's move on. 895 amendment, Bakumov. What, what? We're about to get to your point, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich, of the procedure you have. No, Irina Volodymyrna, you're constantly out of procedure and not out of procedure. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u969	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Our faction is not yet on the Kyiv City Council, so it is you who have to sort things out. And as to what a colleague has pointed out, the curfew is really coming up, and I would like to point out what we're working on at that time, how much time do you really plan to take the people's deputies to the curfew, as defined by the law, to return to their permanent place of residence? We're not going to break it. It's also your area of responsibility, and the apparatus, and ours, and we're going to hear exactly what the law says, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u970	I think that when we end up depending on both you and your colleagues and the sooner we finish, the sooner we get to the other responsibilities. So, please continue with the next amendment to 895. Bakumov. Declined. 896. Oh, you are? There's Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich, and I looked at you there, and you're always migrating. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u971	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question, Mr. Secretary of Finance, I have 895 amendments to reduce the funding of the Bureau of Economic Security just to the amount that was taken away from the National Academy of Legal Sciences. I have a question, and why did we take one of the branches of the National Academy, which is located in the city of Kharkiv, in the unbreakable city of Kharkiv, and take this little bit of money, and sweep it away, don't do that. If there's an approach, when we take it to scientific institutions, in national scientific institutions, it has to be balanced, and we take and pinch off a branch of the microsum academy, which is still the Presidium in Kharkiv. So I suggested we cut it off at the expense of the Economic Security Bureau.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u972	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 895 Bakumov amendment, it was rejected by the committee, please vote. [[21:59:01]] For-35 The decision is not made, unfortunately. Let's move on. 896th, 897th, 898th, 899th, 900th. Dmitri Alexanderovich, yours, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u973	Ruslan Alexiyovich, back to your question of how much time we have been given, we are given just as much as any national MP determines. And your function, I just don't want to take it out of the procedure, as part of the readjustment, so that you don't waste your time, get a normal job. I asked you a question as to the Head of the Supreme Council. I'd like to hear a normal answer, how do you see that? How the Supreme Council of Ukraine will operate and work today within the framework of that law, within the framework of the standards under which all the Ukrainian society lives. We're no different, are we? So I'd like to understand how you see it. Because if we're going to do this, I can just push on every direction, and I'm definitely not in a hurry, and I'm okay with you, too. Also, workmates need to get home, including to the left bank. So I asked you a question, I would like to hear it from you as the Head of the Supreme Council in charge of which and in whose obligations it is to comply with the Rules, the laws of Ukraine and to ensure the activities of the Supreme Council, as the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine continues today. I thank you very much for the answer that I hope to receive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u974	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. You know, for some reason, I think there are a little bit more powers to exercise the MPs' powers under the Ukrainian Law on the Status of People's Deputies. And it is predicted that even during a period of war, these powers and those rights cannot be restricted, including the right to move. This is about the first answer. The other one. With that approach, if we're going to say let's finish, because it's curfew. And if we don't let God gather as a curfew, we're going to say we're not going to get together because we have a curfew? We carry out our duties as we do. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. 901, 902, 903. 901? Please. Smart guy, 901.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u975	Ruslan Alexiyovich, if we go back to the fact that we can't be narrowed down by the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, we'd like to ask the same question about shipping, ask questions about how the Supreme Council works. It's just that I'm sure that as a human being, you have to take the same position on all issues, not just that we're sitting in the room today with you in 30 people. Where's everybody else? Then please ensure that all other national deputies are in the workplace. You're the head of the Supreme Council, that's your authority, I'm sure you can handle it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u976	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u977	You know how to do it, you know how to do it. This is provided for in the laws of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine. Because, well, just so we don't turn our work into a farce. So in this regard, I completely agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u978	Thank you. To carry out the responsibilities entrusted to me, I invite the national deputies to return to their jobs and to carry out their necessary functions. Thank you. Can we still go, Dmitri Alexanderovich? 902nd. 903rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u979	About what? About the expedition? In part of the expeditions, I am solely governed by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. Please, what's next? 902? Please, 902nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u980	Ruslan Alexiyovich, well, I don't want to move on to personality right now, but if the shipping to Poland, which was, you've forbidden the departure of all the people's deputies who were invited to an economic forum, a large economic forum, unfortunately, I think that's a mistake, except for one representative of the People's Servants. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u981	Can we find out who?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u982	Mr. Dunda's gone abroad at the time, if I'm not mistaken. He showed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u983	Look, I'm telling you again, Mr. Dundee has not been signed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u984	How did he leave then?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u985	Look, it's not for me anymore. I won't allow it, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u986	No, this is for you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, this is for you. You're the head of this body.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u987	Again, once again, I am not responsible for the activities of the national deputies outside. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u988	You're in charge of the Supreme Council, it's your function.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u989	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Once again, Mr. Dundee's deployment was not complete. I answered this very delicately. answer. 903rd. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u990	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Then, based on this logic, all other national MPs can leave without your permission?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u991	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I don't give permission or permission to go abroad, outside Ukraine, I don't do that. I'm just publishing two things -- this is a matter of people's leave of absence, as well as questions related to the deployment of Parliament's interests, exclusively these things.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u992	Okay. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I would like to make a parallel request to provide information that I have addressed to both you and the Apparatus. How much budget was spent on the deployment of Ukrainian national deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u993	Dmitri Alexanderovich, this request was read today. In the corresponding standards and terms provided there, you'll get any answer from this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u994	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u995	Thank you. 904th. Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u996	Thank you. Roxolano Andriyovno, we'll come back to you if you don't mind. Roxolano Andriyovno, please tell me why my and my colleagues' allowances for 700 million extra funding for SAP and NAB have not been taken into account. Do you not think that under the growing corruption that our international partners are constantly talking about, we have to ensure the continuity of these institutions, the continuity of their effective work, so that we can really provide them with the opportunity to send corrupters to the liquor store? Why were these adjustments not supported? This can be done on the basis of external borrowings, but unfortunately it was not done on the committee. I'd like to hear your position. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u997	Please give the committee a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u998	By the way, it's going to be a very interesting and probably a little paradoxical answer right now. But when the draft law was agreed with the International Monetary Fund, this respected organization, which is very much in charge of our budget and anti-corruption bodies, did not support an increase in the total public budget expenditure, including for the NAB and the SAP.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u999	Thank you. Next, 905th Amendment. Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1000	Thank you, Roxolano Andriyevno. Can we see this letter and this information? I believe and trust you as I always do, but I'd really like to see what they don't support. Perhaps the next step will be to close these institutions at all? But I hope this doesn't happen because they've already sent a lot of corrupts abroad. For the bars. And some, yes, fled abroad, that too, that's Freud's muck out.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1001	Roxanne Andriyovn, please. If you have anything to add, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1002	Dmitri Alexanderovich, you know that national MPs don't engage in negotiations with the International Monetary Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1003	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1004	And here's what Denise Valeriyovich might comment on, because he's the man who's negotiating with the IMF.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1005	Come on, Dennis Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1006	I'm saying that the NAB and the SAP didn't support the IMF in this budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1007	As far as the budget is concerned. Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1008	Feel-feeling, say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1009	As far as the budget is concerned. All the budget parameters were.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1010	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1011	I turned it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1012	Anything, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1013	Now you can hear it, can't you? So about the budget parameters. All the budget parameters that have been agreed with our international partners of the IMF on incomes related to deficits and within this framework have been agreed upon. Any increase or change in these parameters leads to a balanced program.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1014	Thank you. Please, 906 Mikisha. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1015	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have two orders: 906th and 952nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1016	Please, let us unite.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1017	One minute will be enough for me. See, it's about balancing the budget so that we don't balance it and go anywhere, and we've just suggested that we take 315 million out of the baby, 230 out of the U.S.A., with all due respect for the guys that are there, but there are a lot of professionals. But in general, to increase exactly the funding of that structure that was actually put into the budget, a little bit odd. And even because of these two lines, we're already saving more than half a billion dollars. Instead, we suggest adding 800 million dollars to the BPLA, just for drones. That's it. We keep talking about what we're doing at the expense of some economic lines and we're switching to what's really necessary and what's needed on the front is drones. That's why we did it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1018	Thank you. Back to the previous format: 907, 908, 909, 910, 911. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1019	Ruslan Alexiyovich, not until we get back to the format that we have. 907 revisions, it proposes from Program 6520,000 to redistribute funds as follows: to the Ukrainian Security Service – 1.4 billion dollars, to the Central Intelligence Directorate – 1.4 billion dollars, to the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office – 700 million dollars, to the NABU – 700 million dollars. We were just talking about this. I absolutely don't want to argue with the IMF, that's what Denis Valeriyovich, Sergey Mikhailovich is for. I think he'll do it professionally without me. But I have another question: there's no extra expenses here, there's nothing extra. I'm sure the IMF won't mind if we step up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1020	Thank you. 908th. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1021	They will enhance the ability of the SAP and the NAB. We talked a lot about GUR today, and I'm sure there's still strength to vote for it. Unfortunately, there are no people in the room. If we're talking to you about SAP, it's the same situation as the NAB. If we're talking about the BSS, they also need to allocate some of the funds to make them more efficient in performing the operations they're conducting and talking about. In fact, there's also a lot of people who deserve respect -- the real heroes of our state. But in parallel, my dear colleagues, I would like to point out that it is our team of "Smart Politics" that has passed a law that actually allows for a regime of real punishment, a serious punishment for corrupters.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1022	Thank you. Please 909 amendments, Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1023	What I'm talking about right now is a bill that compares responsibility for treason to punishment, corruption of punishment for treason, that is, 15 to life with confiscation of property. And unlike what the President said, but unfortunately we didn't see the bill in the Supreme Council walls, I understand that PR is all of ours, but I wanted our PRs to stay out of business. That's why we were expecting an alternative from the President. Unfortunately, he didn't enter the walls of the Supreme Council. Well, in this respect, we helped, there's our bill that compares corruption to punishment for treason, that is, 15 or life. Sadly, though, the honourable Conciliation Council, along with the leadership of the Supreme Council, does not want to pass this law on the walls of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1024	Please, 910 revisions, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1025	In turn, unlike what the President has said, we do not propose to take it to the H.R.U. and hide it there, but to leave it in the SAP and the N.A.U.U., structures that are not even subordinated to the President's Office. And, in fact, the situation today is relatively independent, and it was very desirable for them to be fully independent. So I hope that these changes will be supported. I'm going to ask 911 to vote, and on the other hand, I'd like to ask the People's Deputies first of all to support the President's words and to vote in favour of our law "Smart Politics" on comparing punishment for corruption in war to treason. This is fair in terms of the military and our Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1026	And we put 911 on the vote. I'm putting 911 on the vote, Razumkov's authorship, the committee's been rejected. Please vote. [[22:14:37]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. 912th Iron, 913th Iron, 914th Iron, 915th. Aah! 914 Ironmen, don't insist. They've already made these amendments. 915th. Don't insist. 916. They insist. Please, Big Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1027	Dear colleagues, if we're talking about the Security Service that has recently shown that in recent years it has been a successful service, I think it deserves to be allocated additional funds. You've seen the special operations she's doing both in the back of the enemy and working in the counterintelligence field. We see her engaging in attacks on Crimea and other occupied areas. So I think if we can give them extra money, they'll work even more effectively. But this is on condition that you, your honorary colleagues, support our amendment and vote in favour of allocating additional funds to the Ukrainian Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1028	Put it on, yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1029	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1030	I'm betting on 916 amendments, please vote on Bondar and Veliczovich's authorship. The committee turned it down. [[22:16:16]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 917. Are you insisting? Please, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1031	Thank you. Dear colleagues, why can't we vote for this law? I'll tell you right now: the distribution of funds through local budgets, as it's not surprising, is much more transparent and less corrupt than the distribution of funds through the central budget. If we don't have enough money, well, listen, we're spending 175 million dollars a year on the council. And this is, for a minute, 1750 Mavic, which could be directed to the front. Moreover, this channel, frankly, as it is, is purely propaganda and nobody needs it. But I also want to remind you of the appeal that they don't take PFCs into local budgets. And today I'm going to give an example from the Ivano-Frankow district where the Ivano-Frankow District Council supported this decision, the Ivano-Frankow City Council. And it will be very interesting how the deputies of the "Serves of the People" elected by Ivano-Frankish: Proštek Edouard Petrovich, Matusevich Alexander Borisovich, Timothychuk Vladimir Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1032	Thank you. Please, let's move on. Next up, 918, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1033	Alexei Hotcharenko. Friends, it's about adding funds to the Ukrainian Security Service to do battle tasks. Security services are also at the front end today, and we also need to support them. We have to get the money out of the national marathon. Who needs it? Is he the one who's fighting the war? Why do we spend billions on it? Someone's got a smile on my liquid, so at least the state doesn't pay a penny, and the results are more, people can see what's going on. What do people pay their billions, their taxpayers, their marathons, or their hundreds of millions for the Council Channel? Just to look at the same faces that tell them the same thing? And they tell lies. So, friends, let's take these costs away, give to those in whose hands our real victory and our lives, to our military: the U.S.S.U., the N.S.U.S., the D.S.U.S.U., the B.S.U., the G.S.U. This has to be ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1034	Thank you. Please, 911, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1035	Let's keep going. And in the 919 I'm voting absolutely, and I want to see how we vote. Let everyone know. I want the Ukrainians to know how we're discussing here, how we react to everything that we're ignoring here with the military, ignoring. And we ignore the issue of total demobilization, an extremely important question. Makes it look like it's nothing at all: well, there's some people on the front -- well, let them always be on their own. We have the first and second groups with disabilities who have no right to be released from the U.S.S.A. Well, how long is this going to take? Restrictedly qualified people are brought out of the state, and they're hanging, and nothing's happening. Well, that's a matter for the Supreme Council to consider. We're not even going, we can't, we're meeting one day in October, so where are all the deputies? Where are they? The speaker urged them to come. I'm told there's something going on in Kyivrad, so you're driving here, most of you. "Serves of the people," where are your deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1036	Dear colleagues, I'm putting 919 amendments to the vote. She is the authorship of Gerasim, Pauline, Pottery, and she is rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[22:20:19]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Next, yes, 920. Don't insist. 921. Don't insist. 922 Gerasimov, please. 921 is insisting, isn't it? I'm sorry. Then, Bigwig, 921st.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1037	Dear colleagues, the fight against terrorism is now what the curfew is for. The curfew is designed not only for those who need to rest at home but also for law enforcement authorities and special services to catch possible DWPs. Therefore, I believe that we should support our security services and not forget that the curfew is mandatory for all. Not all MPs have cars, not all have security and passes to move through the night Kiev under military conditions and curfews. Please don't forget that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1038	Thank you. Please, next amendment to 922, Gerasims.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1039	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Once again, I would like to remind you that this law cannot be voted on. It is closely related to the next 10037, which refers to the removal of PDFs from local councils today. And I would like to say, hundreds, to remind you, the local councils have already decided that they are absolutely against their removal. Among these, there is also the Council of the Volin Region, for example, that decision was taken by the Lutsk City Council. And that was the decision taken by the Gorokhiv City Council, namely, in the city of Gorokhiv, District No. 20, chosen by the "Serve of the People" Rublov Vejacheslav Volodimirovich. And it's very interesting, but how is he going to vote for this bill? Will he take money from his community? Will he be taking the money that the community today is seeking to help the military? Yes or no? Let's keep track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1040	Thank you. 923rd. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1041	Alexei Hotcharenko. Here, my job is to add funds in the direction of coordinating activities in the prevention of terrorist acts. We all saw a terrible tragedy today in Kupyansk. The terrorist country is not stopping and continues to attack us. So it's very important. And you know what I'm curious about, your, now you have a dilemma, and you're showing the Supreme Council at night, so no one knows what's going on here, it's a movie for adults, you've compared it, or a movie of horrors, it's hard to say. Now you have a problem, this meeting takes about 12 hours. I mean, even if you start broadcasting at 12 o'clock in the morning, you're going to have to show it this morning. I wonder what you're going to do with it, if you're going to cut it and show it for a few nights in a row so no one can see. I'm just curious and then we'll find out what it was like. And it's my job to pay for the fight against terrorism, not spend it on drums and TV shows. I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1042	You're asking me to put 923 on it, right? I'm betting on the 923rd vote, by Hotcharyenko. The committee's dismissed. [[22:24:08]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Next, 924th, please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1043	Goncharenko. Friends, an extremely important subject, I've already raised it today, we're talking of course, here's my turn to predict the fight against terrorism. Not at all. And I want to make money, and I want to say again, we have, and that's what we need to do is live a human life. Today, Ukraine loses every day three times in fact: we lose people on the front and in the back, and that's our pain, we lose people because we're down the birth rate. And that's a huge problem. Instead of supporting our mothers, supporting young families, we throw 860 bracelets off our shoulders. I wonder who lives here for 860 bucks for one day. And the third. We lose people because every day of war reduces the number of people who come back. What's more, when they see the Supreme Council that works so hard. We need to find a way not to lose the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1044	Please, next amendment 925. Smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1045	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, Rocksolana Andriyevna. I would like to ask what was the logic of the reduction in the funding of the National Academy of Legal Sciences of Ukraine by 717 thousand dollars. I understand that maybe this isn't a priority article itself, and I'd be asked if you would spend extra money on it, but what is the reason why this is going to go down to this important institution? What's the point?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1046	Position of the 925 amendment committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1047	I'll tell you one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1048	Okay. Thank you. Please, 926th. Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1049	Rocksolana Andriyevna, me. I don't think you're turning on the microphone, I didn't hear an answer, why we don't finance, we're reducing funding, there's a letter, or is it a political position, or is it something else? I just wanted to point out and understand. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1050	Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1051	Yes. That would be interesting, by the way, for Alexander Bakumov to hear the answer to that question. Outbox No. 675 of August 21, 23rd, was signed by the President of the National Academy of Legal Sciences, Vladimir Juravel, which states that the National Academy of Legal Sciences offers proposals for a reduction in the budget in 2023 by the form added. In this form of reduction of two programs: scientific and organizational activities of the Presidium. The economy was linked to the death of real academics and a member of the National Academy of Legal Sciences. This saved 216,000 dollars. Another 500,000 dollars were saved by the fact that no rent was paid for the period of the war and the economy was costed at the expense of vacancies.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1052	Thank you. 927. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1053	Thank you, Rocsolana Andriyevna, for the comprehensive answer to that question. Indeed, you, your work deserves great respect. I'd like to go back to 1.2 billion to finance television. Where they plan to go and how they interact with the wording that it is. In the title of this bill, it's a priority. 1.2 billion, I think it's substantial, and I honestly don't care whether it's credit or not, or whether it's credit costs, why we're directing them, in a mild sense, to the unpriority of our activity with you, the activity of our country with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1054	Please respond. Please take the 927th committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1055	In this bill to the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio, we cut spending by 936 thousand dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1056	Thank you. 928th, please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1057	Let's do a few. Let's do three revisions: 928ths, 929ths, 35ths. Then there's two. Okay. Roxolano Andriyovno, please tell me we're not talking about the Ministry right now. I was now asking questions about the cost of creating content, creating programs for the single marathon, and so on. Don't we have one here?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1058	Let's see. None. Probably not. At least we didn't agree to that. There's only one increase in the Ministry of Culture: the preservation of cultural and architectural history in national and state reserves is the Kiev-Pecher laurel that we've already talked about.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1059	Thank you. 930 revisions. Don't insist. 931. Don't insist. 932th, please, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1060	Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, you know the bill can't be voted for very many reasons, I just don't want to remind you of that right now. But I just read a very important moment in the news right now. I think a lot of people in this room also say the word "archer" because it's a company that's been in the market for many years. I personally bought a lot of thermal visionaries and handed them over to the military, each of our colleagues was passing it on, the Dustenka Foundation was buying dozens, hundreds of thermal visionaries and transferring them to the military, searching our law enforcement agencies, and deciding the only manufacturer of cooled thermal targets or shutting down or disrupting activities. Look, it's not funny anymore, it's the defense of the country. And that's why we and the baby want to cut costs. And frankly, not the other law enforcement agencies need to be reduced. And the D.B.I. needs to be reloaded at all, because we all remember what happened in the early days of the war. Thank you. And I'm asking you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1061	932 revisions by Ariev, Gerasimov, Chigoza rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[22:31:20]] For-12. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 933, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1062	Thank you. It's about adding funds to medicine. I don't know who I need, I was just talking about what life is all about. How can we do so if we do not invest in health care? Well, I don't know. What a medical pay today. It's a shame to say this, but when a medic gets 6, 7, 8, 11,000 bracelets, emergency medical care. But it's actually military, they're in front of the front, they're going on rockets, they're going on chess, they're risking their lives every day. I've been working on quick help, I know what this job is, how complicated it is, and we're not doing anything today, well, we're just ignoring it as if they're not there. And then we'll stay, and those who can go now -- women, doctors all over the country, they'll be happy to "understand" them. What are we going to do here? How will we live with you? Or should we give up money for what we need?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1063	Thank you. Please, 934th. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1064	I'll keep going. And I certainly put this amendment to the vote, because I want everyone to vote and determine. There's little money here, by the way, friends. I realize there's no one here to call, but at least you show your position. Well, the language here is that let's at least add 69,000 bracelets here, that's a little bit, let's at least take some symbolic steps to do, well, even though there's some way to show respect for people, for doctors, for education, for rescue workers, and most importantly for our military. These are really the key tasks that we face -- the treatment of our wounded. Finally there's an adjustment in this budget, one of the things that's good here is to triple the packets of NSOs. I mean, so that our wounded get all the food they need at the right level, and the best treatment, and the drugs, and everything, everything, everything. Well, that's what we have to do, they've protected us, we've got to protect them. Why are we sitting here if not for that?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1065	934 amendments, rejected by the committee. I ask you to vote. [[22:33:59]] For-12. The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. Please, 935, Brainy. Can we go a little bit to the previous format? Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1066	Let's go to the previous format. 935th, 936th, 937th, 938th and 939th. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1067	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1068	Dear colleagues, we're approaching important rights, I'm going to put them to the vote, we've spoken to them several times today. Thank you to the Ministry of Finance for the comprehensive answers, thank you to the head of the profile committee. But now we're going to go to the actual vote for whether we're redistributing these resources to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, or whether we're going to spend them in vain. Unfortunately, we can't afford it, we just can't. Because if we don't provide our army, everything else will be irrelevant, because there will be no state. I don't understand the stubbornness with which the majority don't want to increase the financing of the security and defence sector, even because other structures are provided here, I don't understand why you don't want to increase the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by 11 billion dollars, I just don't understand. The excuses that we can't, there's no way we can't, there's no way we don't want to. I'm sure there's enough experts on the committee and there's a good example on the rostrum, I think not all of them can do that, but nevertheless. At the same time, we can invite other experts from all factions, from all groups of foreign experts, to write a quality bill, to quickly vote and accept it, not to engage in a job that unfortunately we do all day when we convince you to pay off the armies.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1069	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Please, 940 Bakumov. Do you insist, Alexander Sergiyovich? 940, please. Turn Bakumov on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1070	Dear Roxolano Andriyevno, I thank you very much for your response regarding the financing of the National Academy of Legal Sciences, but that still explains why funding was reduced accordingly. The only thing I'd like to ask, given what has now been analyzed, is the Honourable Ministry of Finance, Mr. Secretary, the honourable head of the committee. If we're tomorrow or in a month, a few months, we're going to reduce the funding of science, any science, my call, please, let's do it really fair, balanced and calculating, not that one academy really honestly said we have something to take and we took away. That's what they have to say in every sphere -- that's right and that's fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1071	Thank you. Please continue, 941st, 942nd, 943rd, 944th, 945th. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1072	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. As I continue my previous pitch, I do not really understand, and I am even ashamed of colleagues who do not vote for it. I don't understand how in a war state you don't want to take $1.2 billion from a teletarafon and transfer it to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I don't understand how you feel about leaving Baby 220 million. I don't understand how you leave 214 million at the Cabinet Secretariat instead of transferring them to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I don't understand! But what I don't understand is, let's say, that's my problem. Your problem is that people won't understand you. You won't understand our military, you won't understand. I don't think even your loved ones will understand you. I say again, now we're going to put on a block, a few blocks of right, some important rights that can strengthen the ability of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, strengthen the ability of their structures that are really effective on the front that aren't afraid to do super-complex tasks. Let's give them normal security so they can beat our enemy, our common enemy with you. So, Ruslan Alexiyovich, here are a few blocks. I'd like to put them to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1073	And what adjustments, Dmitri Alexanderovich, please tell me?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1074	There'll be 200. Well, they're a little broken, if I could, I'd put them up right now. Okay. All right, let's take the blocks. 947th, 951s.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1075	Now, just a second. I'll do it then. Dear colleagues! I'm putting 947 amendments to the authorship. And you'll put it in later? Oh, okay, okay, okay. I got it. Next, 946. Bakumov, please. Not anymore? Yes. Thank you. Dmitri Alexanderovich, now yours. 947 to 951. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1076	I'm sorry, I just missed what's 946 more. Dear colleagues! Well, I was asking Roxolani about the State Security Service today. There are really many very professional heroic officers there, no questions asked. And I've been asking questions about whether there's going to be more people or whether you're going to pay them more wages?".. And the answer was, "No." The answer was, "We're going to be sending 230 and a half million dollars to ensure the safety of our international guests who come to us." But what are we spending it on? The train you're driving? It's the Crucifixion, it's not the UDO. If we're talking about the UDO car park and fuelling it, well. Let's just figure out how many protected delegations we had, and how much fuel was spent on that, how many cars did we have to drive after that? If you tell me it's 230 million by the end of the year, then based on your logic, it's 80 per month, right? 80 million dollars a month. So you had to have almost a billion dollars before that. Am I counting right? 80 per month, times 12 months. Do we get how much? That's right, 960 million. Tell me, please, or is it not true that you mentioned, Roxolano Andriyevno, or did you make a mistake, or did you get the wrong information? Or these costs will not go to the protection of our foreign partners, but probably to the Office of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1077	Thank you. Dmitri Alexanderovich, you just put 947 in and 951, I understand? I'm betting 947 amendments to the authorship of Reasonable and Colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[22:42:52]] For-13. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 951 and also by Razumkov. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[22:43:16]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Next, please, the 953rd. Don't insist. It's okay. It's okay. 955. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1078	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. You know, I'm just taking the board and I'm giving an example of why you can't vote for it. For example, plus 315 million 197 thousand per baby. Oh, thank God we got the part, but we've got to take it all down. Next. We take a very interesting point: the State Property Fund of Ukraine -- plus 43 million 16,000 dollars. Well, unfortunately, there is. And to be honest, this is to be filmed and sent to the Security and Defence Forces. And once again, one of the key sources of this law is the PFO. You know, in the Kyiv region, there's a lot of advice that they've decided not to delete the VAT. For example, the Brovar City Council, the City Council of Opuchiv, Mironowsk, Sgurowsk, Skrirowsk, and many others. And I wonder how Dunda Oleg Andriyovich of Makarov will vote for this, Koluch Valeriy Viktorovich, Sparrow Alexander Sergiyovich, Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhajlovna and Irina Geraszczenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1079	Thank you. Please give me your word. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, let's stop this petty manipulation. It's not even unfair, it's unethical, my friends. Please, 956th. Goncharenko. Hot plate, please. 956th, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1080	Mr. Ruslane, there are suspicions of sexism because you are Mrs. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1081	On your part?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1082	Yes, Mrs. Irina Heratschenko, you don't give a word, you don't give a word, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1083	Well, I don't think what they didn't call her her last name somehow offends her. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1084	I guess so.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1085	I'll remind you, 956 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1086	Yes, Amendment 956 is another important amendment that tells you about an institution important to you, about the Department of State Security, which also protects you as the Head of the Supreme Council. And maybe we can get your support now. The thing is, this is really an important organization, but it protects not only the President and the Speaker, but it does many other important functions. And when I say that it is necessary to support all the military, the Department of State Security is no exception. By the way, there's a court guard, and they've been forgotten and spitted. It needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1087	Thank you. Please, 957 amendments, Alexei Alexiyovich, yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1088	957. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know when you'll see this, it's interesting when you see it, but someday you'll see it. 12 hours goes by, the first day in October, here all the colleagues are very tired, and as for me, we have to have a debate and talk about important things, because there can't be only one, there at first 2-3 weeks, no, first we're preparing for the shucks, then 2-3 weeks, then cook the bath in Yalta and coffee there will be on the shore. You have to say, we've got a tough time ahead of us. You don't have to cheat people, you have to have a serious, adult, complicated conversation. Instead, we're being pitched this to look like something else's pierre. Guys, this is wrong, and we're going to have serious problems. Parliament has to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1089	Dear colleagues, here we go, 958, 959, 960, 961, 962. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1090	Thank you. Roxolano Andriyovno, we've already communicated with you today in the State Property Fund, 43 million of which, for reasons I don't understand, you're not sending to the Security and Defence Forces, to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to the GUR, to other units, to the National Guard, let's go. Not in principle. Our amendment, the "Smart Policy" amendment, speaks of sending this funding to the U.S.S.A. I realize that maybe within the state budget 43 million that's not much, but there can't be a lot or a lot, here every penny has to go to our army with you. I heard the argument that you pointed out that someone was going to be suing. Well, let them go to court if they don't have a conscience. Just like there's no conscience in those "grantoid" organizations that are very often representatives of the boards of supervisors and get 300, 500,000 dollars a month, 900,000 dollars a month. It's just as embarrassing and unfair. But let us not follow them and follow their logic and common sense. Do they want to go to court? Let them pass. We will judge them as the state of Ukraine. In the meantime, all the funds are to be directed to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Dear colleagues! Let's not do "erundo," let's support the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Please vote for these amendments. Two amendments to the vote, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1091	What numbers, Dmitri Alexanderovich? 960th and 961th. Yeah? I'm betting 960 amendments to Razumkov's authorship, it's rejected. Please vote. [[22:49:47]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. And I put 961 on the authorship of Dmitry Razumkov and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. 22/:50:09 For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Next. The next amendment is 963, 964th, 965th, 966th, 967th. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1092	Dear colleagues, I hate to say this in the Supreme Council Hall, but unfortunately, at the beginning of the war I got to one, not at the time it wasn't DFTG it was, it was in the Belgrade district, it was the second day of the war. And there were men who were going to defend their villages, and they took guns, and they took weapons, and they were getting ready to cut off the Russians. I'm meeting them, and one of them says, "I'm a captain. I'm a lieutenant. I'm a lieutenant colonel." And there's a man sitting there saying, "I'm the Lieutenant Colonel of the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service." And he has great respect for what he did. I say, "How much do you have in store when you're fired?".. He says, "I didn't get fired." I say, "What are you doing here?".. He says, "I don't have anywhere to go." Because this structure was so interesting that, for example, their warehouses under Kiev in the so-called 24th forest were so broken that they still can't find weapons. And now we're allocating 500 million. Why did I talk so much about GUR today? I am truly proud of this organization. I honestly think they've done everything they should have done since the 24th. Like the Armed Forces of Ukraine did. As the Supreme Council did, it met in this hall, it didn't run away, it didn't run away, it was here. After the meeting, some left. And the Council was here, unlike many other institutions that moved very quickly to the Carpathians. So let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1093	Why don't you go to the next one? Add another minute to Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1094	So there is still an offer to give money, not because someone wants it that way, but to someone who really deserves it. You're proposing to allocate half a billion dollars to the External Intelligence Service. I think that the Armed Forces of Ukraine are more effective, and it's proposed that 333 million be allocated to them and 166, almost 167 million to the Department of Defense Intelligence. I very, very, very much ask you to support those who have protected you on February 24th and have given you the opportunity to vote in this room on all that was necessary for the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1095	966 then, right? Two. 966th and 967th. I'm betting on 966 amendments for consideration, authorship of Reasonable and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[22:54:10]] For-16 The decision is not taken. And 967th is also the authorship of reason and colleagues. Please vote. [[22:54:31]] For-16 The decision is not taken. 968th, don't insist. 969th. Please, Big Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1096	Dear colleagues, I would like to support this bill, which speaks of adding to the budget programme 6621010: "to provide intelligence activities in the security of the State, to protect state representation abroad and to the activities of the units of the Ukrainian External Intelligence Service." And increase spending on the general fund by nearly 638,000. And on occasion, I'd like to pay attention, see if we can get together the way we do today, we can go into normal mode of work. Not once, twice, there, at two weeks, but to go to month after week of work is perfectly normal. Today has completely shown that we can work systematically and continuously, just like the military on the front.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1097	969 repairs (right?) That was it. 970. Please, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1098	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, this is such a moment that I do not agree with this amendment with Dmitr Alexanderovich. Why? Because we believe that it is necessary to add to the External Intelligence Service. Yes, indeed, in the early days of the war there were very many claims to very many institutions, some of which I have already called today. But with regard to the situation today, without external intelligence, we too will lose because it is part of our fight against the aggressor. But with regard to this law, I've already given many examples of why it can't be voted on and I'm just going to continue to quote it. For example, the Ministry of Finance wants to allocate 272 million 791 thousand dollars. Why? Not necessary, because they have 252, if I'm not mistaken, millions of unutilized wages. And that's just part of the examples. And I'm going to continue to talk to them about what amounts are going to go, so let's say, I'd say, without some justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1099	Thank you. Please, the 971st Pottery Correction. 971.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1100	Gerasimov said to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1101	I'm sorry. The 970th authorship of Gerasimov and his colleagues was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[22:57:18]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. 971. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1102	We suggest that I add money to the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service. After February 24, 2022, I think it's obvious to every human being how important it is when the country is not prepared for a full-scale invasion and we have a disaster in the South, we have an enemy who has reached the border of Kiev. Although we were warned by our partners, the authorities refused to believe. The results are terrible. The External Intelligence Service must be strong enough to know all the enemy’s plans. Or maybe finally take a decisive blow to this lair and take down this bastard Vladimir Vladimirovich Puilo. So it's our job to help our scouts, they'll give it to us. Thank you. I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1103	Thank you. 971 repairs to the potter. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[22:58:41]] For-18. The decision is not taken. 972. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1104	Again, it is an external intelligence service. Once again, I want to draw your attention to how important this is, how important it is. It's a matter of priority. Well, I'm really losing it. So this particular right over here is going to add 647,000 dollars. We've seen "The Crushing" order 79,000 bracelets of stuff for one and a half million, some kind of souvenir. Well, this kind of cost is very, very important, just essential. And add something to the External Intelligence Service -- a thread. Add something to the NSO, DPSU string. ZU is a thread, a thread, a thread. I'll be damned if you don't mind. It's good to rob somewhere. Send the money for a kind of solar power created by the vice president's head? But it's always good to see you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1105	Thank you. Please, 973, 974, 975th, 976th, 977th. Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1106	Ruslan Alexiyovich, we were talking today about the State Department, 570 million. And unfortunately, Rocsolana Andrienne couldn't convince us because I don't understand, we're not increasing the number, we're not increasing anything, but we want to spend almost 600 million dollars there. It doesn't make any sense. I don't support her. My colleagues in "Smart Politics" don't support it either, because 560 million on drones is not enough for an army of drones that's been talked about so much, but counting these costs on the Armed Forces of Ukraine and on GUR would make sense. So once again, two thirds of 570 million, that's 380 million in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and 190 million in the Central Intelligence Agency. I don't know what they're doing. Roxolano Andriyovno, I've praised you so much, but, you see, at the end of the day, you've got a nerve, you're closer to the Motovilovite. But let's get back to work. Seriously, I don't understand why the drones are used by the State Department. I just don't get it. Show me these tasks in their functions. Where is this prescribed? Why? Because this is Fedor's subordinate structure? That's very good, but we're a public figure, not a private one. So let's channel this money to the army and GUR.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1107	Thank you. Dmitri Alexanderovich, we're voting 977th, aren't we? Two: 976, 977. Please. One? Please, the 977th author of Razumkov and her colleagues, she's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[23:02:36]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. 978. Don't insist. 979. Don't insist. They insist. Big guy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1108	Dear colleagues, this is an amendment to the budget programme 6641010 "Ensure the functioning of the state system of special communications and information protection". And I'm asking this right to increase the consumption of this service by 616,000. I think that this service and what they're planning to do right now is what's needed right now. We see how necessary drones are now on the front, how effective they will be, and how much they keep our soldiers alive. So I'm going to ask all my colleagues to support this bill so that we can allocate additional funds to the State Service and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1109	979 The amendment by Bondar and Veličkovich was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[23:04:09]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 980. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1110	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I keep talking about why this bill can't be voted on again. So we have an extra, I emphasize, an additional 91 million 198 thousand for the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. I want to remind you, it's for the maintenance of Russian prisoners of war. In addition, I would like to emphasize. Whether or not you have to make an appointment, well, you know, consult with a lot of colleagues, I don't think that's right. 30 million are additionally allocated to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources. Why? Why do this now? And you know, we made it to the Zakarpatsky PDFO. So there the Zacarpathian District Council decided not to take away the VAT. It will be very interesting how this will be voted by Laba Mikhailovich, who was elected in Zakarpatsk district in the town of Svalja in District No. 70. We'll keep an eye on this tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1112	And a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1113	The 980 revision of Ariev, Gerasimov, Czegoza, was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[23:05:38]] For -8 The decision is not taken. 981. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1114	981, Goncharenko. This is about spending on the State system of special communications and information protection. It's extremely important in today's 20th century conditions, it's also cybersecurity, it's drones. And you know, maybe it's enough to put all this on the hands of volunteers instead of the work of Ucrobanprom, state-owned enterprises? We have one Minvolonter and Ukrwoloninterprom to provide the military with very many things to provide for the public authorities. I know that. We're very active in this. The Goncharenko Centers passed 24 anti-drone guns, dozens of drones, hundreds of raids. And we will continue to do all we can, thanks to our people, to those who come, to those who will, to partners, even to foreign partners. But the state can't spend money on TV shows when kids give away their last bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1115	Please, 982th. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1116	Once again, it is a state system of special communication and information protection. We met with them today. And what I want to say is that they were communicating directly and they were telling us how big and needed work was going. So how can we not support them? In fact, making crazy expenses. You know how much we've spent tens of millions on some weird, kind of English-speaking, alien vision of something that some culinary show that no one's looking at. Get in there now on the internet, how many people are you looking at? How much? Zero. It's all some kind of dining room for someone who's been created, quietly sewn up there, and at this point, we're missing the key to our defense and our victory. Well, I don't know what to call it, but I demand a vote on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1117	Thank you. Please, 982 revisions of Gerasimov, Pavelka, and Hotcharyenka were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[23:08:16]] For-9 The decision is not taken. 983, Ironborn, Kid, Cabal, don't insist. 984, Ironborn, Kid, Cabal, don't insist. Ninety-five, Iron Man, Kid, Cabal, don't insist. 986th, Fedina, Friz, don't insist. 987, Bondar and Velikichovich, don't insist. 988th, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1118	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Let's keep talking about this bill. Once again, we see from the title that this shows that we only have money going to the security and defence sectors and to the primary needs. And here we see the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine plus 18 additional millions. Listen, what, did he have $2 billion on "Marafone" that almost nobody's looking at? And you could just point that money at the U.S.S. You don't have $175 million on Radio? And, you know, I'd like to say that this is the kind of thing that undermines trust in projects like this. And on many occasions today, the idea was that if the money were actually allocated exclusively to the security and defence sectors, it would have been voted out without any problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-05-m0.u1119	Thank you. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, our consideration of the agenda for the day is not complete, but I thank you all for your fruitful work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We're still working to win. Glory to Ukraine!
