ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in the context of the state of war" today, we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, before continuing the plenary session, I stress the need for sustained compliance with the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the non-proliferation of information regarding the opening of the plenary session, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament before the hour after the announcement of the recess in plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. In the event of an air alarm, there will be a pause in the plenary and we all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. I have the honour to inform you that today the Ukrainian National MPs, the distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have come to the Ukrainian Parliament: the delegation of the United for Ukraine Parliamentary Union, which includes the heads and members of committees in foreign affairs and the defence of the national parliaments — the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Austria, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, Canada, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Iceland, Ireland, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, the Kingdom of Spain and the Kingdom of Sweden. [[Applause]] Also present today in the hall: Deputy Marshal of the Senate of Poland Michal Kaminsky, deputy of the German Bundestag and European Parliament, heads of diplomatic missions and representatives of international organizations accredited in Ukraine. [[Applause]] The plenary is also attended by the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Dmitri Valeriovich Lubinetz. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, according to parliamentary tradition, I invite you to perform the National Hymn of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u2	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are invited to the floor by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian people! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the ambassadors, representatives of the diplomatic corps, distinguished guests, dear friends of Ukraine! Today is our special day, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian State. [[Applause]] It is this day that has extraordinary weight and power, for 32 years ago, on August 24, 1991, the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared the independence of the Ukrainian State a supreme act of historical justice. [[Applause]] This day has an extraordinary weight and strength, for it is not only a birthday but also a day of rebirth of Ukraine, which through a thousand years of struggle, through periods of conquest and captivity, through unending periods of rebirth and freedom of life must complete the struggle for the right to be independent in its own internal choices and international development. Today, we are filled with many emotions and feelings that I would like to express in particular the emotion of gratitude. On the day of our independence, I want us to first mention and thank our famous and heroic defenders -- our Armed Forces, all the security forces and defenses that are tirelessly protecting Ukraine from the enemy who has come to our land every day and night. [[Applause]] I want us to thank the great Ukrainian people, who, despite their great suffering, are doing well in the most difficult trials of their modern history, demonstrating unprecedented courage, solidarity and faith in victory. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I want us to thank our loyal and trusted friends who have not left Ukraine alone with the enemy, we are grateful for every accepted and protected Ukrainian and Ukrainian, for their weapons, for their political leadership, for all forms of support, for everything you continue to do to make Ukraine stand and win. Thank you. [[Applause]] Individually, my fellow Members, I would like us to thank today for the first democratic call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this day, which has made historic decisions to declare Ukraine's independence, and some of these deputies today are in the Parliament Hall. This is Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev and Julius Jakovitch Ioffe. Let us thank them. [[Applause]] My fellow Members, I very much want us to also thank all our fellow national deputies who have initiated and made decisions to uphold our national and national symbols, which have prepared and voted for the first Ukrainian Constitution, which have worked in a selfless and selfless manner for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, personally, I would like to express my deep gratitude to each of you and to your inspired work for the benefit of our Fatherland. And my gratitude is based primarily on the experience of our 18-month standoff of the aggressor, which for us, honourable national MPs, began with a meeting in this sessionary hall on a disturbing morning of February 24, 2022. And that complete hall is still in front of me, as is your determination, your gathering, and your willingness to defend yourself. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, but gratefully, are always there for the memory. And I want us to have a moment of silence to honor all the Ukrainians who, at all times and under different historical circumstances, fought and gave their strength and lives for the freedom and independence of Ukraine. [[A Minute of Silence]] Dear colleagues! I am convinced that it was our generation that faced a difficult but historic mission to put a stop to the full and final restoration of Ukraine’s independence. This difficult task has a few dimensions, and the first of them is definitely our victory. And today all efforts must be made to achieve this goal. Ukraine must restore its sovereignty, territorial integrity, within internationally recognized borders. Unlike a notorious and unprincipled aggressor, we never set foot in foreign lands but merely protected our territories, our lands, our homes, our own traditions, culture, and language. Our victory is another function that goes far beyond our state, because it's no longer a war for principles and values, and it's a war for which and whose model will support the world for the next hundred years, because the world will be oriented towards the winner and shaping its policies, taking into account the model that will prevail. And I really want this example to be the force of democracy, not the rusty press of dictatorship. In the context of this, I would like to propose the Volodymyr formula for peace proposed by President Volodymyr of Ukraine, which is not only a formula for the end of war, but also a universal formula for peaceful coexistence between States on the universal principles of respect for international law. In the second measure, I see the reconstruction and renewal of Ukraine in the broad sense of that word. We must not only restore everything destroyed by the enemy but also those destroyed by corruption, indifference, and irresponsibility. To my profound conviction, we need to build a new architecture of the Ukrainian state and society, which will be based on firm principles of virtue, justice and responsibility. Ukraine’s third measure of restoration of independence is secure and international. This means that Ukraine has and will be a member of the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we have not only made a decisive choice in favour of returning to a large and free family of European nations but also pay a high and bloody price. That is why membership in the EU and NATO is the greatest and most reliable guarantee of our independence. Dear friends, another feeling that we will feel today is a sense of pride, pride for belonging to the great Ukrainian people, and involvement in the creation of today and the future of our only and unique Ukraine. Therefore, dear fellow workers, let us be worthy of this call! I want us to perform another symbolic act today, which will bring us back to the distant year 1991, when on August 24, about nine o'clock in the evening, at the appeal of our famous predecessors — the deputies of Viacheslav Crnovola, Leuk Lukyanka, Roman Lubkowski and many others — was introduced to this session hall for the first time, which will later gain high status as a state. Roller, please. [[Video recording broadcast]] Dear colleagues, and in order to continue this emotional thread of memories, I request the honor of bringing to the Hall of Meetings the historic Flag of Independence of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give time to three minutes before the daytime issues were discussed for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Then we will move on to the very important issues that are also related to our progress in independence. Please sit down and ask representatives of the MPs and groups to sign up. Please, colleagues. Dear colleagues, please, the colleagues are now enrolled. I'm asking you to stay put, I'm going to leave for President Naused for a moment, and Alexander Sergiyovich is going to continue this part, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u5	Thank you. Alexander Hennadyovich Puzanov, "Platforma.".. Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u6	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The second year in a row, we celebrate this date in a state of war, and this, of course, contributes to changing the priorities of all those present in the room. And I want to remind you really what our speaker said when we met here on the morning of February 24th, we voted for the introduction of the state of war, it was the moment that the priorities of all the national MPs changed, and so the priority of Parliament's work changed. What does Parliament need as a priority in order for our country to endure? First of all, of course, it is necessary for Parliament to make the decisions that are necessary for our military, for the restoration of military production, for the manufacture of our own weapons, so that we can stand up to the aggressor. It is very important that the issue of social protection be a priority, especially for those who have lost everything today as a result of aggression: for families of military casualties; for families of peaceful people who have died; for refugees who do not have their own homes today and have lost everything, and are either in or outside the country. It is very important, as a priority for Parliament, to have the prospect of returning our people after victory. To do this, we need to do everything we can to restore the industry, since only then will people come home when they have the opportunity to work, feed their families, and feel that they are needed for the country. All of this should become priorities for Parliament's work, and only then will Parliament do what people expect it to do, what it exists for today and works in the state. I want to say thank you again to all our national deputies for having us all together, and to say hello to the holiday – with Ukraine's Independence Day! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u7	Thank you. Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u8	Dear Ukrainian people, distinguished national MPs, dear, worthy, distinguished guests, our trusted friends, on whom we rely, on whom we owe so much. Thirty-two years of independence, the tenth year of Russian invasion, the next war of Russia against our sovereign and independent state, a year and a half after the beginning of a massive invasion. This war will forever enter the history of the world as a war for Ukraine’s independence. And each of us knows how much our freedom costs. Only Robots this week, just Kurdjumichka, when we lost Sokola yesterday, Ukraine pays that price every day. And we know exactly that we've put our place on the map, we're going to a military victory, but there's still a lot of blood, lots of sweat, lots of tears, but there's no doubt that we're going to beat the enemy. And it will be because of the courage of the only and united Ukrainian people, the strength and strength of our Armed Forces, the help of our partners, the identity and language, the spirit and spirituality, and our faith. Consider how Leukko Lukyanenko believed in this situation when he was in a much worse situation when he met his birthday in a death - row cell today and was sentenced to death, but he had no minute when he had doubts. As Vejacheslav Cnerwell and the other founding parents of the new state, which we have to mention today, believed. Being in a hopeless minority, they had no doubt about our victory for a moment, and this idea is therefore irresistible. And faith and confidence are critical to us. Faith is with such people as the Ukrainians, and it cannot fail. And to be sure, we need a plan, a clear plan. And this plan is Ukraine's membership in the European Union (and today's guarantee is our friends) and Ukraine's NATO membership. Too bad there's no government. This is the first day of independence when the government is not present in the Supreme Council Hall. But I am sure that our main celebration will be celebrated, we will win, we will be members of the EU and NATO. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u9	Please, Jurczyn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u10	Glory to Ukraine! Dear friends, it is a great honor to speak from the Voice faction on such a day and to express our gratitude to all who have over the centuries chosen our opportunity in a sovereign state, in an independent parliament, even during the tenth year of war, but to speak in Ukrainian, to speak in Ukraine and to speak in Ukrainian interest. Independence is a responsibility. Responsibility not only for itself but also for the world around us. The war showed that nothing in the world can be resolved in Ukraine’s interests without Ukraine. But war also gives us another task: nothing in the world should happen without Ukraine's presence and without Ukraine's contribution. We are so grateful to our international partners for helping us fight the last European empire of evil. And we very much hope that together with them we will be able to initiate a parade of sovereigns, as it once was in the Soviet Union, in an area that is still called the Russian Federation, although it is not essentially a federation. And that, during one of the following celebrations of Independence Day, alongside the flags of our European partners, and perhaps partners from around the world, will hang flags of the free Idel Ural, the Republic of the Sakha, Tuwa, Kalmykia, that is, those nations that are still enslaved. We have already passed an important law by the Supreme Council, a decree on the right of the UN regulations to define all the enslaved peoples of Russia. Today, we will be setting up a temporary special commission with you to develop a state policy regarding the enslaved peoples of Russia. I call on our European partners to initiate the same kind of organ to infect us with independence and the territory still occupied by Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u11	Please, "Trust," Paul Andriovich Bakunec.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u12	Dear Ukrainian people! Respectable Highly Respected International Partners! Especially you, the Ukrainians who are dressed today, not just in embroidery, but the Ukrainians who are dressed in military uniform today, I have the great privilege of thanking you, welcoming from this high rostrum the entire Ukrainian people with the Day of Independence of Ukraine. We can proudly celebrate this celebration thanks to the courageous soldiers who for centuries, decades, decades, and in the modern world have given their most precious lives for our state to be independent. We understand the high price of this independence. It, our independence, is measured in sweat, in human tears. Independence is measured in human blood, in a devoted human life. Our independence is also measured in the magnificent actions of our Ukrainians. It's measured in heroism, in courage, in mutual assistance when it's most necessary. I think we're all proud to be Ukrainian today. During these years, the world has revealed to itself Ukraine and the Ukrainians the challenge of being a courageous, loving nation that did not fear and unite, starting a fight against an overwhelming enemy. The world has opened up Ukraine to courageous soldiers and a country of people who want to live in a free and independent state. And today, thanks to the Ukrainians, we're talking about both our soldiers and our volunteers, both our doctors and our teachers, our energy workers, our lifeguards, our entrepreneurs who didn't leave, and they're paying taxes, everyone, about the sphere of culture, the artists who do amazing things every day, so that our nation, the proud name of which Ukraine, is becoming increasingly independent and moving towards the circle of European democratic states. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u13	Thank you. Yes, "Serve of the People," Venislav Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, distinguished Ukrainians! Today our nation celebrates its 32nd anniversary of independence. But this independence didn't arise in an empty place, and it didn't come about in the 91st year, and it didn't come about in the 1990s when the Declaration of State Sovereignty was declared. Ukrainian statehood is one of the oldest in the history of European civilization. Ukrainian statehood has more than a thousand years of history of its origin, formation and development. On February 24, last year, the Russian Federation, after continuing its aggression, which it launched in the 14th year, declared as its main objective in fact the denial of the right of the Ukrainian people to their own nationality, the denial of the right of the Ukrainian nation to self-determination. And if you think about the rhetoric of the Russian Federation, its main job was that Ukraine is not a state, it doesn't have the right to statehood. So this celebration that we are celebrating with you today is incredibly symbolic, it has a profound philosophical meaning, and it is unacceptable to our enemy who has attacked our nation and is trying to destroy it. Ukraine, I want to remind you, was one of the nations that was the founder of the United Nations after World War II. She signed under the United Nations Statute and the purpose of this high international organization was to prevent those fears, the horrors that the entire civilized world experienced during World War II. Regrettably, the Russian Federation, a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, has burned the very value of this organization, violated the principles on which it was founded, and by its aggressive actions, its terrorist attacks on peaceful infrastructure, against the peaceful Ukrainian cities, against the Ukrainian people, it has demonstrated its full respect for international law. But thanks to the support of our friends, supporters, supporters of Ukraine, thanks to the support of all our partners from around the world, Ukraine shows that it has preserved its statehood, it shows that its statehood today is the legacy of freedom and the universal values that the entire civilized world supports. So, given the opportunity to speak out of this high rostrum, I want to thank our Armed Forces, who stand up for our sovereignty and what makes Ukraine's flag known throughout the world. I want to thank our friends and all the Ukrainian people for their resilience and steadfastness. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u15	Heroic glory! Taras Ivanovich Batenko, Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u16	Your Honor is presiding! Colleagues! Representatives of the diplomatic corps! The struggle and the war for Ukraine’s independence touched every Ukrainian. Many of our fellow countrymen have paid for this with their lives. Every such life is for our future, our future Ukraine. As rightly noted, in war the one who has his own image of the postwar world is able to impose it on his enemies, his allies, and his allies. When we're at war, we have to work now to create this picture of our post-war world, understanding that in this work we always have to count on our own strength first. If we don't calculate our own forces in this war, we won't have pictures of the post-war world. So we need to count on our resources, not just the support of allies, for which we are certainly grateful, for ours, starting with taxes and ending with the production of our own weapons. For 80 years the Netherlands had fought for its independence and had long offered the world the most active free economic initiative, trade, by rejecting the dictatorship back in the 17th century, inviting emigrants, merchants, liberal young people, to take full advantage of their innovations at sea. The sea for us, the exit to it is the survival and recovery of the economy of Ukraine, this is the prospect of our state. The Mafia country, the Russian Federation, is challenging not only Ukraine, which wants to be removed from the face of the earth, but Russia, a country of evil and violence, is taking revenge on Ukraine for destroying the Soviet Union and for daring to declare independence. Russia has long challenged the entire human civilization. It is therefore a great mission of Ukraine and the Ukrainians to protect themselves, to protect the borders of Europe, to protect the values of freedom and democracy, which never were empty words for Ukraine. Friends, we all believe that we are waiting for victory, even though we realize that true victory is not only a way out of the border in 1991, but it is primarily the exhaustion of the resources of the Russian Federation, of this under-empire, of the change in the political regime, or of the break-up and dismemberment of it into separate state formations. Only if Russia does not pose a threat to the world will it be a victory. Ukraine struggles and is able to bring it closer. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u17	Heroic glory! Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, Fatherland. Please invite the deputies to the hall, and we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u18	Honorable fellow MPs, distinguished diplomats, distinguished people of Ukraine! Today is really a holiday that is not in our history. If you look, ambassadors, representatives of diplomatic representations, our fellow MPs dressed in embroidery today. I want to thank you for that. And so today the souls of the nations of the whole free world are clothed in embroidery. Why? Because we, Ukrainians, are now proud both of ourselves and of the world, because this is how we fight for freedom, for the right to live, for the right to be free, for the right to build our state, and for the right to be able to build our state. The generation of Viacheslav Crnovola, the brothers of Gorin, Levka Lukyanenka, Igor Yukhnovsky has taken away freedom from slavery for Ukraine by restoring our millennium of progress toward freedom. But our generation today had no less important mission — not just to gain independence, but to choose, to claim it forever. And I am convinced that our generation, our warriors, our people will be able to do this task, and that no one will ever again, under any circumstances, even pretend to be free of Ukraine. On May 8, 1945, British Field Marshal Montgomery said, "We won the war, and now we have to win the peace." And so we Ukrainians have to say that after a victory that will completely restore the territory of Ukraine in 1991 and nothing else is acceptable to us, we must win peace with you. To win peace, which means that our free, peaceful Ukraine is a member of NATO and the European Union, so that Ukrainians who have chosen their right to live on their own land can be happy, rich, happy, happy. And that's our job with you. No step from freedom, no step from the happiness of the Ukrainians! That is why everyone in this Parliament and Ukraine today must serve. Glory to Ukraine! Heroic glory!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, let us thank our distinguished guests, representatives of diplomatic representations, members of parliaments of the partner countries, the European Parliament. Thank you for your support. Thank you for your words and actions, for your weapons, for everything you do for our country. [[Applause]] Thank you for your participation in the plenary session of the Supreme Council on this important and historic day for our people. Together to victory! [[Applause]] Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we continue our plenary work. Today is the birthday of our colleague of the Ukrainian national deputy Mikoli Ivanovich Kucher, group "Trust". We welcome the noun, wish for good health, new gains in the law - making field, and Ukraine’s rapid victory. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the agenda. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose that a signal vote be held prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Please take part in the signal vote. [[12:53:19]] For 227 Against - 7, held - 2. The rest are selfies, that's great. Dear colleagues, as always. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. But before that, I once again appeal to all my colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, which was decided in Parliament sooner than an hour after the end of our work. Dear colleagues, we're moving to the bill. Now, just a second. In accordance with articles 50, 96, 101 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I received a letter from the leaders of the parliamentary factions and groups on the need for immediate review of the draft Law (Registration No. 9638) amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening the social protection of military personnel, police officers and others, and not denying the application of the ad hoc procedure. The need for urgent consideration of the matter was decided upon by the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups. So let's move on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill of registration number 9638, for amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the social protection of military personnel, police officers and others, as well as an alternative bill with registration number 9638-1. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:55:06]] For 297 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, I'm putting forward a proposal in line with the decision of the Conciliation Council and the Committee to determine the bill as an urgent matter, shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of the consideration of the matter and consider today at the meeting. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:55:40]] For 298 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:56:01]] For the 250. Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, two for, two for, or against the speech of colleagues? With the performances. Please, Beggar Mariana Volodymyrna. After that, the author of an alternative bill by Zadumkov Dmitry Aleksandrovich. Mariano Volodymyrically, you have four minutes because you are both from the committee and from the authors. I get it right, don't I? And then two, yes, two, yes, and we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u21	The National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee, under the authority of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, reviewed the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening the social protection of members of the military, police and other persons submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine to Arabia and other Ukrainian national deputies, and the alternative draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on specific issues of financial security and social protection for military personnel, police officers and others under registration number 9638 and 9638-1. Accordingly, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include bills for registration numbers 9638, 9638-1 in the agenda of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. In accordance with article 101 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Law on Registration 9638 is urgent and shortens the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills by half. Thank you. And as a result of the first reading of the draft Law on Registration Number 9638, the committee was tasked with drafting a bill that took into account amendments and proposals of the subject of the legislative initiative, shortening the deadline for the submission of such amendments and proposals by half, and introducing it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a second reading. According to the first reading of the draft Law of Registration 9638-1, reject. Dear colleagues, I'm not going to spend all four minutes of my schedule because the bill is simple and complicated at the same time. It's about increasing social protection for both military and police personnel, it's a workable decision by an interfractional working group that deals with the issues of both the next. Some nuances about vacations, about payments to military personnel, and they also contain different technical and legal norms. This is the result of Parliament's consistent work on social protection in the security and defence sector. Therefore, the request to support and allow for the development of second reading in the same joint work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u22	Thank you. Thank you, Mariana Volodymyr. The word is given to the national deputy Dmitry Alexanderovich. Please. And then, colleagues, two in favor, two in favor, and we're going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u23	Fellows, first of all, I'd like to welcome you all to the festival. I'd like to welcome our Armed Forces on behalf of you. I would like to remind you all that the authors of the basic bill, when our "Smart Politics" team returned 30,000 supplements to the military, told you that there was no money for it, that it was unnecessary for an army, that it was populism, that it didn't have to be paid to those driven out of state, that it would cost billions of dollars, and then they took it, realized that there was no other option, and they returned it. There is no Cabinet of Faith. There's a lot of right things here, both mainly in alternative bills. That's true. But let's let Parliament control the government's actions. A government that buys summer jackets like winter. A government that buys and burys money in the road. A government that buys apples and potatoes at several times the price. Let's make sure the government takes to the Supreme Council a bill that we'll establish, how much our protector should receive, where all his benefits will be secured, where it can't be changed in the history of what some minister will come out and say, I've been asked by the military to take their wages, because I'm not enough for a new Mercedes. Let's make sure the army gets what it deserves -- good security, respect and support. With Independence Day!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u24	Please sign up for the performance: two for, two for the opposite. Please, Kostenko, Voice. Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u25	Samantha Bobrowski, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u26	Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u27	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Glory to Ukraine! And welcome everyone to the festival. And I'm very sorry that people who went to parliament 30 years ago still don't sing an anthem on their 32nd anniversary. But these are the details. You know, today we're voting on a bill that's very important, it's about the social support of people who are captured from civilian life. But I want to remind you that when Parliament voted 9342, a bill that actually took two months to help regulate the construction of payments to our military personnel was finally born, which today did not come to Parliament, was born by a decree. But it's a very interesting story. Today, we do not actually have payments for June, nor for July, nor for versers, nor for those who are qualified, nor for those who are injured today in the hospital. What's more, we've completely lost a chain of instructors who have an extra 50 to 30,000 dollars to pay for them. That's what Kabmin forgot. And what's interesting is the story, i.e. Kabmin forbids us to go abroad, but Kabin completely ignores, closes his eyes, doesn't read the law that the Supreme Council adopts. I think it's embarrassing. I really wanted to see Minister Reznikov and the whole government on that day and ask these questions. And it's probably time for us to go back an hour of questions to the government, if that's what's going on in this room in a sudden and stupid way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u28	Please, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u29	Thank you. With the celebration of all the pro-Ukrainian. And please give the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u30	Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I'm sure "European Solidarity" will support the bill, which is arranged for payment to members of the Protection, Civil Protection Service, the police, who have disappeared under the circumstances of wartime. But at the same time, I want to pay attention to the following. Parliament votes in favour of the army, and the government does not. You and I have passed a bill, this is Law 9342, which has been paid to students, termists, instructors, wounded, outlawed -- none of these categories of military personnel have been paid for three months. By disregarding the laws of Ukraine, the government has not developed appropriate regulations. We still don't have any regulations on instructors at all. And all of this goes to parliament, and that's what the military officers are asking us, and why you voted, and there's no payoff. We are officially addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, and this speech is a parliamentary request to the government. Where are the regulations on payments to classmates, termists, instructors, injured persons, those who are out of state? When will these payments be made? And it's time to return the "hour of questions to the government," the responsibility of a government that is engaged in corruption, which is time to steal from soldiers, but there is no time to exercise its powers. We also insist that the order of the Cabal be issued in the hall and that a bill be made public to pay all the military personnel. We now have complaints that those soldiers who are near Nicopol, in the Sumerian direction, where they do battle orders every day, don't get paid, they don't get those 30 payments, they only get the goal of 20,000. That's not fair. And that's why, you know, good laws can be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u32	Please give the word to the National Foreigner. She's passing the speedboat. Yeah? You?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u33	Ruslan Alexiyovich, thank you, give Frost a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u34	Please, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, strengthening the social protection of military and law enforcement personnel is one of the most important tasks of the Ukrainian Parliament. The bill focuses on improving payment mechanisms for unused vacation days, paying one-time aid in the discharge of military service, and paying money to citizens who have disappeared have been captured. There are categories such as military personnel, members of the military and civil protection service, and police officers. The initiative envisages saving money at the last place of service. Appropriate payments may be paid to the families of the persons listed. In addition, payments are made to military and police personnel for unused vacation days, unused days, as well as in the event of their death, as well as the payment of one - time financial assistance when they are released from military service. The Ukrainian Liberation Group systematically advocates for strengthening the social support of our defenders and their families. We're the co-authors of this project and we're going to vote for it. Thank you for your attention. Everyone with today's holiday is welcomed by the "Deliverance of Ukraine" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u36	Thank you. Fatherland, please. Julia Volodymyrna. Yes, now, after Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I want to bring us back to the realization that the parents of the Ukrainian nation, who gave us this independence in the 91st year, practically ripped it out of their throats into the enemy, made their right. And today our soldiers, our army, our heroes and our heroes have chosen our right to live. And I don't know any more sacred duty than today's entire power team -- both Parliament and the President and the government -- just to invent everything that Ukraine can do for our heroes, heroes, for their families, for their children, for their happy lives, to protect their lives, to put them on their feet after the injury. And what I can say, knowing the situation in hospitals, in hospitals, in the front, in the back, where families who sent their loved ones to the front do not do enough today to give our heroes their dues. Not enough! You and I can't break the proper Veterans Protection Act. Why? You know that all the veteran organizations have asked Parliament to review the bill they tabled and make it fair. Why can't we send enough money for hospital treatment today so that the hospital doesn't have a deficit to treat our wounded? Why can't you even make enough money to feed them in hospitals to get enough prosthetics? Return to life and serve as heroes, just as they serve us.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u38	Please, two more people. This is Pauline and Speedy. Then we vote. Please, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich and Krachod Anna Konstantinovna later. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainian people, first of all, I welcome everyone and everyone with today's celebration, with the day of independence of our country, with the day of independence of Ukraine. Today, no doubt every defender, military officer, law-enforcement officer, border guard, special appointee, anyone who today with arms defends the Ukrainian state is waiting for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the government, not just the warm words of greeting from all authorities, but waiting for concrete, clear decisions aimed at protecting the state, protecting the military service, to become the number one priority for everyone who works in the government today. That's why today's bill is an important step, another step in Parliament to make every military officer feel that there's protection in the back, that his family is thought of and protected in their jobs by national MPs. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u40	Please, Ana Constantine's Speedboat. Dear colleagues, after this speech, we are voting for this very important bill. I ask the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. Please, Anna Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! An important bill has been drafted by a working group. I hope that by the second reading we will correct some standards to make them more real before they are implemented. But there are many issues not to the Supreme Council, but to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which unfortunately cannot properly implement the laws that are adopted by the Supreme Council, does not provide a proper decision to enforce the laws adopted by the Supreme Council. And that's a big problem because we're improving the lives of our military, but unfortunately, this improvement is impossible because of the abnormal work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So there's also a lot of questions about social services that, in their own way, treat the execution of certain legislative acts, and that's why there's a lot of questions going on here before we actually, on the one hand, adopt positive laws, and on the other hand, they don't execute and the military don't get what they're supposed to get.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote for these laws. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening social protection for military personnel, police and some other persons (registration number 9638). Colleagues ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:14:02]] For 335 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading. Please vote. [[13:14:28]] For 303 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill (there will be only one amendment and we vote), Bill 5707. I'm asking you to take a seat. This is the draft Law on Lawmaking. Dear colleagues, as I understand it, will be amended to confirm 1087. David Georgievich Arahami, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u43	Comrades, good afternoon. Amendment 1087, please, does not support the fact that there is an incompatibility with other legislative initiatives. So please don't support me. And then we'll continue to support the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u44	The committee doesn't object, in principle, to such a thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u45	Yes, the committee does not object.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u46	Okay. Dear colleagues, I'm making an amendment to 1087. David Georgiyovich Arahami says that this amendment should not be supported. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[13:15:43]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the draft Law on Legal Activities (registration number 5707) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:16:21]] For 291 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Thank you. I'm out of procedure. Who's out of the procedure? Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, as you know, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has created a temporary commission of inquiry into corruption in purchases. The topic is very topical and important, and it is very correct if this commission is legitimate, if there are representatives of all political factions and groups. Our faction was delegated to this commission by Vladimir Ariev. And we ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put the Parliament on the table for the introduction of our representative to this TSC. That's all, Mr. Ruslan. Mr. Ruslan, I appeal to you from our faction. There is a decision by the regulatory committee that supported the delegation of Vladimir Ariev to the TSC, led by Mr. We ask that this question now be put to the vote. The military is demanding that Parliament resume its control functions to control procurement and corruption in the military. And we ask that this TSC be legitimate, not its own. Please put it in now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u48	What's the number of this decision, please? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, they say yesterday this decision was rejected, I just wasn't there. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, come on. I can invite the chairman of the Kalchenk Regulatory Committee to explain the situation before it is all done.? Please, Calchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u49	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, was put to the vote yesterday and found no support in the hall. That's why this project is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, thank you. Let's move on. The next order is 9617. This is a draft decree for the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the development of the basic principles of public policy regarding the interaction with the national movements of small and indigenous peoples of the Russian Federation (register No. 9617). I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:19:00]] For 243 Decision taken. Will you please discuss this with me, colleagues? Discussing it, huh? Dear colleagues, are we the ones who voted briefly? Because I already did. I'm sorry. We voted for a brief discussion. Then I invite you: two in, two in, two in. Or reports? Two in, two in. All right, I'd like to invite national deputy Jurchino Jaroslav Romanović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce to you the initiative that was actually supported by all factions, by sending their candidates to membership, I hope, shortly by members of the Temporary Special Commission, whose key objective is to form a concept of policy on the enslaved peoples, or in the legal configuration of the small and indigenous peoples of the so-called Russian Federation. It is very important for us to help these peoples to maximize their sovereignty, to which they have the full right under international instruments to regulate the United Nations. And the key story is that when our famous Armed Forces come to the borders of 91st, they will free the entire sovereign territory of Ukraine, we will go to the borders of the states with which we have an adequate relationship in international law. Who are they, of course, will determine those nations and ethnic groups. But it is very important for us to help understand the whole world, and therefore I am very grateful to the leaders of parliamentary assemblies, parliamentary groups in PARJE and the OSCE for joining this commission not only in Ukraine, but also in our partners we need to form an understanding that deliberate disintegration, probably the so-called Russia, is the same way that once happened to the prison of the peoples, with the Soviet Union. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u52	Thank you, Your Honor. Please give the floor to Calchenk Sergio Vitaliyovich, head of the Rules Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u53	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Welcome to the festival, the Day of Our Independence, which was restored 32 years ago. Regarding the draft Decision with registration number 9617, our regulatory committee at its meeting on 21 August reviewed the draft decision, made a number of observations to the draft and proposed amendments to the conclusions of the committee for the project. The initiator of this draft decree, Jaroslav Romanovich Jurchisin, at the meeting, agreed with the committee’s proposals. So the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Decree No. 9617 and determine how to vote on it, taking into account the comments made in the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us go two, two, against this bill. People's deputies, factions and groups please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u55	"Serve of the People," Gevko Volodymir Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Mikiti Poturayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u57	Mikita Ruslanovich Poturayev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the day Ukraine renewed independence is an important day. But was Ukraine alone colonially dependent on Moscow? No, it's not. Many nations with centuries of history of statehood and independence, and sovereignty were occupied, were annexed by Moscow -- it's an independent Crimean society, it's the Central Asian states, it's the nations that are now deprived of statehood, independence, sovereignty, language-free, culture-free. Who, in any case, today will be supported by millions of people who live in anticipation of liberation from the regime that turns them into mancures that leave them without historical memory. It is Ukraine, I think, that must play the first role in this process. Please support the creation of a temporary special commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u59	Thank you. Andrew Volodymyrovich Parubius. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u60	The empire must die. And as long as Russia is an empire, it threatens Ukraine and the world. Even after winning the battlefield, it is impossible to control its territory and to denaciate and demilitarize it, as did Nazi Germany, simply because of geography. The only way to dismantle the empire is to destroy it from the inside. National movements have already destroyed the Russian Empire twice, in 1918 and 1991. And it is the national movement that can become the force behind the military success of Ukraine that will launch the dismantling mechanism of the so-called Russian Federation. Yes, these hands are still weak. Yes, representatives of the peoples of Russia are fighting Ukraine. But remember, 40 years ago, the Ukrainian movement was weak, and Ukrainians were also cannon meat for the empire. If they are weak, they need to be helped to grow stronger. And it's real. The main thing is to form a systematic state policy to interact with these movements. That's what the TSC is doing. We need to establish interaction with the peoples of Russia by working on mechanisms to strengthen their identity, develop their media, political, social structures, and national military formations in our Armed Forces. This interaction will not only help to destroy the empire but will be the foundation of Ukraine’s future relationship with these national democratic states. And of course, we need to change the position of Western partners so that they don't repeat the mistakes of 1918 or 1991 and finally support the peoples of Moscow in a fair fight for freedom. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u61	Heroic glory! "The Voice," Jurchishin Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u62	Once again, I would like to stress that we really need to start working on the concept of policy on interaction with the enslaved peoples of Russia. Well, I want to finish the speech with the prophetic words of Johar Dudajov: "Russia will disappear when the Ukrainian sun rises."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u63	Thank you. "Platform for Life and Peace", Yuri Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u64	Honorable colleagues, the presiding officer, are now armed with many of the small indigenous peoples of the Russian Federation fighting and fighting for Ukrainian independence. But not only for their Ukrainian independence, they are now fighting, and they are also fighting for their freedom. That is why we are obliged to do our utmost to support and help every indigenous other nation that is now in the territory of the Russian Federation to gain the will, to gain freedom, to become an independent state. The prison must be destroyed. That is why I hope that the special commission that we are supporting will work out the necessary action plan for us to live with the new states that will emerge in the territory of the Russian Federation. Because the victory of Ukraine is the victory of many Russians. Glory to Ukraine! Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u65	"Fatherhood," Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, one minute, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, it is symbolic that on this very day we are considering the creation of such a temporary special commission. I don't think I'm going to say any historical fact, if we remember that there's no Russian Federation neighbour country that doesn't require the return of its original territories, starting in the Far East, Japan, ending in Finland. In fact, this country is a invader country. But, as always, she did so by enslaveing her own peoples and throwing these nations into the carnage of world wars. That's why this committee has to be created and the result is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u67	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt, as a whole, a proposal to take into account the proposals of the Committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision 9617 on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the development of the basic principles of public policy on the interaction with the national movements of the small and indigenous peoples of the Russian Federation. Please vote. [[13:31:02]] For 264 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Next bill. Oh, I'm sorry, it's a turn-on. Stealth. Ustinova's on her way. The "ES" and "Voice" factions have taken a break. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention very much to what we voted before the TSC vote, Bill 5707. Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker has not given me, in violation of the Rules, to place on confirmation an order, and I want you all to hear it, especially the committee heads. This amendment says that now before registering a bill, if it's a code or an original bill, you have to write the concept of this bill and present it to the committee. So I really want you to know that, because now we're going to have to write concepts, present them on a committee, but then we're going to be allowed to register these bills. Unfortunately, Mr. Stefanchuk did not give it to me for confirmation of the violation of the Rules. I'm reading this paper: "The concept of a draft code or primary law is presented by the subject of a legislative initiative at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which, according to the subject matter of committee disclosure, is the main preparation for the preliminary consideration of such a bill." First of all, I have a question, how do we know which committee we're going to present this in. Because very often we think it's going to fall into one committee and it's going to get into another. Secondly, if, let's say, for the sake of opposition, they just won't be brought to the table, so we can't register the bills now? I would very much like for us not to have a breach of the Rules in the future, and Mr. Speaker has given us the right to confirm the rights of all MPs, including the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u69	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko is a procedure. Only by procedure, Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u70	Thank you. And I will ask you not to comment, though you are the first of the equal, but of the same equal MP as you are, your honourable lord-in-chief. Dear colleagues, the Head of the Supreme Council, began our session by urging all to observe safe rules. Our faction, as you know, always adheres to all the arrangements: whether it's the TSC, whether it's security issues, or other issues, and it's the other colleagues, whether it's Mr. Motovilovitz, or it's the representatives, unfortunately, of the Fatherland, who have already provided information about today's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I, Alexei Honcharenko, Jaroslav Železniak will be saving the costs of the "Council" channel, which shows only the Presidency and the "servants," and we start informing about today's parliamentary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u71	Thank you. It's not a procedure, but. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko is a replica. It was a faction's memory, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u72	Yes, a faction of Fatherland was mentioned. I want to point out that one of the colleagues actually posted the post. But he did not post for today’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u73	Shall we move on or will the "Serve of the People" answer as well? No, it's not. Okay. Let's go to the next bill for registration number 6119. It's the first reading. Draft Act on State control of compliance with the requirements of legislation when providing social support. I suggest you consider this question. No discussion, okay? Okay. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:34:59]] For 205 Decision taken. Let's do two, two, against, please sign up. Kuznitsov, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u74	I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u75	Third-year-old?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u76	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u77	Yes, please, Galina Mikolayevna Trelyyakowa.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact this bill would have to be adopted not on a holiday day, but when we had fires in Kharkiv and in houses that kept the elderly. In fact, in order for our state to have those who control the provision and the quality of the provision of social services that are uncontrollablely provided today, this bill must be adopted. We have to take care of those who are kept in us both in boarding houses and in special facilities, those to whom we provide palliative patients, who we provide social services. Today, this function is uncontrollable. I would very much like to support this bill, even though NAZK has stated that it has discretionary, corruption risks, and discretionary powers of the NSS. At the same time, we will fix it for a second reading. The bill was a long time ago, it was provided by the Ministry of Social Policy. Please be supportive. We are able to overcome these discretionary risks and finally control the provision of social services to our Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u79	Thank you. "Platform for Life and Peace." Joff. Yuri Pavlenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that this bill could have been adopted earlier when the National Social Service was created, because we have this kind of pseudo-organism that doesn't know what to do, doesn't know what to do, and in fact all the legislative initiatives taken by the Ministry of Social Policy show complete misunderstanding by the active leadership of the Ministry of Social Policy, and what it is is a social policy that social policy is primarily to help and protect the person, especially the person who needs this protection and is in difficult circumstances of life. Instead, the ministry produces new and new legislative initiatives that reinforce control, increase humiliation, and increase the impact on people. Instead of protecting, the ministry wants to control more and more, losing the basic essence of social policy -- human protection. Unfortunately, this is very vivid in the policy that the Ministry is demonstrating regarding the protection of the rights of the child. There is a complete misunderstanding as to what the primary level of social assistance is. Where children live, they have to be helped, and children now live in the community. Today we have a situation of uncontrolled violation of the rights of the child and no authority in the state, primarily the Ministry of Social Policy, which is responsible, does not protect, does not help and, most importantly, does not see those children who today need the protection and support of the Ukrainian State. Unfortunately, the same ministry also demonstrates in terms of veterans, members of the fighting that go back to the community. We are, of course, voting in favour of this bill, and at the same time, I am calling attention to the inaction of today's Ministry of Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u81	Please, European Solidarity, Nicolac. Yeah? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Welcome to Independence Day. Today I want to pay tribute and thanks to our defenders and protectors for having a free country, we have every new day and we have this holiday. Independence is in one word the whole story of the great struggle of the Ukrainian people for the right to be a free nation. And now this right is being fought in a bloody war. Russia has stolen our peaceful life, but we will not give it our future and the decent life of our children in a free sovereign country. You know, every Ukrainian today knows what it's like to wait for a family of captives, to know what it's like to wait for loved ones from the front, to know what it's like to protect, to hate, to lose faith, but to find the strength to fight on. Someone in Ukraine, someone abroad, and someone in temporarily occupied territories. And one of our main tasks is to ensure that the social support system works, because it's about the survival of low-income families, single mothers and pensioners, all those who receive state aid. The social protection system, especially in times of war, should work effectively, transparently and purposefully in every corner of Ukraine and in every community. Our faction of European Solidarity can only support this bill once all the corruption factors present in the text are removed. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u83	Heroic glory! Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u84	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies! I want to take a position on this bill. The head of the Committee for Social Policy and Veterans' Rights has in principle made it very clear about the risks and I support the need to control some kind of social assistance. But is that the way? State social services were created. The question is: Why? And so far this bill has come up, by the way, which the Cabinet of Ministers would only have to call off because there's a conclusion of NAZK about corruption and other risks. What I'm saying here is that the current leadership of Minnesota has nothing to do with this bill. I'm just suing them: why didn't they initiate the recall? This bill in this way cannot be voted on. For the second reading, if you can work on it, it's a different story. The best option would be to recall it, to prepare a new one, because there is actually a need to control the provision of social services, but so that this service doesn't turn into another controller who will go to check who receives subsidies and social assistance. And there (attention!) It is written that this service has the right to suspend the granting of subsidies and other social assistance. Do you want to vote for that? The Fatherland faction does not support such a position. I would like to emphasize once again, let's get the authors back to work, let them prepare a quality document, and we'll support it in the committee and then in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u85	Thank you, dear colleagues, thank you very much. We discussed this bill. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the Committee's proposals, the draft Law on State control of compliance with the requirements of legislation when providing social support. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:44:24]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to send for the rereading of the first reading. Please, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the proposal is to send Bill 6119 to read again. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:44:59]] For 209 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to send the authors for work. Let's back up, dear fellows. There is a proposal to send the Bill to 6,119 authors, the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. [[13:45:29]] For 234 Decision taken. Bill 6119 was sent to the subject of the legislative initiative. Out of procedure, please, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, especially I am now addressing Mr. Motovilovac, we see that Bill 6119 was failed twice during the vote. I hope the "ministers of the people" won't say that "European solidarity" did it. We're 27, you're 250, and all the laws that vote or not in the session room are your responsibility, because you're a majority. Yesterday, "European Solidarity" was avenged for not voting on the Critical Infrastructure Act and not including our colleague Vladimir Ariev in the TSC.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u87	Please tell me what you're in for. Please turn off the microphone, let's move on. Next Bill 9453. [[B in m in s a l in]] Brainy, please, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u88	Ruslan Alexiyovich, good afternoon again. Dear colleagues, I understand, it's a great holiday. We have this very important question, and there was no other day like Independence Day. This is Decree 9347: report of the Temporary Investigation Commission on the agrarian Academy of Sciences. As far as I'm concerned, there's no representative of Gunka's "Serves of the People," but if we want to look at it on Independence Day, if you think it's a very important question, a report from the commission that's currently on criminal matters, then maybe we should bring it up? Then let's listen to Mr. Gunk and everyone else, but. If it's already been decided by a majority to consider it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u89	So what's the offer? Are you suggesting that we change the order of the day and move on to consideration 9347? It's in its place, I think. But I'm going to make an offer to raise, change the order of the agenda: 9347 raise and come to its consideration now. Please vote. Considering the importance, said Dmitri Alexandrovich. [[13:47:58]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. Let's go to 9453. This is a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the proportional calculation of the insurance system for persons working outside Ukraine. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:48:31]] For 263 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:48:51]] For 225 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, two in favor, two in favour, against, can we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Galino Mikolayevno, will you report on this bill? Dear colleagues! Is the Deputy Minister of Social Policy the Prophet Hanna Vasilevna? Please. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u90	Mr. Head, the presidency, the national deputies, members of the government and present in this room! First of all, I welcome all of us with a great holiday -- the 32nd year of Ukraine's independence. Allow me to present the draft Law on Registration 9453 of 3 July this year, which was initiated by the Ministry of Social Policy and introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This draft act aims to resolve some of the issues that are now available in the context of the payment of pensions to Ukrainian citizens. First of all, this is a question of not being able to count the work that was done in foreign states while our Ukrainian citizens were working there. Another is the inability to restore the payment of Ukrainian citizens' pensions, who have been residing in temporarily occupied territories and have now moved to Ukraine's controlled territory. Another problem that will be solved with the adoption of this bill is the removal of the lack of legislative conditions for the payment of pensions for periods of temporary stay abroad. Thus, the draft act proposes to include in internships, insurance or military service during periods of employment, these services outside Ukraine. It is also proposed to do so under the conditions of existing international treaties ratified by Ukraine, as well as in States with which there are no such agreements to determine the right to a pension to take into account the internships acquired in those States in accordance with their legislation. It's to have the right to pay for such a pension. It is also proposed not to include periods of insurance and military service as of February 19, 2014. [[Unheard]] In illegal bodies formed in temporarily occupied areas of Ukraine. It is also suggested that the mechanism for restoring pensions be simplified for those who have moved from the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. It is proposed to pay pensions to persons who are temporarily living outside Ukraine for the current accounts found in the institutions of banks located in the territory of Ukraine, provided that by December 31 each year personal identification is made available.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u91	Thank you. Please give the word to Galina Mikolayevna Trelyakowi. Please, Galina Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely important bill. The committee has decided to support him and I ask everyone to vote for him. First of all, it allows our people, pensioners who are abroad, to verify in consular institutions. It's impossible today. And the pensioner who is abroad is forced to come to Ukraine to confirm that the pension is actually coming to a person who is still alive today. In addition, this bill allows for verification through, remotely, the web portal of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, which we now have extremely quality administration of a large number of social services, public services that we provide to the State. It also has a political aspect. You know that Russia has unilaterally cut out with us an insurance agreement. And that's why this bill clearly says that the insurance internship, especially the military personnel who served in the Russian Federation or the aggressor, is supposed to be there, not in our pension fund in Ukraine. I ask you to support, like the entire committee, this bill, to adopt it in the first reading, and then we'll work on the committee and we'll take it as a basis. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two in favour, two in opposition to this bill. Please, Gerus Andrey Mihajlovich, "Serve of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u94	Please pass the word to Galina Trelyakowi.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u95	Galina Mikolayovna Tretlyakova, please give you the floor. From the rostrum, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u96	My colleagues, once again, I ask everyone to concentrate and already in the process of two, two, against which we must carry out this bill and not fail it. It's about our pensioners who are abroad. He says that the one who served in the Russian Federation in the military is to be enrolled in Russia. I have a strong request to vote unanimously in favour of this bill. In the hall, of course, the holiday mood. These two bills, and the previous one that we failed, are aimed at protecting the Ukrainians, protecting the previous one, and protecting it as a social service. You know what the big procedure is now to move it and rework it. We're making it worse for our Ukrainians. Please, this is the first reading. Anyone who wants to make any changes to the bill, our committee is working very hard. Request to concentrate and accept this bill in the first reading. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u97	Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Tsimbaluk, "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u98	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. It goes on and on and on and on. Dear colleagues, a vital and necessary bill. He was born because of the problems of human citizens in Ukraine. He was prepared by experts and the Pension Fund and the Ministry of Social Protection, and we also made proposals on the committee. It doesn't completely solve all the problems, but partly those categories that were named here and the head of the committee, and others, it still defines. Russia hammished even those who worked in that area, and unilaterally broke the deal in January months, ceasing and paying pensions to those citizens who earned it there, and confirming their internship. And the employees of the Pension Fund can't help the citizens who have reached retirement age here today, we have in Ukraine. Including the question of how to confirm that a citizen has gone abroad and is entitled, I mean to the European Union, to other states, and has the right to receive a pension. This bill also deals with this issue. Asking him to support him in his first reading. I invite everyone to work on the second reading by amending it, because there are actually other issues that can be addressed by this legislation. But once again, there's a request to shorten the term, a consideration of this bill, because there's actually a very large number of people who can't get pensions because there's no legislation, because that's a challenge that the Ukrainian social system has never faced before. We vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u99	Thank you. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u100	Please pass the word to a colleague of Sofia Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u101	Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u102	"European Solidarity" will support this bill in the first reading, but I would like to highlight a few important points, especially because today we have a day of restoration of Ukrainian independence. In particular, our pension system needs to be radically rethinked, just as a rethink needs the work of national MPs who don't even want to hear what this bill is about. Because it's very important when we talk about our citizens, their needs, their pensions, to remember that independence is not just about puffos and embroidery, it's about dignity, trust and responsibility. And if we don't respect worthy citizens, I'm sorry, a pension of 2,500, while some officials have a million dollars a month, that's insane and that's not right for our citizens. On trust, the state has to protect its citizens, and citizens have to be sure that the state is behind them, not the abuses that retirees are going through in pension funds, and the way officials are now generally allowed to communicate with people. This is about responsibility and, in particular, about national MPs who need to understand and know the needs of their fellow citizens, not to engage in various lobbying, as we often see in our hall. Because, as Lena Kostenko said, because who and we are talking about independence, that's why it's so hard for us. And if we're talking about independence, it has to be the same thing as transparency, about openness, about the power of the Ukrainian state in helping and supporting its citizens. Today, for God's sake, this bill will be passed in the first reading. But let us keep in mind when we adopt each of the bills that we are all hired by the people of Ukraine to work as officials, and we must do our utmost to make sure that people live better in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this issue, we're going to vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats, please. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the proportional calculation of insurance for persons who worked outside Ukraine (registration number 9453). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:01:04]] For 259. Decision taken. I'm proposing to shorten the deadline for the second reading of amendments. I'm proposing to shorten the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 9453. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:01:39]] For 225 The solution. Well, I don't think so, dear colleagues. Let's move on, question 0218. 0218 is a draft of the Act on. I can't hear you. Ivanna Orestovna, please. From the procedure? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u104	Dear Mr. Head, I would like to ask you today to ensure that you read the requests, since we are approaching the conclusion of the session, and it is essential that all the requests registered by the Ukrainian National Deputies (by the way, some of them were registered a few months ago and have not yet been read) be read in the Hall today. I hope that we can count on the quality of the work of the presidency of the Supreme Council to ensure that this right is exercised by every national MP to request and receive an answer. Please provide this work today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the following bill 0218: draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol between I heard you. Draft Act on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the operation of rail transport (Registration No. 0218). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[14:03:40]] For 225 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please give the floor to the deputy. Can we do so without discussion, fellow believers? 2 in, 2 in, 2 in. Please sign in. Dear colleagues, please give the floor to the Deputy Minister for the Development of Communities, Territories and Infrastructure of Ukraine to the Chamber of Anatolia Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u106	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. Welcome to the festival, with the restoration of Ukraine's independence. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Moldova on the operation of rail transport is before you. On April 27, the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Moldova to Amend the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Rail Transport was signed in Kiev and Chisinau. The Protocol provides for amendments and additions to the Agreement, such as the proposed redrafting of article 9, paragraph 3, of the Agreement. This will allow for unstoppable rail transports across Ukraine between the Frickace-Etulija crossings and Renie-Jurjuleste. In both directions, when the point of departure and destination are located in the territories of different states, sides or territories of another State. When unloading goods, goods, and moving railways from Ukraine and at the point of entry during Ukraine’s first exit, it is also on imports of goods, goods, moving warehouses into Ukraine at the point of entry at the point of entry into Ukraine. The advantages of the Protocol's changes are to increase the capacity of the Rhine-Jujuleste to meet at least twice, also allowing us to significantly increase the volume of goods transported to Constance port, Romania, for the export of our goods, including grain. And the total reduction in delivery time is going to be 3 days. The implementation of the protocol does not require funding from state budgets but from local budgets. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u107	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy Network Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! This bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation. We supported this bill virtually unanimously. The importance of this project is linked to the need for increased economic cooperation and communication with the Republic of Moldova. That is to say, the ratification of this treaty will also contribute to the economic development of relations between our countries and to the overall resolution of important trade issues. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u109	Please give the word Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u110	Please pass the word to Alexia Hotcharenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u111	Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u112	Alexei Hotcharenko. "European Solidarity." I welcome everyone to Independence Day! Do you know what I don't like? That we have some government independent of Parliament. Honorable Government Representative! Honorable Government Representative! Honorable Government Representative! Honorable Government Representative!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u113	Alexiyyovich, he's talking to the deputy of your faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u114	Well, with all due respect, I'm addressing you. No, not from my faction. I'm on my way, I'm on my way. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm addressing, well, I'm addressing a government representative. We don't see the government here at all. We don't see any government officials coming. The program says "Veepremier", the VP doesn't exist either. And if there is an intercessor, at least listen, please speak, I ask you to do so. And my next performance. We've got the Railroad today, we're talking about the rail ratification. The cruiser is actually the back of Ukraine today, the blood system, it's the only way that people can get from one part of the country to another, and the military, and all of them. And I'm addressing you to the government, please consider the issue and raise your wages at Ukrzalznice. Today, the leader's salary is a pitiful few thousand dollars. It's impossible to live on. They're people who drive under fire, they're people who help the wounded, they're people who help those who drive, internally displaced. In our government there are drums, there are serial costs instead of giving money to a soldier, a railwayman. I demand that the government come to the Supreme Council, because we have so many questions to ask the government! And one of these questions is the Crossroads, because today we say: The day of independence, our independence is going on at the Crossroads today, and we're spitting on these people in reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues. The only thing I'd like to point out is that when you called on the government, the government representative just spoke to a representative of your faction. Your faction. I don't know when you got kicked out of your co-head faction. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next up, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction. Please, Julia Leonidina Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u116	Klimenko, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, we will certainly vote in favour of this bill, ratify this agreement, but I also want to pay attention to the Ministry (I don't know what it's called now) The Ministry of Reconstruction and the Ministry of Finance, under which the customs office is located, as well as the border guards. The situation at the border is a disgrace! Shame on everyone who wants to go back to Ukraine. Because people who come to the Krakowets crossing and see a completely dark area with scattered metal objects, without toilets, or dead toilets, turn around and go back to Europe. So, honourable colleagues, of course, if we want to get our citizens back, start not only by moving our citizens abroad, but also from the beautiful, good return of the points where people come in -- and they realize that they're coming home, and they're going back to a normal, European country. So please ask the Ministry of Finance and the customs office that owns these border crossings, crossing points, to do a reconstruction there, and we control that. And transfer either to the Ministry of Infrastructure, or somewhere where these points can be reconstructed. Shame on Ukraine’s moving points! Shame! Because it's a facade of Ukraine, and it's terrible. We'll vote for the ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u117	Please, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we have no objection to this draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A decision is important, a decision in time. And we're proposing to vote, not artificially prolonging time, using speeches to discuss any subject, but not essentially the bill under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u119	Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u120	Thank you, Mr. Head. I believe that the activity of rail transport between Ukraine and Moldova can be of a certain period and strategic nature. And then, I ask you to support the prescribed Law on Ratification and to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Very important ratification, very important. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law ratifying the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the operation of rail transport (registration No. 0218). I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[14:13:40]] For the 250. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Out of procedure, please, Alexeiyovich Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u122	Dear Mr. Speaker, I'm addressing you now. During my speech from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, a colleague approached me, saying that if a member of the government had presented a bill, he would no longer have to listen to anyone and nothing. I don't understand why we're sitting here. A government representative has arrived. I think the government representative is here to listen to the debate on the issue, not just to present his position, to hear what the national MPs are saying. Or did he just come to put up a twig? I ask you, Mr. Speaker, please call on government representatives to take into account and respect the Ukrainian Parliament because we are a parliamentary-presidential state. And respect for Parliament is respect for the Ukrainian people, and the government has to remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u123	Alexiyyovich, I'd love to call on all of these questions, but I've seen a government official communicate very warmly with a substitute head, with the co-head of your faction. I think your position as a faction, it was very powerfully represented. You can't say, I didn't say the name or the name of the faction. Thank you. Let's move on. 0219 is a draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on readmission. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[14:15:32]] For 213 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. Discussing, of course. Arthur Volodymyrovich, everything as it should be, everything as per the Rules. Please give the floor to Drapti Bogdan Evgenovich, deputy minister of the interior affairs of Ukraine. Please, Bogdan Eugenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u124	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished members of the presidency, national MPs, Ukrainian people, with the festival, with the Day of Independence of Ukraine! Your opinion is proposed to consider the draft Ukrainian law on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on readmission (Registration No. 0219), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The draft law proposes to halt the operation of the listed intergovernmental agreement with the aggressor state of Russia on 22 October 2012, ratified by Ukraine's law of 5 June 2013, in view of the radical change in circumstances and the failure to implement the agreement through Russia's full-scale war against Ukraine and the dissolution of diplomatic relations. Through an act of unprecedented armed aggression by Russia against Ukraine and once again in flagrant violation of a number of international legal acts, such as the United Nations Statute, the Final Act of the Council on Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Memorandum on Security Guarantees in connection with Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and Other Fundamental International Law Acts, Russia has demonstrated its complete failure to act on the basis of values and principles of international law. Appropriately bringing the treaty base into line with today's conditions corresponds to the national interests of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u125	Thank you, Your Honor. Please give the floor to the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation Network Alexander Alexandrovich. Please, Alexandre Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, at its meeting on 24 August 2023, discussed the draft Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers bill on the suspension of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the readmission and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft be accepted as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals for its text. I quote, "Article 10 of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Readmission." End of quote. So, honourable colleagues, please support the committee's decision and adopt the proposed bill as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two for, two for, of course. Please, Bujansky Maxim Arkadyovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, my statement for the content. Let's vote and support this without too much talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u129	Thank you. Please give the floor to National Deputy Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u130	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u131	Princess, please, Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear friends, I would like to point out that we are not denunciation of this agreement, but we are actually suspending it indefinitely. Obviously that's what we need to do and obviously that European Solidarity will vote for it because it's hard to talk about the possibility of readmission when there's really no borders when some of our regions and areas are occupied, including the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. What kind of readmission can we talk about? I would've denounced this deal in the first place, but we're stopping, we're suspending. It's a good thing we're doing this on Independence Day. It's a bad thing that we haven't adopted a whole bunch of other laws before this independence, because we need to stop everything that ties us to the aggressor country. Our Humanitarian Decolonization Act has not been adopted, where it was first defined as a Russian measure that would allow this genocidal practice to be condemned by an international tribunal. Apparently, we've been collecting signatures here today, no laws have been passed against the activities of the Russian Church in Ukraine, and it's still in effect. So these steps that we are doing today are obviously necessary, but as long as we continue to exist in the country of Russian Peace, while we continue to have a Russian church that is openly fighting with Ukrainians, which is actually the weapons of the FSB and the Russian army, which continues to undermine Ukrainian society, and you, your fellow Russian colleagues, do not want to take this to the hall and vote, no matter how long we are going to be pulling the denunciation or suspending these agreements in one way or another, irrespective of this "Russian Peace" and the Russian Army and our enemy will still be present in Ukraine. To win, we must act decisively and systematically. And "European Solidarity" requires immediate consideration of laws prohibiting the Russian Church in Ukraine, banning "Russian Peace" and other decolonization laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u133	The word is given to the national deputy Nemiri Grigori Mikhailovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u134	Thank you, Mr. Head. And unfortunately, I have to say, you've been misled. You've been promised a large package that would include a list of all the laws that still bind us to the Russian Federation, to the aggressor country, you've been promised the same thing as the SND countries, but none of them are now. The mountain gave birth to a mouse. Today we will consider, in addition to this Exodus Law, an end. on readmission, two more with the Russian Federation, which relates to HIV/AIDS co-operation, and that's all. Another SND. So I'd like to ask you a question first. To appeal to you and from Parliament to the Cabinet of Ministers, particularly to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for how many months, how many years, must the decade go by for the Ukrainian Parliament to be on the full list of comprehensive bilateral agreements that still link Ukraine to the Russian Federation, the aggressor country? How long does it take for the Ukrainian Parliament to be on a comprehensive list of SND agreements? It's not just disrespect, it's irresponsible, and I view it as sabotage. Because it can hold back, which can hold back, which prevents the Cabinet of Ministers from finally submitting such a list? I want to express the hope that at the first session of Parliament, at the opening of a new session in September, we will finally see this list. If that's not the case, I think we need to ask questions about the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, Platform for Life and Peace. Dear colleagues, after that we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u136	Dear Mr. Head, my dear colleagues, I cannot agree with the calls that even on Independence Day come from the Supreme Council's rostrum to strengthen internal opposition, opposition between Ukrainian citizens. I agree with this bill, and I propose to vote for it, and I urge the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately prepare all agreements with the aggressor state, with the so-called Russian Federation to break down, suspend, or any other form that would demonstrate the Cabinet of Ministers, which in Ukraine has been guilty for more than a year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u137	Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm making an offer. Please, people's deputies, come into the hall after all. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the proposal of the Committee and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on readmission (project registration No. 0219). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:25:20]] For 253 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, next bill 0220. This is a draft law on the withdrawal from the SND State Cooperation Agreement in the creation, use and development of an interstate network of information and marketing centres for the promotion of goods and services to national markets. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Please, I'm considering a reduced procedure, please. [[14:26:11]] For 216 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? I invite Deputy Minister of Economy of Ukraine, Fomenko Igor Alexanderovich, to present this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u138	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! With Ukraine's Independence Day, first. You are considering a draft Ukrainian law on the withdrawal from the SND States Cooperation Agreement in the creation, use and development of an interstate network of information and marketing centres for the promotion of goods and services to national markets. The deal is made on 21.05. In 2010, ratified by the Ukrainian Act of 06.07.2011 No. 3593-VI. Today, the agreement has become effective for Belarus, Russia, Tajikistan, Ukraine. Since 2014, Ukraine has reduced its representation in the higher SND authorities and has not signed any decisions that have been considered within the SND bodies, including the implementation of the agreement. The draft law is drafted in accordance with article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. The draft law proposes to withdraw from the treaty, taking into account the Russian Federation’s involvement in the illegal use of force against Ukraine, its sovereignty, territorial integrity in internationally recognized borders; the involvement of the Republic of Belarus in the illegal use of force against Ukraine, particularly since 24.02.2022, Russia’s military aggression, using territory, airspace and transportation infrastructure of the Republic of Belarus, the United Nations General Assembly Resolution of 02.03. 2022 No. ES-11/1 "Aggression against Ukraine". The draft law is designed to create the legal basis for Ukraine's withdrawal from the agreement, which corresponds to the current state of relations with the countries parties to the agreement, in order to implement the internal state procedures necessary for the termination of the agreement. Please support the draft agreement. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u139	Heroim Slava! Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Ms.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation at its meeting discussed the draft Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' draft law on the termination of the agreement on the cooperation of SND member states in the creation, use and development of an interstate network of information and marketing centres for the promotion of goods and services to national markets and recommended that it be accepted as a basis and generally with regard to technical legal rights. The agreement is based on Russia's military aggression against Ukraine, its sovereignty and territorial integrity, and Belarus' involvement in the illegal use of force against our State, the need to ensure that the damage and damage caused by Ukraine are countered by the spread of negative information influences, including coordinated dissemination of misinformation and other information operations by the Russian Federation, which in turn will prevent new threats to national interests and national security. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not, in its conclusion, deny the possibility of its adoption. So please support the decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation and adopt this draft Ukrainian law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u141	Thank you. Please sign two in, two in, and no. Shvačko, "Slut of the People". Venislavski? Please, Fedor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u142	Respectful colleagues surely need to break all the agreements that link us to a country that denies our nationality. That's why we vote yes. And the faction of the political party "Serial of the People" will definitely support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u143	Thank you. Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u144	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u145	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, at the last meeting, and now Parliament is meeting twice a month, the head of the Supreme Council has been proud to say that on Independence Day, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is denunciation of all agreements with the aggressor country, with its satellites, such as Belarus, and with the SND. We heard this promise from another man in the country, yes, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And what do we see today? It was only in the morning that the International Policy Committee met and voted on its knees that this decision was made, because only these three denunciations had been made by the government. The government doesn't do its job at all. I would like to point out that the government has still not developed legal instruments on payments to students, termists, trainers, injured persons, not in the government of time. There's no time in the government to go back to "the hour of questions to the government." And our presidency has no time to read out requests from Ukrainian national deputies. "European solidarity" insists that today's questions be answered, because among them there are questions about our dead. I want to remind you that 2.5 thousand members of our faction and parties of different levels are at war on the front, dead and wounded. And among the questions is, for example, the request for the Babach Globe, we also ask for social justice for our heroes. We demand that the government denounce all half a thousand of these ratifications, which were made up of the Russian Federation, Belarus, and the SND countries, and start doing their jobs. And today is due to end, Parliamentary, by making inquiries. We're talking to Mr. Korneyenka, Mrs. Condratuk and Mr. Stefanchuk, do your job. Instead of directing us here, you have to do your duty to read the questions. Like a man who.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u147	Let's go to the vote. I am betting on the vote to adopt the proposal on the basis and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law of Registration No. 0220 on the exit from the SND States Cooperation Agreement in the creation, use and development of an inter-State network of information and marketing centres for the promotion of goods and services to national markets. Please vote. [[14:34:10]] For 249 Decision taken. The factions. The following issue is the day-to-day registration number 0221: draft Act on the termination of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the field of prevention of the spread of the disease caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-infection). No discussion? Okay. At the request of the European Solidarity faction, we are having a discussion. Please make an offer to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[14:35:02]] For 209 Decision taken. Please invite Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine Slobodanko Marina Konstantinovna to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, allow me first of all to welcome you to today's holiday with our country's Independence Day. Today, just 32 years as Ukraine has chosen the path of a free state, and 10 years as we pay for it with life and blood. Every day we lose our soldiers, our civilians, our children. Ukrainians lose their health and life each day for their choice to be independent and to go to the European Union and to be European. We pay for this with our life, with our loved ones, and with our family. And when we pay that price, we can't afford that the agreements made with the aggressor country, the countries that are friendly to the aggressor country, remain valid among our state. So I ask you to consider and support the draft Ukrainian law on the termination of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the field of prevention of the spread of the disease caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-infection). This agreement was concluded in 2003, and the time has come to stop it. Such agreements, the Ministry of Health and Government, have already initiated eight termination agreements. So this process is going on. And if, with your permission, two more termination agreements are to be cancelled today, I would like to support them. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u149	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Alexander Alexandrovich Netezko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u150	Dear friends, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation at its meeting discussed the draft Ukrainian Cabinet Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the field of prevention of the spread of the disease caused by the Human Immunodeficiency (HIV-Infection) virus and recommended its acceptance as a basis and as a whole, taking into account technical legal rights. The termination of the agreement will strengthen the package of measures to protect Ukraine’s national interests, independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. The explanatory note to the draft law signed by the Ukrainian Minister of Health states that implementation of the law does not require funding from government and/or local budgets. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion does not, in general, deny the possibility of adopting a bill. So please support the decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation and adopt the prescribed draft law on the basis and in general with regard to technical legal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u151	Please sign up: two in, two in. Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u152	Please give the word to Ivanni Orestovni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u153	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, in fact, there have already been repeated calls from the government for a full package of documents to denunciation the entire treaty base with the Russian Federation. We see how the government meets the requirements of not only the MPs, but also the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and taps us in one agreement. Obviously, we will support this denunciation in order to break up that web of pseudo-agreements that certainly do not protect our citizens in any way with the country that destroys our people that destroys our state. But it is precisely as the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we could and should do everything today to look at the bills that would finally stop the Russian FSB instrument, the Russian Federation pole in the territory of Ukraine, that is, the Moscow Church. And it pains me very much that, unfortunately, the majority that could have gone to the point of bringing these issues into the agenda didn't support all of the proposals, either "European Solidarity" or "The Voice." Colleagues, we have a responsibility to protect our independence and not to give this pain, this blood, and these sufferings to our children. Therefore, we must do our utmost to separate ourselves from the horde in this room and stop it with all possible means for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u155	Please, Servant of the People, Greenchuck Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u156	Please pass the word to Sergio Stépi.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u157	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u158	I think it's time to break this deal. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u159	Thank you. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u160	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Once again, I welcome all of us with the celebration of independence. We wish each other victory in Ukraine and peace in our homes. The question is quite clear. We'll vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u161	Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose to vote the proposal to adopt, on the basis and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on Registration No. 0221, on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the field of Prevention of the spread of the disease caused by the Human Immunodeficiency (HIV-Infection) virus. Please vote. [[14:42:12]] For 246 Decision taken. The factions. The following issue is the day-to-day issue: draft Decision No. 9347, on the Report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of corruption in public enterprises, institutions and organizations of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine on the work done in six months of its activities. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[14:42:49]] For 178. Decision taken. Request to register: two in, two in, two in. I invite you to represent the national MP, Gunk Anatoly Grigorovich. In the absence of a reporter, please register: two for, two for, and two for the discussion. Where we all know, unfortunately. God damn it, no one gets in there for the reasons he got in. Please, Savrasov Maxim Vitaliovich. Alexei Hotcharenko? Please. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u162	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, I'm here for those who can see us at night because at other times they don't show, because we're likened to horror movies and adults, in principle, this time it fits. We are now looking at the report of the interim commission of inquiry led by Mr. Gunko, the "Serve of the People", who is now in the SISO. So, he's got such a hard time working as a temporary investigative committee, that now the investigation is going on about him. You know, I think we're going to have to set up a temporary commission of inquiry to study the activities of the temporary commission of inquiry. Actually, my friends, this has turned into a temporary job study. And yet another testimony to this was the mere masterpieces of words that we heard yesterday from a voice very similar to the giant of the Zacarpathian democracy, to our star, Nicholas Tishchenka. I hope Mr. Mikola here will take a line and explain now, because there's another temporary tracking commission to fight the Cole Centers. Yes, Mr. Nicholas or the voice is very much like him, or as he says, neuromergetic, maybe it's neuromergetic, she says I want 50, I want a restaurant in Prague, where to put it, but the main thing is to keep it constant, that's what the constant is. I understand that there was a constant of 10, 15, 20, and now there are constant problems, and everyone is looking, I'm looking, from our majority, at a constant where they can. Gunko was looking for a constant at the agrarian academy, Tishenko was looking for a constant, he was looking in the woods for something, he found something, he didn't find it, he's looking for a constant at the colossal centers. Guys, how long is this going to take? Well, that's just bullying.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u163	Thank you. Is there going to be a line? It doesn't, does it? We're not going to give artificial intelligence a replica. Please, who's next? Homenko, Servant of the People. Olena Homenko. Don't you tell anyone? Okay. "Platform.", Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would very much like to have everyone present in the hall, because I have one proposal to vote on. The fact of the matter is that the commission is now discredited by the commission’s chairman. I cannot continue to be on this committee as Ukraine's national deputy, especially since the legitimacy of its decision will be questioned in society. Therefore, according to the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigators and Temporary Special Commissions, this is part two of the second part of article 22, which stipulates that in a report from the Commission, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can make three decisions, one of which is to suspend the commission's mandate. Therefore, I am proposing that this interim commission of inquiry be suspended in connection with the discrediting of this commission by Hunk’s head. And I ask you to vote and close this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u165	Sergey Vitaliovich Calchenko, may I have your comment? We now have two suggestions to put in order of arrival, or how?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u166	No, there's a draft decision on the report. And although the commission was formed for a year, if Parliament does not now adopt this resolution on the report, its activity is already terminated.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-24-m0.u167	Okay. Then I would like to propose to vote a proposal to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft regulation on the report of this commission, the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of corruption in public enterprises, in the institutions and organizations of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine on the work done in six months of its activities (registration No. 9347). Please vote. [[14:48:33]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Report rejected. Dear colleagues, by factions. The agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. I announce a recess in our plenary session. The time and place of its continuation will be notified in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. In unity, our strength. We'll win together. With the world. Glory to Ukraine!
