ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Honorable Ukrainian National Deputies, according to our decision. I'd like you to take your seats, dear colleagues. Please take your seats, everyone. Take your seats. In accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today, we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, before continuing the plenary session, I stress the need for sustained compliance with security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the non-proliferation of information today regarding the opening of the plenary session, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than 12 hours 30 minutes or after the conclusion of our meeting. Please take the responsibility of all colleagues to ensure the security of the single legislative body of our nation. In the event of an air alarm, there will be a pause in the plenary and we all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies and Visitors to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also participates: Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, General Valeriy Fedorovich Zaluzny, military officers of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Security Service of Ukraine, the State Border Service of Ukraine, the National Guard of Ukraine. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Members of the families of the dead soldiers of Ukraine are present. [[Applause]] As well as the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Attorney-General, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine and his deputies, heads of diplomatic representations of foreign states and heads of representatives of international organizations accredited in Ukraine, as well as other officials. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to parliamentary tradition, I invite you to perform the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 27 years ago there was one of the most important historical events in our country: on June 28, 1996, at 9 p.m., 18 minutes after nearly 24 hours of continuous and fruitful work, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, expressing the sovereign will of the Ukrainian people, adopted the Constitution of Ukraine, which was of paramount importance for the development of the Ukrainian State. This is the most important day for us to recall the drafting process of the Constitution of Ukraine, to mention the authors and all those who were involved in its adoption by Parliament. The adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine demonstrated the worldwide gravity of Ukrainian civil and legal traditions from the Constitution of Philip Orlik in 1710, the Constitution of the Ukrainian People’s Republic in 1918, and to the present Constitution. All of these documents, despite their differences over several hundred years, laid the foundation for two key categories — human rights and freedoms. And today, every citizen with his hard work and every soldier in the field of battle, protecting not only our state, freedom and the future of his own children, but all European nations prove that rights and freedoms are our greatest value. Congratulations to all of you on the Day of the Constitution! It is an honour to bring the Constitution of Ukraine to the Assembly Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are invited to the floor by the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine! With those words, "Glory to Ukraine!" Our heroes, our brave heroes, the brave Ukrainians on the front look into the enemy's eyes, decently, confidently, stubbornly defend their lives for Ukraine, give their lives for Ukraine. Thanks to these words, the whole world hears and knows that here, in Europe, on the eastern flank of our continent has set up a global center of courage that will never allow for the destruction of our freedom and our own, and our allies and partners. And it's an honor to say these words, "Glory to Ukraine!".. [[Applause]] It is an honor to be Ukrainian, an honor to gain glory for Ukraine, and it is an honor that obliges, obliges to win and build Ukraine’s victory. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] And we will do it, all together, every one and every one who fights and works for our nation, for the sake of our people, we will do it. Millions of Ukrainians and Ukrainians, modern generations of our people, whose history has blessed the opportunity to realize the dreams of Ukrainian heroes of different times who fought for freedom and independence for Ukraine and for justice for all of us, for all of us Ukrainians. Everything is in our hands now, and Ukraine will be a victorious state. [[Applause]] Dear Ukrainian people, all present in this Hall, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Our nation’s courage has earned moral leadership for Ukraine, which inspires and unites the nations of the world. The Ukrainian desire to live freely and heroism of our people has cleansed human values of age - old filth, cynicism, and cowardice. Various nations have joined us in the fight for freedom and not just because the world loves the brave. Whether the peace of the nations of the world and whether humanity prevails on earth now depends on how we end this war and on whether the lives of the victorious Ukrainians will be established, just as the struggle for it is confirmed, just as we have shown that courage gives freedom. We're going to prove that freedom is a success, we're going to do it with Ukrainian axiom: freedom is a success. That's what convinces me the most: success. This is what our entire earth needs, everyone and everyone, all our people, all parts of Ukraine, all the children of Ukraine. But in order for this to happen, the Ukrainian state needs a transformation, and we're going to make the transformation that the Ukrainians dreamed of. And I want to quote now the words of a Ukrainian soldier called Maxim Nagorny. He was born in 2004, an orphan, serving Ukraine in the 14th Mechanized Brigade of Prince Roman the Great. Maxim said, "I witnessed the terrible things that I wanted to forget and not to mention, to erase from memory just as I did yesterday of this bloody war. But what happens tomorrow? You don't have to rebuild the old system. We're creating a new and much better Ukraine." [[Applause]] And these words of the Ukrainian soldier Nagorny deserve our support. 27 years ago, the Constitution of our State was adopted in this Hall in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I welcome you today to the Day of the Constitution of Ukraine, our beautiful Ukraine, which still preserves its free soul and guides its people. [[Applause]] In 27 years, Ukraine has undergone two revolutions and has preserved democracy and Europeanism. Eight years of hybrid warfare in Donbas and Ukraine preserved dignity and faith in the future. 490 days of full-scale Russian aggression — 490 days. And each of our soldiers, all of us, all of our people believe in the Ukrainian future and are already deciding what they want to see their future. As the Constitution lays the foundations, we need doctrines for our state, a clear, unsettled, bold doctrine for Ukraine, which goes to victory and for Ukraine to win. This doctrine must answer all fundamental questions about Ukraine and our future and ourselves, and our neighbors, and everyone in the world. We need a new system, new rules, new possibilities. Regrettably, for a very long time, the State institutions in Ukraine and representatives of the State have treated our people and life in Ukraine in general as cruel, disrespectful and predatory, to say the least, as bad stepmothers or as in an orphanage from which they simply want to escape. Because of poverty, corruption, and injustice in Ukraine, the world unfortunately did not notice our courage and our love. When the world was talking about Ukraine, it was more like, you know, about the state institutions and the facts of life in our country that required correction, not about heroes, heroes who deserved to be followed. Before this Russian-Ukrainian war, we were on the path of change. On February 24, 22nd, Russia was trying not only to kill our independence and not only to erase our identity, but also to destroy our example, an example that a state of scale like Ukraine and such a complex history as Ukraine can move towards success, to become a strong and prosperous democracy that convinces other peoples of the region and the world to live freely, not in subjection to anyone. [[Applause]] Russia loses in all its efforts, and it's no longer a dream, it's a reality. And even now, despite the war, we continue to follow the course of change. And I am confident that the first day of peace after this war, the first day of our well-deserved victory, will be the first day of Ukraine's subsequent rapid transformation, the foundation of our lives with you, our institutions, economic practices, social habits, politics and everydayness. What we can't change right now in terms of war, we're going to change in the process of our recovery, our transformation. We will create a new and much stronger Ukraine. Dear Ukrainian people, which will be the winning Ukraine, let's define all of them together, just as we defend freedom and independence together, that will be fair. The Ukrainian Constitution establishes that the President of Ukraine is the guarantor of national sovereignty, the territorial integrity of Ukraine and the observance of the Constitution of Ukraine, human rights and freedoms and citizens. The President of Ukraine is the guarantor of the strategic European and Euro-Atlantic course of our nation. To implement these norms of the Constitution of Ukraine, I would like to propose today to discuss, national discussion, the basics, the basics of the future Ukrainian doctrine. We need a common vision of what to be Ukraine's victory. And before we have Statehood Day, and then Independence Day, I think it's right that these days be viewed as stages for the work of Ukrainian doctrine. As a result of the discussion here, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in every community, in the media, on educational public and business sites of Ukraine, we will develop and then approve the text of the Ukrainian doctrine at the National Security and Defence Council. And most importantly, I want to go to our soldiers, our Ukrainian heroes of today's great generation, all Ukrainian soldiers, sailors, sergeants, seniors, officers, all generals, for the first time I ask everyone present on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to express my gratitude to all our heroes for a moment of applause. [[Applause]] The day before, I was in the position of our soldiers in Donetsk, Zaporozhye region. I spoke with the commanders, with the soldiers, and had the privilege of giving the prizes. It's a great honor. He had the honor of hugging our soldiers, exchanging emotions, thoughts. Currently, about a million of our people serve in Ukraine’s defence and security forces. There are hundreds of thousands of defenders and protectors fighting for us in the fighting brigades and other units, for Ukraine’s sake. And no one has the right to determine the fate of Ukraine without asking them, our heroes. And we're talking to our soldiers, we're reading them on social networks, we're seeing your aspirations, you're soldiers, you're on the front line. We see our soldiers know what they're fighting for. I ask everyone and everyone in Ukraine's defence and security forces to participate in our national debate on Ukrainian doctrine as much as it allows. Freedom is a child of indifference, and security is for us to take courage. Ukraine will be a country worthy of its heroes. [[Applause]] Dear Ukrainians and Ukrainians, today I propose to discuss and start a national discussion on Ukrainian doctrine five, I think, of the main orientations. These are directions that can be exposed to specific points that the nation will define as important. Thus, the five basic guidelines for the Ukrainian doctrine are for discussion. The first is the philosophy of our victory. The second is the globality of Ukrainian security. The third is hero policy. The fourth is a policy of justice. The fifth is transformations in 10 years, namely the new foreign policy, the new economy, the new relations between the state and society, the development of all our territories, education and science, the culture as a prerequisite and the summation of transformation, the level of security and freedom in Ukraine. Let's start with the main one, our victory. When we talk about the victory of Ukraine in this war, the war for freedom and independence, we say specifically that the victory of Ukraine is a liberation from the Russian occupation of all of our territory. [[Applause]] No part of Ukraine will be left to the enemy. Ukraine's victory is the expulsion from all over Ukraine of all Russian military formations, mercenaries and militants, and this is the return to Ukraine of all our people who were captured in Russian captivity or forcibly deported from Ukraine to Russian territory. Ukraine's victory is the restoration of Ukraine's sovereignty within the internationally recognized state borders of Ukraine without any restrictions on Ukraine's sovereign rights. Ukraine will choose alliances for itself and its future, obviously in the European Union, obviously in NATO. [[Applause]] We need to be aware that the path to victory is difficult. And now no one can say when we go through with it, but there has to be a national agreement on defining our victory. When the goal is clear, when the goal is just, it is not as important as the thorny course toward that goal. Ukraine will pass this path to victory, and this is no longer a dream – it is a reality. [[Applause]] Thanks to the successful protection against Russian colonial, imperialist aggression, Ukraine is constantly multiplying its moral capital, which is already the largest in over a thousand years' history of Ukrainian statehood. Our leadership is now influencing the global deployment of forces. The future architecture of global European and regional security is impossible without Ukraine's participation, Ukraine should and will be a co-worker, participant and guarantor of such security. Ukraine is already a protector and will be a guarantor of an international order based on rules. Thanks to Ukraine, the world has become convinced that rules are not just the spirit and the letter of the UN Statute, international treaties and conventions, but also the energy of nations willing to defend the spirit and the letter of international law. The existing international institutions are unable to secure international law, but during this war we created, along with our allies, with our partners defences, sanctions, financial, humanitarian coalitions, which fill a deficit of determination that is objectively existing at the global level. For example, Ramstein's format is as effective as possible – the interaction of more than 50 states to support our defense weapons. One of our defense coalitions is the Patriot Coalition, which has given everyone in the world visual evidence that any missile or aviation terror is going through. Thank you, partners. [[Applause]] The organization that we have created and is working effectively for the benefit of our state and all Ukrainians is the United 24. This format has allowed hundreds of thousands to be brought together from over hundreds of countries around the world to directly assist our country and people without mediation, international bureaucracy, drone purchases, humanitarian demining, reconstruction of homes, and the purchase of medical equipment. The main thing that gives the United24 is the opportunity to join any part of the world, the troubled world, people, businesses, public and humanitarian organizations. With two maritime export initiatives, Ukraine has demonstrated its impact on global food security. Russia has been blackmailing the world with hunger, and we know it, and it must be punished for it. Ukraine, together with its partners, launched the Black Sea Grain Initiative and the humanitarian initiative "Zerno of Ukraine", which brought back the food security of the world. [[Applause]] Price foresight, social security guarantees to dozens of countries and, above all, to Africa, Asia, 45 nations have received food through the Black Sea Grain Initiative. Its geography is from Spain to China, from Indonesia to Morocco, from India to Kenya. Let's give our farmers, our citizens, a round of applause. [[Applause]] Another of our humanitarian initiatives, the Grains of Ukraine, has brought together more than 30 states, which have helped to protect countries like Ethiopia, Somalia, Yemen and others today. Ukraine, which has been through the genocide of Holodomor, is particularly sensitive to the fact that the Kremlin is trying to exacerbate hunger for other nations. If it wasn't for Russian opposition now, our sea grain exports would be much bigger. And this will be because the world now knows that Ukraine, Ukraine, is a global food security guarantor for the world, Ukraine has proposed a formula for peace -- the only comprehensive and honest plan for overcoming both Russian aggression and all its consequences. The contents of the formula for peace and the formula in general correspond to the UN Statute and are supported by the UN General Assembly. More than 25 international instruments have declared support for the formula for peace, including statements and declarations by the Great Seven, the European Union, and the Council of Europe. [[Applause]] We are uniting the world’s vast majority. We are uniting the world’s majority in order to fully implement the formula for peace, and we are preparing a Global Peace Summit that will allow all nations of the world to demonstrate their leadership in the implementation of the formula. Why, though, has there been a lack of determination that will move us, together with allies and partners, to find ways to fill it? There are two reasons for this. Sadly, an aggressor is still present in organizations that must protect against aggression. In particular, it is the UN, where Russia is still allowed to influence one or the other and where Russia abuses the place of a permanent member of Radbez and the veto that has taken over the violation, by the way, of a violation of the UN Statute. Another reason. Sadly, some nations and world leaders still look to Russia in their own decisions. This can be called an absurd and shameful self - control of sovereignty, for the Ukrainians proved that Russia should not be feared. Russia loses when faced with bold and sure opposition. The free world has all the weapons, sanctions, political, economic, major, valuable advantages that allow you to build full protection against any Russian assault and blackmail. And it's not a dream anymore, it's a reality. My partners and I have already started building such a system of advantages. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to thank everyone in the world who supports our state for our struggle for freedom. The United States, Britain, the European Union, Japan, Australia, all the countries of Simka, all our friends and partners, our friends Poland, the Baltic States, most of the countries of the world, I thank you all. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Ukraine’s victory will lead to moral strength to modernize existing international institutions. We see the interest of different leaders and peoples, particularly in reforming the UN's Radbeg, this should be done on a fair basis. We see that the coalitions and approaches we have worked to overcome, to overcome Russian aggression and its consequences, working for Ukraine, to end other wars and to remove from the face of the earth the sleeping sources of destruction and death, the so-called frozen conflicts. Any frozen conflict is a war, it's a war that's bound to start, and it's only a matter of when, and how many lives it takes. Therefore, peace must be honest. This is the kind of peace that the Ukrainian formula for peace provides. And that's why the Ukrainian formula for peace is universally beneficial: Ukraine will never agree to any of the options of the frozen conflict -- none. [[Applause]] On the contrary, Ukraine will help us with our formula for peace to all other nations of the world who want true just peace. Ukraine has always done and will bet on alliances. Russia views all its neighbors as slaves and enemies. Obviously the world is and will be on our side. Ukraine is likely to intensify and strengthen its partnerships and alliances. And we have historically strengthened the European Union. [[Applause]] And we've given the European Union the kind of power that the European Union has never seen. Every postulate for which the European Union has been created is now working as long as possible. European values have never been as effective as they are now. The Ukrainian component is what the European Union lacked. [[Applause]] And we understand, and everyone there understands that this is no longer a dream, it's a reality. [[Applause]] Ukraine has become a candidate for accession to the European Union. This year we have to open a dialogue on full membership, Ukraine is ready to do so. And we all have to view the European Union for Ukraine not only as a valuable and economic union, but as a security for Ukraine. The European Union is economic and institutional security for Ukraine. And Ukraine for the European Union is a factor of integration. The same will be true of NATO. And it's not a dream, it's a reality. We are now a recipient of security aid, but Ukraine's victory will be a security donor for our region, for all of Europe, for the whole world. And even now, Ukraine is a donor of moral strength, and everyone who actively cooperates with Ukraine becomes a co- advocate of international order and human values. In particular, in recent years NATO has had two fundamental weaknesses. First of all, there was doubt, because a real 5 article of the NATO Treaty would be working. And we all witnessed how the world doubted whether the Alliance would be able to protect the countries of the NATO eastern flank in the event of Russian aggression against them. Secondly, many in the world did not see or perceive NATO as a defensive alliance, ascribed to it by appropriate propaganda, some seemingly aggressive goals. Ukraine's entry into the Alliance is confidently eliminating these two NATO weaknesses. First. [[Applause]] First of all, there is no doubt that Ukraine is capable of protecting itself and its allies, the power of our security, including the security force of our neighbours. Secondly, everyone in the world has seen that Russia's war against Ukraine is unprovoked and criminal, seductive and genocideous. Ukraine's introduction to NATO will be a powerful signal to the world that this is the Alliance that protects and protects, and this is the Alliance that has the experience of the winners and the moral advantage of the winners, the winners in just defense. [[Applause]] All of NATO's eastern flank wants the United States, Germany, France or Britain to place their soldiers in Eastern Europe near Russia's borders. After the victory, Ukraine's allies will want our battle brigades to be placed on the land of our neighbours, because Ukraine is a country of power, and everyone sees it. [[Applause]] NATO will guarantee security for Ukraine, and our defence and security forces will guarantee security and protection for other NATO members. In order for this to become a reality, there is only one thing we need to do: that all of our partners in the Alliance stop looking at the Kremlin when they make their important decisions. Even Russia’s inner forces have ceased to look at the frail Kremlin’s master. [[Applause]] Putin’s madness led him to drive himself into a deaf bunker because of his weakness. So it is absurd to look at such an incompetent leader of such an incompetent state. [[Applause]] Ukraine’s victory will free the world from the problem of dangerous Russia. History proves that the loss of dictatorship is always an impetus to the spread of freedom. The Ukrainian victory is a guarantee of security and restoration of territorial integrity for Moldova. [[Applause]] Ukraine's victory is a historic opportunity for Georgia's integrity. [[Applause]] And it's a peaceful chance. Ukraine's victory is a new force for the entire South Caucasus. [[Applause]] The Ukrainian victory is the will and peace for Belarus. Moreover, the liberation from the Russian occupation of Crimea and the guaranteed safe Black Sea along with the defeat of racism will provide the necessary energy for the Balto Black Sea axis to work at the level of its real security, economic and cultural capabilities. [[Applause]] Ukraine's victory is a guarantee of security and protection against external manipulation, forceful or political for all Central Asia. Ukraine's victory is a chance for the Middle East to destabilize terror. Ukraine's victory is a guarantee that the cranes of Africa, from Libya to the Central African Republic, will stop robbing Russian heads. [[Applause]] What about Russia itself after our victory? I don't think the Ukrainians need to worry about the freedom of the Kremlin. The Ukrainian is only concerned that Russian rematchism will never again cross the border of our free state or threaten our free people, and we will ensure that. [[Applause]] As a full member of NATO, Ukraine will guarantee that peace and freedom will prevail everywhere in our region. And it would now be right for Russia to ask that Ukraine be admitted to NATO, because NATO members are defending themselves, not destroying them. NATO states are protecting the nations, not throwing themselves at neighbors to destroy their future. Russia as an aggressor knows that better than anyone. Russia, which is part of the age of rebellion and systemic weakness, as no one is interested in security on its internationally recognized borders, and so Russia is also interested in Ukraine, NATO. [[Applause]] It may not be visible to anyone, it's not only from Moscow or Waldai bunkers -- the whole world sees it. [[Applause]] Today's Russia and modern Russian statehood poses an existential threat to Ukraine and disregards any treaty whose strength is not strengthened by the power of available weapons to protect Ukraine. So no matter how the global agenda for Russia develops, Ukraine will have the necessary weapons to protect itself and its allies from any Russian violations of our sovereignty and the security of our people. Ukraine will have a sufficient number and quality of army, army and security forces to protect its sovereignty, its territory, its people, its allies. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Ukraine will have a strong defense industrial complex that will provide the needs of our army, our fleet, our air shield, and our security in cyberspace. It's very important. At the bottom of the Black Sea, there is already very strong evidence of Ukraine’s ability as a missile - producing state. The Neptuns are still armed in the 20th year, and they're clearly hitting targets. Now in a war like this, and yet we've actually created from scratch the production of low-cost artillery shells, our own cannons, we've restored the production of 122nd and 125th caliber and other calibres, we're starting to replace production from 152nd to 155th -- the Western standard, the Ukrainian cannons that were created now during this full-scale Russian aggression. Let's give all the people who did it a round of applause. [[Applause]] We thank them that it's not a dream, it's a reality again. The quality of Ukrainian cannons, its production of missiles, the production volume as long as we understand it's not enough, we still need global support for partners, but it'll be enough, we can do it. Ukraine has learned to build sea drones. We use them successfully. In general, the production of drones of different species is a sector that needs to become and become the most powerful in Europe. Everyone in the world who wants to be the best in this industry today, the modern industry, has to know that in Ukraine, this is the most comfortable, clear, specific orientation for public policy -- the necessary weapons systems, the PPOs, tanks, cannons, armory that partners provide -- we want to produce and localize in Ukraine. Our soldiers will always have guns. [[Applause]] And I propose this principle for Ukrainian doctrine, its global security component: not to expect from Russia, but to be prepared for any evil, so that any evil in Russia will always be sure that it will lose to Ukraine. [[Applause]] Never again is a key principle of Ukrainian doctrine in relation to Russia. Never again. [[Applause]] This includes the old spiritual dependence used by the aggressor to pressure our nation. Ukraine’s spiritual independence will be assured by a hundred percent. [[Applause]] And the strongest internal guarantor of the effectiveness of this principle of "never again" is our heroes, all who fight for Ukraine, everyone and everyone who gives and gives their lives for us with you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you now to honor the moment of silence the memory of all our heroes, heroes of various times, who fought for our freedom and independence of Ukraine. Please. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Dear protectors, dear protectors, dear relatives of our warriors! The Ukrainian State needs new principles of gratitude to you, thanks to all who fought in the war for freedom and independence of Ukraine. The invaluable experience of Ukrainian soldiers should be used effectively in the process of guaranteeing world real security. It sounds general, but it's being deciphered into completely specific elements of the hero policy that I'm proposing for the Ukrainian doctrine. Heroic politics. First. Our soldiers who want to continue serving the Ukrainian State and the people of Ukraine after the war can be confident that such a request will be made. The other one. Ukraine is now the only country in the world that has a successful experience of effective protection against full-scale aggression. Ukraine will have even more important, valuable experience. And we're developing a platform to export Ukrainian defence skills, practices, the actual experience of our heroes, the participation of Ukrainians and Ukrainians in peacekeeping missions, particularly under UN auspices, training international missions. These are tremendous opportunities for Ukraine and for our heroes. Third. Ukraine needs the principle of a new military education system. Ukrainian soldiers and all who train Ukrainian soldiers should know that real practice will be the foundation of a new Ukrainian military education. The state integrates, integrates training programs that have now shown their effectiveness, as well as the actual combat experience of our soldiers and sailors, sergeants, seniors, our generals officers in the military education system. Four. Already the world’s leaders are showing an interest in teaching in Ukraine in the military affairs of their future warriors, and this will certainly be one of the possibilities that will make Ukraine’s security impact truly global and global. Fifth. Ukraine needs the full integration of veterans into social and economic life. The heroes of our victory should be able to manifest themselves as the heroes of our transformation. The forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Nazis, our border guards, our spies, our special services heroes, our police -- all of them, the transformation of Ukrainian military education will provide for the possibility of our soldiers receiving a related civilian specialty. Six. The main principle of social work with the veterans of Ukraine of victory is equal to equal. The State must create such a system of support for our soldiers and our own soldiers, which will guarantee them that every emotion they have, every need of them, will be understood by man. Not just a person, but a person who helps them, because this person went through a war, went through a loss -- went through everything that needs to be understood to be effective in integrating veterans into social and economic life. Soldiers are the most effective helpers for other soldiers, our own soldiers are the most effective helpers for other native soldiers. Seven. Ukrainian hero policy requires a real national standard of indifference. [[Applause]] These are new requirements for construction, infrastructure, public space, transport, the social education system, business centres, requirements that allow everyone with war injuries to benefit from all the space and all the opportunities that everyone else has. Eight. Discernment has a psychological component, so the need for mental rehabilitation is the same as the need for physical rehabilitation. Ukraine must create the strongest rehabilitation sector in Europe. And this applies to both the construction of rehabilitation centres and the preparation of appropriate personnel. The state will help create the necessary number of jobs not only to ensure rehabilitation for our people, but also to enable us to become the global exporter of reconstruction and integration into the war for all, for all, who have gone through and suffered from war. All the world's best practices, all the most effective policies, all the decisions that would seem difficult or unusual to us, should be applied in Ukraine so that Ukrainians, all our citizens, Ukrainians, Ukrainians do not have to suffer the pain, the stress and the trauma of war. In particular, we have to finally legalize honestly for all who need it, cannabis-based drugs. [[Applause]] Relevant scientific research and controlled Ukrainian, Ukrainian production. Nine. Veterans in government service in Ukraine On the boards of various levels, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine it is an honor, an honor for the state to take veterans to work. It's an honor for any business to help veterans start their own business, it's an honor for the state, for every community, for every business association, for anyone who knows what it means to be in a war. And this must be not a dream, but a reality in Ukraine. [[Applause]] It's a huge, really, huge national task. And I'll be honest with you, in order to do this task faster and more qualitatively, the state is going to need help. And I'm asking our volunteers to help the state with this. I ask now to study the world's experience of economic and social integration, the rehabilitation of veterans, of appropriate state and municipal changes in the world so that Ukraine, our state of victory, can make the best of our troops for Ukraine. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you now to thank all Ukrainian volunteers, everyone and everyone for this extraordinary strength, for their reliability, for their historic contribution to the protection of Ukrainian freedom, to the protection of our lives, to the protection of our independence. Thank you. [[Applause]] And the tenth point of the hero policy that I propose to discuss in the creation of the Ukrainian doctrine is the culture of heroes, the memorialization of war and the experience of our victory, the creation of the Pantheon of Heroes and the National Military Cemetery, the creation of the National Museum of Russian-Ukrainian War and the system of local museums that honor the memory of war and preserve the experience of victory for the next generations of the Ukrainian people, the creative reflection of the experience of war, the export of our victory by means of culture, the creation of an official history of war, the definition of a national canon of war with Russia, the participants of war, the key events of war, the stages of war, the Russian crimes and the achievements of our Ukrainian resistance. A new cultural policy about our heroes of different times who fought for Ukraine's freedom and independence and the burial in Ukraine of all our heroes who are buried abroad. This is very important! [[Applause]] Ukraine will promote all forms of hero culture in Ukraine. I've stopped so thoroughly on hero politics for Ukraine's victory, because any inefficiency of this policy is going to rob us of moral sense, anything else that happens in our country, we have to make our hero policy as effective as possible. This has to do with justice policies in Ukraine. Justice is a requirement of number one, both everything in our state, for inner life and our state to the world. And I'll start with internal justice. During the days of the Dniprov district court in Kiev, he passed a sentence in the case of a brutal attack on Catherine Gandzük. On July 31, 2018, the attackers poured concentrated sulfuric acid on Catherine Gandzük. She died of terrible burns at the hospital on November 4, 2018. And her eternal memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] In the 19th and 20th years, the perpetrators of this crime were convicted. And now there's a verdict for the buyer and co-organizer of the attack. The court found them guilty and sentenced them to 10 years ’ imprisonment. We have to speak honestly, if not for the determined pressure and constant attention of society and friends of Catherine, if not for actions of a different nature, protests and calls for the punishment of the perpetrators of crime, justice would have been destroyed in the beginning. That's what the criminals were counting on. They were confident, as always, of impunity. And I am grateful to all who have fought for justice in this matter, to all those who have done what is right, to have legal judgments. But this was not to happen without public pressure. We have all seen the case of the former Head of the Supreme Court recently, the greed that discredits the judicial institution and the man who sows despair, humiliation, anger in Ukraine, and sow from the highest court. And there are other injustices that are insidious and simply dissipating, especially those that degrade our warriors. People give away their most precious lives, their health for the sake of the state, and state institutions, particularly the judiciary, the law enforcement agencies, must undergo a transformation that will ensure that our society is protected from injustice. The National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine has proposed to increase the responsibility of judges and other judicial officials for crimes in the field of justice and corruption. We suggest that we make it more stringent and the rules for checking the integrity of judges, including the use of a polygraph lie detector. We also have to add a new importance to the jury court as one of the peoples of the state. And all of this is already being prepared, I know, appropriate legislative initiatives. I ask you very much, the Honourable Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable deputies, to support this request for justice. [[Applause]] Now, as we define the parameters of our Ukrainian doctrine and the transformation of our state, we need to look at the policy of justice at the same level as the politics of Ukrainian victory, with the policy of security and with the politics of our heroes. Justice is such a social system that people want to live in Ukraine because they feel that their lives, their health, their work, their dignity, their desire for life, their desire for happiness, their family and the future are securely protected by reality, their real rights and their fair justice within a reasonable time frame. [[Applause]] The sense of justice in Ukraine should be the strongest in Europe, and we should do it. Yes, that's an ambitious goal, but Ukraine can make an ambitious everyday one. We need to find all necessary systemic solutions to satisfy Ukrainian thirst for justice. And now for the justice of another, in connection with the Russian-Ukrainian war. The issue of justice about war and genocide is never simple, but in this case, with Russian aggression against our freedom, the more the complexity and hesitation of the world over justice for Ukraine and the Ukrainians, the more, unfortunately, the more the rematching moods can become in various parts of the world. The irreparability of punishment is one of the main instruments of crime limitation, restriction. Just as he is able to work effectively within national jurisdictions, he will work in global relations, all Russian murderers, terrorists, executioners, should be responsible for what he has done against Ukrainians and Ukrainians. [[Applause]] Russia’s political and military leadership should not escape justice because they seem to have immunity as state leaders. They're not the leaders of the state, they're the bandits who took control of the state institutions of Russia, and they're completely out of this impunity and they're starting to terrorize the whole world. Every political bandit puts himself outside any customary international relationship and every asset that belongs to a terrorist state or any person in the circle of the President of the Russian Federation associated with Russia's system of domination must go to compensate for the damage to those for whom this war, for whom the aggressiveness of this reign has been turned by burned cities and villages, the loss of family and loved ones. And I am grateful to all in the world who accept Russian political and military leadership just as those who should end their careers at the hands of defendants in The Hague. [[Applause]] And Russian assets, as such, are to be frozen, confiscated and targeted to compensate for the damage caused by Russian aggression. Ukraine will do its utmost to ensure that a special tribunal on the crime of aggression by Russia against our state is created and worked effectively with criminals on the bench of defendants. [[Applause]] I would like to thank the International Criminal Court for the determination necessary to protect international law and humanity. The time will come when the international arrest warrants of Russian leaders and their associates will not be a sensation but simply a simple, just work tool of global justice. Because if it doesn't, other potential aggressors and other terrorist states will feel the same impunity as Russia. And our Ukrainian mission is, in particular, to create this historic precedent, a precedent for the responsibility of the aggressor for everything committed in war. Part of justice is the world’s true view of our war for freedom and independence, as well as of other pages of our history, which have been distorted by a formerly active form of totalitarian evil. The memory of all the victims of the Holocaust — the genocide of the Ukrainian people, as well as of all the victims of the deportations of the Crimean Tatar people — of all the victims of the Holocaust is a duty, a duty of the Ukrainian State. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all Ukrainian and international journalists, all of our Ukrainian, foreign historians, who are spreading the truth about this aggression, about Russia's war against Ukraine, about our lives and about justice for our people. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear Ukrainians! Ukrainians, dear Ukrainians! The fifth orientation for the Ukrainian doctrine that I would like to propose today is a transformation in 10 years. We have to go through a difficult but important path that other nations have traveled for decades, and that is true. Ukraine’s victory will have special attention, a special confidence in the world, and every expression of such attention and trust should be directed to the development of Ukraine and all aspects of life in our nation. First. A specific target for Ukraine’s GDP is a trillion dollars. Yes, a trillion dollars is a very, very, very high plank, very high. And it looks like it's unrealistic, but Ukraine's potential is capable of doing that. The other one. Ukraine’s victory will give up the idea that the work of Ukrainians and Ukrainians should be cheap. [[Applause]] Because it seems that the cheap work of our people was a competitive advantage for Ukraine. We aim to achieve a level of pay that could be defined by the formula: neighbours in the European Union plus 30 percent. This is a goal, a just goal for this war. Ukraine’s victory will pay the highest wage for skilled work and, therefore, for education. The government of Ukraine, the Deputy Prime Minister of Innovation team of Fedorov, is currently developing a program to seriously modernize Ukrainian education and stimulate the development of science in Ukraine. It's a very detailed program, it deserves attention, and it has a lot of decisions that merit discussion, and if our nation agrees, it's a nation's agreement on implementation. The education chapter of the Ukrainian doctrine should be as worked as possible, every stage of the educational process, all the elements that are important for education in Ukraine. A nation that wants to be a leader makes education a leader and makes education fair. We also have to say honestly that in today's world, the language of global cooperation is English, and that's true, it's the language of global business, global science and global communication. Ukraine's future, Ukraine's victory needs the spread of English so that Ukrainian interests spread to the world and our people gain our global opportunities for themselves and for Ukraine. And by the way, it was today that I introduced an appropriate legislative initiative on English in Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] We have the task of bringing home as many of our people as possible who have gone abroad. Thus, Ukraine needs as many new jobs as possible, which will be attractive to our people, to allow Ukraine to live more decently than in other nations. The transformation of each sector of the economy, of any social practice and of all spheres of government should answer the question: how many new jobs will Ukraine make a concrete decision, a concrete initiative. Four. Ukraine needs a new policy of supporting parenthood and childhood. The second and third children in the family are happiness, not limitations. And that's the kind of happiness that government policy should be working for. Ukraine will support parenthood at all stages. Ukraine will respect every family, do everything in its power to make the family upbringing of children a defining feature of raising children in Ukraine, our country not for the interns. [[Applause]] Ukrainian Action. The Ukrainian Action was a global example of social progress. We did it when no one believed that such a project -- a project to develop the capabilities of citizens and the whole state -- could work. But we've done this and over 19 million users in application. Hello! [[Applause]] And the absolute usefulness of the Operation. Ukraine is now the export product of our nation. We teach other peoples digitization based on our digitized services, based on our Action. And we're going to create another system -- Ukrainian Dream, a special application that will support everything that concerns parents and children; the services that parents need that children need. Development and education, security, and contact with the state. The dream will help you get equal to any other part of the world, and the use of artificial intelligence will help each child build their own unique educational path for success. Ukraine's digital transformation team presents this dream of ours in the fall. [[Applause]] Six. Protecting business is as important as protecting a worker and working to make real indicators of the well-being and development of an economy that is a dream. Ukraine must be a country of business and a country of work. Just as millions of our people in unity are now fighting and working for our victory, we have, after victory in unity, to work for Ukraine to be among the world's economic leaders. Economic leadership provides security. Anyone who creates new jobs in Ukraine creates a basis for the economic leadership of Ukraine. Ukraine’s victory will protect every person’s ability to work as hard as he wants. We need to modernize legislation on work. [[Applause]] Seven. Ukraine needs a new, rational tax agreement between the state and society, a real legalization of property. And I'm, frankly, a fan of tax cuts. But now, now, during this war and the apparent dependence of Ukraine on cooperation with financial donors, we cannot afford to lower ourselves. But when Ukraine wins, itself becomes a donor to the world, our level of opportunity will be higher. Reduced taxes should mean increased tax integrity. Digitalization offers tremendous opportunities to simplify customs tax relations and everyone else, where there is a meeting or any contact between a citizen and an official, between a business and an official. Our goal is tax-free, customs-free, automatic digital procedures. [[Applause]] The transformation is more than reconstruction, and of course, Ukraine will become the largest builder in Europe, the largest construction site. We need to rebuild hundreds of cities and villages, thousands of infrastructure objects, and hundreds of thousands of homes. This will give its impetus to the economy. But the main thing is that we have to forget our past as a raw material exporter. [[Applause]] Ukraine's victory is a country, a country with high added value, a country where regulations allow any business that is innovative in its fields, in its direction, and in which intellectual property is protected. Ukraine's victory is a country that exports security of services, experience, culture and generally the results of intellectual activity, technological products more than any raw material. Nine. Ukraine is a country where no one is called an oligarch, because all economic entities are equal before the law. Ukraine is interested in new technology businesses that will weigh more in the world market than any old raw material business. And objectively, we have a natural advantage, and these are our natural resources, including especially valuable to our modern metal and mineral industries, as lithium, as graphite. But the metallurgy in Ukraine has to be "green" to meet the current environmental standards of the European Union and not export-oriented raw materials. We will develop cooperation and economic relations with all global players, including India, Africa, Latin America, the Arab world, China, and everyone. Our energy potential allows Ukraine, Ukraine, to win as one of the guarantors of energy security for all of Europe. Our generation, especially the atom, needs the entire continent. But I would like us to support our energies, thank you for this winter. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Our country's mass priority is green generation and huge energy storage capabilities. We have to make the green energy potential of Ukraine the potential of real mass earnings for our people. Ukraine's victory is a state that has implemented pension reform. And that is what we really want, and we need it, and it has guaranteed all who work today worthy of future support. Only the existing solidarity pension system, the pension system is not enough, and you know it. And this feels like an absolute majority of our Ukrainian pensioners. I very much ask you, honourable deputies, to implement all of this, to realize the dream of Ukrainians. Ukraine’s victory will do its utmost to ensure that our older people, who are retired, have a higher standard of living. Ukraine’s victory will do its utmost to ensure that those who work today have a truly secure old age. [[Applause]] Ukrainian culture is an export sector and it is a sector that generates permanent and significant world attention to Ukraine. Ukraine needs that kind of view of the cultural field. Now the cultural sphere needs at least a percentage of GDP per year as a basic, basic level of survival. But it is clear that the branch has to be more ambitious. Ukrainian courage has indeed aroused the tremendous interest of people from all over the world in you, in the Ukrainians, in our cities and villages, every such interest is a great opportunity. Ukraine needs a new policy to protect public space in cities and communities that can be used as cultural space or to preserve some historical value. Ukraine needs a new museum’s memorial policy. We have an entire generation of Ukrainian splendor. Regrettably, museums are lost and existing museums do not fit the spirit and standards of the modern museum. Ukraine needs a new policy of books and books, writing and reading, translations for Ukraine, foreign books and dissemination in the world of Ukrainian language, Ukrainian book, book support, audio books, digital subscription services, rethinking our Ukrainian libraries. In fact, we have to ensure that the number of Ukrainian books, books for Ukrainians, books for Ukrainians, for Ukrainians all over the world is increasing. Ukraine needs a new film policy and the support of filmmaking. Ukrainians have to make films and the world has to make movies about Ukraine and Ukraine. And we all know what decisions are needed to do that. Ukraine needs a new policy of territory. For each region freed from Russian occupation, the region needs its very detailed, integrated visionary transformation policy at the same time. The new free Ukrainian Crimea, which is it? Could it become a new California Europe, a place that attracts talent, a cluster of modern technology companies, IT, creative industries and really modern hospitality, a Crimea that works for a year, not three months. The new free Donbas, what's he like? Will it be industrial? A new free Ukrainian title. What exactly will attract people to go live on this part of our beautiful country? Herson, Kramatorsk, Zaporozhye, Kupyansk, Melitopol, Mariupol — what will be the new life in these cities of Ukraine, the cities of victory? And that's a very serious question. And we have to answer them and answer them together. For each of our regions, for each of our cities, every community needs its own vision. Obviously, Odessa is not just a global port. Obviously. Apparently, Kharkiv is more than just a phorpe of freedom on the eastern border of Europe. Obviously. But Odessa and Kharkiv deserve to be among European leaders. And Ukraine needs a new policy for these cities, for all of our cities, for Kharkiv and for the new policy, for Odessa's sake. Apparently, Kharkiv will be a fortress of freedom and power, but on the eastern flank, yes, on the eastern border of Europe. But what will make Kharkiv one of the cities of European leaders? Clearly, Dnipro, Lviv, Uzhgorod, Kyiv, and other Ukrainian cities were given not only new problems during this war but also new opportunities, and how the state can help cities to realize these opportunities. It's very important. I ask everyone to be very specific in the debate on the transformation of Ukraine. Internal security. Russian aggression has shown what safety standards are needed for life. The availability of shelters is maximum – schools with shelters, hospitals with shelters, houses with shelters. Ukrainians will trust specific things that provide specific security. In Ukraine, they have to learn security from childhood. He's a neighbor. Yes, it is. Every adult Ukrainian needs to know the basics of first home care. Physical culture and sports education are not entertainment today, yes, it is one of the pillars of security, because it is human health, the health of the nation, the strength of Ukrainians and Ukrainians. And, above all, give these opportunities: active parks for active people, more opportunities for children, different applications for application, but very specific, specific programs. We have to settle the issue of the weapons that are and will be in our people's hands, that's a fact. [[Applause]] The question is contradictory for our society, as it is for everyone, and for any other democratic society, but the answer has to be reflected in the Ukrainian doctrine in very specific things. Exchange is one of the biggest challenges for Ukraine. But we know what to do. The world has technology, Ukrainian needs, our partners know all this. And although it is often said that the exchange of the entire territory of Ukraine, which is unfortunately polluted by the mines of the Russian war, will take decades, we know that there is an opportunity to do it faster than years, but faster. Daily security. Of course, in society there is a wide variety of views on the use of surveillance cameras on the streets and roads, on the automatic, analytical capabilities of monitoring systems. But it is obvious that they will allow for a reduction in crime and crime, road deaths, and street incidents. And that's what we need. Opposition to domestic violence is an important direction in which, unfortunately, there has been an increase in domestic violence and especially during this time. Minister of Internal Affairs Klimenko, his team works in detail on each of these aspects of internal security. But I'm sure I'm ready to present my proposals to society for a national discussion. And finally, the neighborhood policy. Why is this last item among the orientations that I want to propose today. Because a strong neighborhood is always the result of very different and very deep things. In fact, with a successful neighborhood, we can sum up any other of our successes in our country, in our region, in global relations. Economics and culture, defence and security, transport and communication, education and the attitude to history, interaction between states, interaction between us, between people -- all determines the quality of the neighborhood, determines whether there is understanding among neighbours. Poland, Romania, Moldova, Slovakia, Hungary, our neighbours in the Black Sea region of Bulgaria, Turkey, Georgia, each need a separate and detailed presentation of the challenges and prospects that have been reached. But what unites them all for us? They want to live in peace, on their own earth, just as we do. And just as they are now helping us to protect freedom, so Ukraine will always help them to protect their lives. Peace will always prevail in our region, in our Europe, a peace that will be the sum of security and freedom that we must establish for Ukraine's new victorious Ukraine. Winning is a fact. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u3	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! Let us thank you for participating in the plenary session of President Volodymyr Alexander Zelenski of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, members of the Government, Chief Commander of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, defenders and defenders of Ukraine, members of the families of Ukrainian soldiers killed, representatives of the diplomatic corps and all those invited. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, let us once again thank the guests of today’s meeting, primarily the families of the dead and the soldiers of the Defence Force. We have a technical pause so that we can continue our sessions, three minutes of transplant pause, please. Dear colleagues, the request to return to work is yet to be found interesting. Today, we arranged for the Conciliation Council to start by giving three minutes for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. So please sign up for the factions and groups. Dear colleagues, please release the rostrum. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. Mr. Beermaker, please. Odarchenko. "The Voice," Solomia Bobrowski? Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I certainly need a support team. Thank you very much! But I think it's better to hear about the problem that continues. The President has just said a very important thing. He said that we should be cleansed spiritually, just as we are now cleansed of the Russian invasion, military, economic, and other ways. Spiritual cleansing. Without spiritual cleansing, we cannot achieve peace of stability, nor can we attain prosperity. Because the Russian agent, the RPC, through all of his channels, including the church, I would say, the Moscow Patriarchate, is constantly continuing its destabilisation in Ukraine. We can see that. One last example when in Krasilov is attention! – The hops area, Krasilov, the natives of the RPC shouted at the fallen soldier, his relatives, "Get PCU! Get off the U.S.S.A.!" And this is happening in the center, in Central Ukraine. Please tell me, how many soldiers are there going to be, how many more unfortunate cases are there going to be when we start in this room to consider a bill banning the churches of the aggressor country, banning the RPC, how much can we draw? We were promised he would be in May, and then we were promised to suffer a little more. This law was passed by a committee, I recall, in 2022 and has not yet been put into the Hall. Sadly, until we are cleansed spiritually, we will not have complete peace and stability. I very much encourage my colleagues in this room, as well as Parliament's leadership, to listen to the President and to begin to cleanse themselves spiritually and to introduce the Law on Banning RPCs in Ukraine into the Hall. And let's take this historic step, because if the RPC stays in Ukraine, we'll always have destabilization, we'll always have half the peace, and Russia will always destabilize us not by army, but by other means: economic, spiritual, cultural. Let's get rid of it! Take the hall to the 13th and 14th, and we'll vote and we'll get rid of this reign and the spiritual Russian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u6	Thank you, Julia Leonidina. Please, "European Solidarity." Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u7	Respectable Ukrainians, respected colleagues, all of them, with the Day of the Constitution. At that time, 27 years ago, I was a journalist, and I remember very well that night when Parliament proved that it was a force in Ukraine, in the parliamentary and presidential republic, breaking perhaps external scenarios of influence on parliamentaryism and proving that the Supreme Council of Ukraine could make strategic decisions. And today we also need to prove that we are the Ukrainian Parliament. Today we listened to President Zelensky's programming speech, the very important right words about Ukraine being a country of heroes. And we are glad that Parliament, in its own decisions that will be voted on today, has already done important things to ensure that heroes survive to victory. In particular, the need to train before sending our heroes to the front, and the need for training, the need to raise wages and pay. But unfortunately, friends, that bill that was going to be considered in Parliament today, which was created to return 30,000 to our military, will not be about the return of 30,000. There will be very important standards for increasing payments to our heroic wounded. There will be rules on increasing payouts for nurses, students, there will be important rules on instructors, without which the modern army is impossible, and about the trainings themselves. But unfortunately, from the first to the second reading, there was no key norm -- the return of payments to everyone. And so in fact, if we're with you in the Ukrainian Parliament, which not only applauds our heroes, but feels responsible for getting the heroes to pay, we have today in this bill to go back to the first-reading standard when Parliament determines that all those who are now doing security and defence, protecting security and defending the country, should get paid from 30 to 100,000. And the government must clear the list of Odessa soldiers by its decisions, because we see that the words about corruption are spoken to us, but there is no real fight against corruption yet, all those in the back actually have no relation to the army. These people really shouldn't get paid. But the Air Defense Force, but all those on board, but all those on the ground today, they all have to get paid 30,000. That'll be fair. Our law should be about justice. And let us take with you very seriously the fact that the military will watch and closely monitor our votes, and then the reality that will change once the law is passed, their material security. Return 30,000 and so increase the payout for both our wounded and our experts.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u8	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Please. No, no, now Platform for Life and Peace. Please, Papiev Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, distinguished colleagues, first of all, I would like to welcome you to our national holiday, the Day of the Constitution of Ukraine. And today, listening to a statement by the President of Ukraine, we've just been given the content of "Ukraine's Victory." So if you take and mention article 1 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which sounds like Ukraine is a sovereign and independent, democratic, social, legal state. I mean, I'm a person who's trained specifically for the economic and social content of filling these words of the Constitution of Ukraine, and it's the parish of the social state, that's why we've all seen a particular person, a particular Ukrainian family, and that's why we've put this idea into practice. I would very much urge the Ukrainian National Deputies to pay first attention to the bills that are now in the box of our victory. I want to remind you, Bill 8331, and I am now addressing Galina Mikolayevna, that, honourable Galina Mikolayevna, let the Committee of Social Policy immediately adopt this law, this is primarily the need and the budgetary process, because for the next year, 2024, the year of the victory of Ukraine, we need to plan budget expenditures, we need this law to become an effective law of Ukraine, so that we can combine all the social insurance funds in the Pension Fund with the social guarantees of the Ukrainians to be protected. And we really need to do that. The other one. This is a filling of content and a labor market. Dear colleagues, Ukraine will become a socially protected and economically powerful state only if we first have people working with us to return to Ukraine today 5 million 140,000 citizens of Ukraine who have been granted temporary status in the European Union, 250,000 Ukrainians who have received this status in the United States of America in Canada. We need people today to know, first of all, what economic priorities they're interested in, what jobs will Ukraine create, what tax conditions will be for business, what businesses will be doing business. That is, we need to see a particular Ukrainian, a particular Ukrainian, and a particular Ukrainian family today, according to the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u10	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich, please. Then Dmitruk, Chernev and Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u11	Dear Ukrainian people, on this day I welcome everyone with the day of the Constitution of a free, independent, European state whose name Ukraine is proud. According to article 102 of our Basic Law, the President is actually the guarantor of state sovereignty, the guarantor of territorial integrity and the guarantor of compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine. But at this particular time, a time of special war for the Ukrainian people, in fact, our most courageous Armed Forces of Ukraine are extremely helpful. They're actually returning, as it were, this constitutional system to our Ukrainian land. And I would like to point out that recently, during an all-Ukrainian farewell to the Stradec Mountain, the patriarchs of the Ukrainian Greek and Catholic Church, the Blessed Most Holy actually said very good words, which can also be correctly sounded today: we should thank our brave girls and boys who have chosen this moment with their own blood. Indeed, our courageous advocates and protectors, as well as volunteers, diplomats, our international partners, all of us Ukrainians, have chosen this moment, this moment, to be able to celebrate the Day of the Constitution today, this moment, so that our independent Ukraine will win all of us soon, all of us, the desired victory. And we certainly need to thank, thank our heroes, those on different fronts today, those on the back today, all the heroes, and those in the heavens who have given their most dear to our Ukraine, for the European Ukraine. And I want to believe that soon after victory, our Ukraine will be both in NATO and in the European family of the European Union, and we will develop as a free, democratic, independent, European state. Praise our Armed Forces! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u12	Heroic glory! Please, "Delivery of Ukraine", Dmitri Artem Hennadiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, the distinguished Ukrainian people, 27 years ago a historic event took place in this Hall. Recognizing the responsibility of God, his own conscience, past, present, and future generations, the second calling of the Supreme Council adopted our Basic Law. From the height of the summer of the 1990s, it was thought that this was a step towards the completion of the process of nation-building, which began with the declaration of independence. The Ukrainians wanted peace and harmony with their neighbors. As it turned out, the paint was still in the foreground. In 2014-2022, and now we have to protect our sovereignty against the encroachment of a Russian aggressor. We stand and we win. In London, we heard a very important previous conclusion. The European Commission has announced the status of implementation of recommendations for opening negotiations on Ukraine's entry into the EU. On the occasion of today’s festival, it is worth reminding us that European integration is provided for in the Basic Law itself. Our goal is unchangeable, within this calendar year, to start real negotiations on Ukraine's membership in the European Union. The MP's "Deliverance of Ukraine" team is doing its best. Over the past year and a half, Parliament has gained unprecedented momentum in the subject, and every plenary meeting we adopt Euro-integration laws, and factions and groups, committees working together with the government, are actively working on it. There is no doubt that together we will take the necessary steps to combat corruption, reform the law-enforcement sector, electing the judges of the Constitutional Court, protecting national minorities. No less attention is being paid to the issue of increased defence, and the Supreme Council should continue to do its utmost to support our defenders. Ukraine, all of us, have to put ahead of ourselves the greatest, most ambitious tasks, the resistance of the aggressor and the post-war reconstruction of unprecedented proportions, it requires not only resources but also qualitative transformation of thinking. Nothing's impossible. And when Ukraine says it's a goal to reach GDP in a trillion dollars in 10 years, we don't have the right to skepticism, we have to look for ways to implement it. The total restoration of Ukraine is inevitable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u14	Thank you. Cherniev Yegor, please. Yegor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u15	Good afternoon! Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today we celebrate the day that we received 30 years ago, almost 30 years ago, we received guidance for our society and for our lives. For all these decades, our Constitution has been engrossed in protests on the stage, in this room, in civil society. Year after year, we ate up those rights that were enshrined in the Basic Law, and the Constitution gained more and more meaning in our lives. The Ukrainian people, one of the first to receive the Constitution of Philip Orlik in Europe, have great traditions of democracy and self - rule, and know the value of freedom and the rights of the individual. And when there was a large-scale invasion, we all, our entire society, stood up for this Constitution, this Basic Law. We defend article 1 of our Constitution that we are an independent, democratic and sovereign state. We defend article 2, paragraph 2, of our Basic Law, where Ukraine’s sovereignty extends throughout its territory, which is complete and intact. We also defend other articles of the Constitution that guarantee freedom, freedom of development, and respect for human rights. Today, those who want to rob us of our rights and freedoms have come to our land who want to impose medieval slavery, orderly humility, injustice, and dishonesty. But I am sure that in this sacred war we will win, because light always triumphs over darkness, and freedom always triumphs over slavery, for on our side is justice, respect for laws, and the spirit of freedom. Dear colleagues, today our Constitution is rewritten by the blood of our fighters. They protect the Constitution on the front. Their gratitude and respect are great. But we have to protect the Basic Law here in the background so that all the sacrifices that have been made by our people are not in vain, and Ukraine is finally a free, prosperous and just state. With Constitution Day!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u16	Thank you. Heroim Slava! Now, a second, the pause is technical. Taras Ivanovich, now there are technicians working there, a second literally, and then Taras Ivanovich Batenko. And no one from Fatherland, right? No, no one, okay. Mikhailo Mikhailovich, early, early. No, now Taras Ivanovich Batenko and then you. Taras Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the Constitution certainly belongs to the entire Ukrainian nation, but it also has specific names behind it. So today, on this day of the Ukrainian Constitution, we must remember those deputies who stood here day and night to receive it. It's also about the constitutionalist deputies Michael Sirota, Viktor Musiak, Vladimir Stretovic, who have already left us. We should be grateful to them for these nights, before the adoption of the Basic Law of Ukraine. However, the Constitution is not just one night before its adoption, it is a generation of fighters of the 21st and 21st centuries who have chosen the right to be called Ukrainians, to have freedom and social justice, to belong to the nation of the world civilization. 27 years is more than a generation. A generation born of independence from the Constitution still protects values against a bitter enemy who lives, not by morals, but by law, but by the rules of wild celibacy and lawlessness. And that's the fundamental difference between us. We know what we're fighting for and defending. They don't know what they're fighting for or why they're doing it. And having a millennium of national history, more than three hundred years of the Constitution, of Philip Orlik's own, it's hard to explain something to an aggressor who dreams of the borders of a long dead empire. We have freedom and human values, they have a man-hating, feudal, slave state, in fact, a neo-Nazi state. We have a country of free citizens, and they have a country of slaves and houses that are parasitic in the so-called gas station. We have an internal policy, political unity, and they've got the bunnies that they got, even their rabbits, they've got their corruption. Such absurdity on your face. We have education and culture, we have historical ignorance. We want to win, we have the fear of defeat and the destruction of our own country. Therefore, honor and glory to our defenders and eternal memory to all who have given their lives for our freedom. Ukraine is above all else! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u18	Heroic glory! Fatherland, please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. And if you'd like to invite the deputies to the hall, please proceed to the Bill 9342 in three minutes. Please invite factions and groups. Please, Cymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u19	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! According to the Constitution, the greatest value is human life. And on this day, I want to draw attention to both the Ukrainian authorities, the Ukrainian public and the international community to another problem that is the crime of the Russian Federation in relation to Ukraine. 22 military personnel, prisoners of war, among them civilians, have surrendered to the Rostov-on-Don court. These are the 22 Asians, these are the officers and sergeants of the "Az" unit of the Ukrainian National Guard who were captured last year in captivity, who are being tried today in violation of all international conventions, in Geneva, they violate the rules of war, because these people are under the law on prisoners of war, they have to be exchanged. Among the 22 prisoners of war are seven civilians. These are the women who were the cooks in the "Az" unit of the National Guard of Ukraine, who are being tried as though they were war criminals. We're talking to international law enforcement organizations, to the international community to immediately push the Russian Federation to bring these Ukrainian heroes back here to their homeland. We're going to the Ministry of Defense. We're talking about external intelligence, the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, leading the task force on the exchange of prisoners, including these heroes on the lists, and taking immediate action to return them to their homeland. We call on the International Criminal Court to identify this as a crime and to push for the leadership of the Russian Federation to return these Ukrainian citizens to our home. Their lives, their feats, emphasized that their first priority was the service of the Ukrainian State, their loyalty to the oath. And today, on Constitution Day, I am again and again from the "Fatherland" faction, requesting and asking for all measures to be taken to return them to their homeland. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall. Today our colleagues are celebrating their birthdays on the Day of the Constitution. Let's welcome Artem Hennadiovich Dmitruk of the "Resurrection of Ukraine" on his birthday! And we welcome Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch of "European Solidarity"! Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Invite the deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, let's move on to registration number 9342. A bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on specific issues related to military service during the war. Working group. We all know this dramatic story. [[B in m in s a l in]] Signal? Well, everyone is. Let's do it then. There are rights to account, as far as I know, for some factions and groups and non-fractional deputies. There are even confirmation papers. So let's say, let's go to factions now. And then, Dmitri Alexanderovich, we'll get to you, too. Let's start with European Solidarity. Do you have three minutes, as I understand it, Peter Alexiovich? Is Irina Volodymyrna? Who? Irina Volodymyr, please. Do you have it in mind, Dmitri Alexanderovich? For confirmation? From the procedure? On the question? Clever with the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u21	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, dear colleagues! I would like to speak to the chairman about the question of preparing this bill for consideration in the hall. When the committee met, they were not invited to the meetings of the national deputies who applied for the bill. This is not the first time. I would like the representatives of the committee to explain what is causing this behavior, and why are such important questions taking place in such a closed regime? The committee did not invite the rightful people to the committee either through SEDO or the post office. I personally appealed to the chairman of the committee to be invited to meet with the committee. Why didn't this happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u22	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. So, Peter Alexiovich, please, three minutes. Next, Hotcharyenko. Next up, Irina Volodymyrna, then Hotcharyenko, here we go.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Head, it is indeed, indeed, very responsible that we adopt this law on the Day of the Constitution, when the text of the Constitution is next to the Supreme Council. The priorities facing Ukraine are defence and security, this is democracy and this is economics. We're talking about the justice and recovery of the 30,000 payments that were set up in March 2022. And they're trying to take money from the soldiers, they're unfair, they're irresponsible, they're dishonest. On April 10, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted by constitutional majority to restore payments to the military. And those who have stopped signing this law will be held accountable to the people of Ukraine and to the Ukrainian military for depriving you of Ukrainian military money for three months. It's not us, it's them! We did everything we could to solve this issue, to make a working group, in a working group that was created by our initiative, and my thanks to the "people of the people," we set out to adopt, in the first reading, the constitutional majority once again the rule of return for all 30,000. And give the Cabinet of Ministers the right to remove cooks, librarians, and others at a permanent location. We were supposed to vote on this bill as a whole, and again, the same ones who stopped the April 10th payment to the 30,000 military required that it be placed on second reading. Look what you've done, there's a rule that deprives 30,000 military payouts. And what's in the law is what we fought for, for the wounded, for those outside the state, for all the positions of instructors, for the students, for the term of service, doesn't justify what our hands want to take into the military. It's a rape of Parliament, it's a violation of the Constitution. And I really hope that the hall won't let that happen today. Praise the Armed Forces! Praise to the Ukrainian Constitution and glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u24	Heroic glory! Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please. You have two minutes, don't you, Irina Volodymyrna? Three, three minutes. Okay. And who's going to be doing the work? Is anybody coming? You'll bet, won't you? Arthur will put on Volodymyrovich. Okay. And then there's Honcharenko Alexei, one right. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, there is no more important task for the Supreme Council of Ukraine than supporting the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And when they say there's no money for an army in this room, that's not true. There will be another bill today, where at least 2 billion coins from a lying marathon, from a Russian-speaking, not an English-speaking, Russian-speaking "Dome" and "FreeDom" can be passed on to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And we're going to demand that we do that. And you can transfer this money right over to the 30,000 return. We do not know why Mr. Tsabbal made this blocking decision and why it is not being brought to the Ukrainian session hall today. We don't know why the same thing was then stopped in the first reading of the vote for the law that returned 30,000. There was indeed an absolute manipulation when, between the first and the second readings of the law that we are currently considering, there were rules that made the body worse. Indeed, "European Solidarity" fought to ensure that the wounded received not 600 bracelets, but 20,000 bracelets, so that the classmates would receive, not 800 dollars, but 6,000 and 2.5 thousand dollars, so that it would be possible to mobilize and demobilize, in order to actually establish justice with respect to the heroes of the Buzz Hare, who, unlike prosecutors, did not escape the occupied Herson, but did battle tasks without even getting a military ticket, and perished, and that they would receive just honors after their death. It's very important that we return justice to the instructors and that the forces of the terror will not be sent to the front without training. It's in this law. But unfortunately, not even a working group, but some of those between the working groups, perhaps not even from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have contributed 30,000. And so our faction will demand that this paragraph be returned to all the military's 30,000 in the first reading. Colleagues, it's important, the military are looking at our vote today, the military are trusting us, and we need to be trustworthy. Let's return 30,000 to the military. And actually, we're going to let Kabmina take any payment from the prosecutors who are in the military in the military in the military, who are sitting in the back and corrupting there, from those who have nothing to do with the fighting and who don't have a settlement on the ground, but these are the subjects that we have to decide with you. So our faction is going to be putting in to confirm the amendments that make the body worse than the law on the payment of 30,000. It is an absolute disgrace and responsibility on the part of specific deputies and specific factions. It's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u26	Thank you. Now, now, we're on our way to the factions. The replica. Who was mentioned? Cabal Volodymyr. Replica, please. Did you say your last name? Did your last name ring a bell? Do you confirm? The author confirms that Vladimir Aleksandrovich. The writer of the replica confirms. Come on, yes, then, Vladimir Tsabal's line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u27	I, like all colleagues in the Supreme Council, fully agree with Irina Volodymyrna that paying off, increasing payments to the military should be our priority. And as for the question of Irina Volodymyrna, why did I make the decision, I think Irina Volodymyrna knows very well. Because. Amendment 48, which was then voted without appropriate sources, which were not indicated at the time, would only lead to one, that the only source of payment to the backers to be returned, but without sources, would be to take these payments out of the front. And before the counterattack, we couldn't let the front pay down. And to file these irresponsible warrants without sources to get the payment out of the 100,000 frontalists, we can't, we have to find the money first.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u28	Thank you. So now Arthur Volodymyrovich of Herasimov is going to be putting a bill on the bill. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, what are the license numbers? Mariana Volodymyrna, please come to the rostrum. Gerasimov. Where is he? Arthur Volodymyrovich, are you lost somewhere? Does anyone know the license numbers besides Arthur Volodymyrovich? Oh, all right, I see Arthur Volodymyrovich. No, we're not leaving because that's what we're going to do. That's not what we agreed on. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, what are your adjustments?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u29	To be confirmed, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u30	No, you said counting. Do You Have Just Confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u31	That's where we're going. Confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u32	Okay. Irina Volodymyr, please. I'll take care of it, please. Now it's on the count.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we ask you to take full account, not editorially, of Amendment 2. I would like to emphasize once again that our faction has consistently fought for the return of 30,000 military personnel. There's money for that. In fact, we demanded that a bill that returns 2 billion as a minimum, for example, from a marathon of Russian-speaking channels called "Home" and "FreeDom", which is actually shown in a channel called "The Council," which the Ethiopians show instead of Ukrainian lifeguards to be transferred to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. That's why money is, the question of political will. We ask that 30 grand be returned fully to all the military, and then the government removes the corrupts, the Ode soldiers of these and other people who have no bearing on the army. Our amendment 2 was taken into account editorially. We ask her to be fully accounted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u34	Please correct number 2, national deputies Heratchenko, Ionov and others. Partially counted. The authors are asked to take it fully into account. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[12:33:22]] For-79 The decision is not taken. The edit is kept partially accounted for. Next up, Hotcharyenko, please, 32 revisions and 2 minutes. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u35	Hello! Guys, this is a very important readjustment. Guys, this is a very important correction, I'm paying attention to the whole room. It provides for the full payment of 30,000 dollars to all of our heroes, to all of our defenders. And to those who are directly in the fighting zone, zero to zero, to those who are fighting, to enable Kabmin to pay even more than 100,000 -- from 100 to 300,000 dollars. That's what he asked us to do as Head of the Hostile at the meeting at the Conciliation Council, where I was present. He asked us to be able to get more than 100,000 people who deserve it, those who are knee-deep in blood, because they are now protecting our nation and releasing it, and all the others are 30,000, as they were promised in the beginning. Guys, I'm asking everyone to vote. Let each one see the position of each nard on this superprinciple. Praise the Armed Forces!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u36	Heroic glory! Please allow me to vote on the proposal of national MP Hotchárenko to count the number 32. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:35:10]] For-79 The decision is not taken. The edit remains rejected. Next, "European Solidarity," we've just finished, then we've got "The Voice." Please, Samantha Bobrowski, three minutes. You're going to be setting up, Solomon, or is it just a performance? Just the show, okay. Please, Samantha Bobrowski, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, you know, I'm listening to our discussion and I'm getting very strange. Of course, we are in charge of increasing the salaries of the military. But we understand exactly what the Kabmin stand did, and that's why, unfortunately, the Supreme Council was forced to correct the situation in three months. I want to remind you, by the way, that the General Staff of their time gave a letter that they were satisfied with the payments that were unfortunately formed by the Cabinet for the submission of the U.S. Department of Defense and the Ministry of Defense, unfortunately. Today, those who work in the fields with the military see what has happened and what history has happened and how the Ministry of Defence has failed to prove to the heads of the finance departments, the brigades about payments and why there was a huge gap and the problem with the payments themselves, and the Supreme Council has finally taken on this responsibility, I think that has been done with the construction of payments absolutely worthy. And to say that today there's the point of paying $30,000 back to everyone, it's hard to agree with. Because those people who are able to receive or receive today's parliamentary proposals like me are strange when we're talking about the rear territories and when we're talking about fronts or specialties that, starting with the air force and ending with the bomb squads or artillery that have the apriors of this money automatically in the human way, get it. However, the graduation that we have today and the changes to the legislation of another is absolutely acceptable, and we have done today, the Supreme Council, the full work of Kabmin, the Ministry of Defence of the General Staff and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Today we're talking about that, not even with the previous edition, not with 6,000 dollars, the fighter will go into charge, and not with 800 dollars, the fighter will go into charge during treatment, and he'll get the worth of 20,000,100 dollars after paying 2 months of fighting money. What's more, we're giving prizes today, and we're returning these prizes to the instructors of the training centers, because that's where the preparation of the fighting component of our component starts, and it's from 15 to 30 thousand. For the first time in 30 years, it's about increasing student cash payments. Yeah, 2,300 is not much, because they're going to get 600 or 800 dollars today, they're going to get 3. But we have to think about the future, so that this military profession is prestigious, and raise these costs, especially to the level of 6,000 dollars. And it's not only about the right of a termist to get 6,000 instead of 8,000, it's also about the right to mobilize and get out of the service, because we have three times as many terms as we can get out of the President's decree today. So I'm surprised to hear these scandals when for the first time, this graduation is really completely understandable, acceptable. And I'll remind you that there was actually an increase of 20,100 in the first wage for military personnel, as well as an increase in the first wage of February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u38	Thank you. "Paternity," you don't. Three minutes, who? Julia Volodymyrna, three minutes, please. Four minutes, okay. Julia Volodymyrna, from the rostrum would you like? Yes, please. Mariana Volodymyrna, then give the rostrum to Julia Volodymyrna. And then we have "For the Future" and we have a three-minute performance, and then we're going to confirm a couple of rights -- Honcharenko, Razumkov, three deputies from the "Serve of the People," and we're going to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, it is clear that Bill 9342 is a huge step towards our heroes, huge. And it's not even discussed here. Of the amendments that our team has made, very fundamental things are taken into account. First of all, this is the return to a full vacation of 30 days, which is equally paid by our military, which is what we expected on the front. The second is very important. You know our debt to the wounded military. You realize how important it is that all the resources of the State and not just the nations, but the whole world, work to restore our wounded, to restore their health. And that's why part of Fatherland's rights, our team, are accounted for. What is counted? First of all, if our hero is injured and he's in the hospital, he's got the full amount of payments he's getting, protecting our country on the front. That means it's 100,000 dollars and plus another 20,000 dollars, which are additionally assigned to it. In addition, two months after our victim was discharged from the hospital, the same amount is paid. And even another two months of rehabilitation, that's another 20,000 dollars. This means that while our protector is being treated for injury, the country provides sufficient money to restore his health. But at the same time, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that one of our key lines isn't counted, it's impenetrable. For hospital treatment, I mean, in civilian hospitals, in our wounded military, we've offered to distribute to the entire treatment process the so-called Y-code, the 2.5-to-all tariffs for the treatment of civilians. Because hospitals today lack financial resources for those NHRI packets that for civilians are being treated. Unfortunately, it didn't go away, it didn't go away, and it's wrong. Because as a nation, we as a nation are obliged to give the amount of money for the treatment needed to put our wounded soldiers on their feet. I think there's also a positive right here that concerns payments to the military. And there, as for 30,000 dollars, from 30 to 100,000 dollars, that's going to be given to our military, which payments, and what people who are protecting our country today are going to do. But at the same time, I'm very sorry that they didn't support the order for 30,000 dollars to be returned to everyone without being expelled from the military in Ukraine. This is wrong and unfair. But there is a step forward, our team will vote for this law. But we still need to continue the fight to make it worth 30,000 dollars to all the military. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u40	Heroic glory! Please, yes, Kostenko, two minutes. Two or three, Roman? Two minutes. Next up, we're going to have Anna and we're going to keep going to. Next, Ozumkov and several deputies from the "Serve of the People." Please. Roman, please. Roman Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, I think it's practical for everyone here to return 30 grand to all the military personnel without exception, and I'm doing it, and now I'm doing it. But when our colleagues say that either in the first version or in the version that they're doing right now, it was that 100 percent returns 30,000 to our military, that's manipulation. And that's what I was talking about last time I was in favor of this law. Neither in the first, nor in the second, 30,000, no one returns anything from the rostrum. And yes, indeed, there are other very important things in this law. Why I offered not to vote last time, that's what we've achieved right now -- justice for our wounded, who have been ordered not to get 6,000 800, who wanted to give them last time, and so they would get less than those who didn't even get into battle before, not fight for our Fatherland, but get less. Now we've made the right decision. Now they're going to get 20 100, the minimum wage that's in the military. The question is also solved in terms of terms of terms, courses, and other categories of military personnel. So once again, what I'm saying is, this is manipulation, this law isn't coming back. If you want it back, let's go back to the Razumkov version, unlock the decree and vote, and move on. And for the moment, let's address the issues that we now want for other categories of military personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u42	Yes, please, Hotcharenko, two minutes, three.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear friends! Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. We are now considering a very important law. I'm very happy that we've already decided on the vacation issue, it's very important that we give our heroes some rest. And that law that was passed at the last meeting, 30 days plus 10 days under family circumstances, not taking into account time on the road, I, by the way, today, on Constitution Day, hope that the President will not violate the Constitution and sign this law, which is what all military personnel are waiting for. Welcome to Constitution Day! This will be the best greeting. But I want to talk to you about the next very important thing. Holidays are good, it's good, but, guys, let's talk about demobilization. I realize that the subject is difficult, and many are afraid to talk about it, but it is important to talk about it. In the Supreme Council, there's my bill, which provides for the demobilization of those soldiers who served 18 months, then I propose to give them a right, a right: who wants to go on fighting, who wants to fight to a triumphant end -- honour, thanks and thanks. But those who are tired, those who are exhausted, and so many, must be given the opportunity to rest, and they must be preserved for both Ukraine and their families, and for the future. Let's talk about this, maybe someone will say it doesn't take 18 months -- 24 maybe let's talk about it. However, this subject cannot be ignored; it cannot be that someone on the front has been on the front for a year and a half, and no one has seen it at all. We cannot bring the entire war on the shoulders of the same people. We cannot wage war on the shoulders of those who then, in February and March 2022, left, who went by volunteering, who had been mobilized, but did not hide, went and saved the country, set up their shoulders. But these people need to know that they have a way out, because today it looks like there is a way in, and there is no way out! And that's why today, questions and problems, including finding new mobiles, because people know they're coming in, and when and how they come out, they don't know. It's unfair and unfair for these people to get out -- it's just, God forbid, two hundred or, God forbid, three hundred. That's not the way it's supposed to be. So, my friends, I'm addressing all of us, to Parliament: let's come to this discussion, let's solve this question. Let's really show respect, respect for our heroes, because they deserve it. Praise our heroes! Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u44	Please, Preacher Anna, "To the Future." Then think of it. No, then "ministers of the people," and then come on. Okay, okay. Then think of it. Please, Speedboat. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, I don't understand the manipulations of my colleagues, because, in fact, the working group has done a huge job. And even though we don't solve all the problems, some of these issues in this law really do. In fact, we return payments from 30 to 100,000, and this is prescribed in the law. And I don't understand why we say we're not returning anything. If you think you have to return 30,000 to all those who call themselves military officers, it's also a manipulation. Because we all understand very well that the budget is not rubber. We understand that. More than that, how can you explain to the boys who are on the upfront that those who are sitting in the back or who do not carry out combat tasks will also receive pay? It clearly states that if you go to the front, you get paid 100,000; if you're on the second line, you get paid 50,000. What's the problem? She's not here. And that's why these populist statements are, to be honest, not understandable, because we've been working for a long time, and this really was going to be resolved a few months ago, not now. Another vacation question. There was a problem -- we decided, there was a problem of payment to the wounded -- solved, well, what else? We really have a lot of questions: there are a lot of questions about VLC, there are a lot of questions about RTCC. We have a lot of questions about the general medical care of the military, at the hospital. If you go to the hospitals where our military is, you're just going to be shocked because most of them are in a terrible state, and the boys are there with serious injuries. Then we have a clear definition that if a person goes to the reserve, if a military goes to the reserve, he doesn't sit on 500 or 700 bracelets, and he gets 20 or 100 -- that's something. And believe me, I don't understand why there are any questions that we haven't been working on. We still have a lot of questions, a lot of questions that need to be addressed, a lot of work for this commission and the working group that was created. So let's maybe not fight, but we're going to now vote on the bill, and we're going to raise other questions at the next meeting and every time we work on a new bill that will improve the lives of our defenders. Glory to Ukraine and to the Day of the Constitution!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u46	Yes, Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov, please. And you're going to put the papers right here, from the rostrum? You're just out of place later, okay. Okay, fine. Please, three minutes. Then there's Pauline, then there's three deputies from the "servants."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this really should have been resolved a few months ago. Because what will be accepted today does not determine the return of 30,000 and should not be lied to the military, nor should they be told that they do not know. Who, who, and Kostenko, to blame for not knowing what's going on in the army, can't. And I thank colleagues who really support the return of normal payments to our defenders. There's a lot of talk here about this bill that was primarily drafted by the government, then by the group, had to be adopted as a whole. So now, thanks to our team, the "Smart Politics" team has rectified the inadequacy and what they wanted to take from the military, who are out of state and injured. You don't have to laugh. There's 6,000 people out there who shouldn't get it, you know. And you did exactly that in your bill that from the first month, our supporters were given 6,000, Galina Mikolayevna, 6,000 from the first month, not 100 from now. And not 100 that we were able to keep in this bill. The normal wage for termines is not 800 dollars that they get, but at least two minimums, because this year you're making an average wage of 18,268. There's no military. Today the President spoke, he said we should get 30 percent more than in Poland. Let's start with the military, let's say they get 30 percent more than they get in NATO. It'll be fair, it'll be fair, they certainly deserve a lot more. Now it's about 48 revisions and the Cabal's blocking order. I don't know how in the hall, you'll take it from procedure or motive, but from America, it's much harder to look at the situation in the Armed Forces. Really? Secondly, in this bill you're talking about an extra billion, 150, 170, 180, trillion, right? What does your law say that you do not need additional expenses? You're either lying to the army again, and you're not going to return anything, or you're going to admit that you're lobbying for the interests of large corporations and supervisory councils, not the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Let's set priorities for our country, today it's an army and a victory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u48	Heroic glory! Yes, please. Have you been mentioned again? The devil, the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u49	Dmitri Alexanderovich, you said a very good thing: let's not lie to the military. You know, I totally agree with you. When you filed 48 copies of the bill, which was supported, it was just a lie to the military because 48 of the bill did not provide for any funding to pay back. What does that mean? That if it was accepted, the only source of funding for back payments would be to take these payments out of the advance. How responsible is it for lowering the payouts on the leading boys who get 100,000 at risk of life before the counterattack starts, realizing that the number of such boys will increase as much as possible? Was that right? No, it's not. Payments should be returned, but at the expense of the actual cost, not at the expense of the advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u50	Yes, Dmitri Aleksandrovitch, please take into account your changes. The numbers. Six straights. Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u51	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. May I? If you don't mind. Dear colleagues, there is much to be said about the cost. Once again, I did not hear where the money was provided for in this law. You've clearly written that you don't need money, extra expenses from the budget. And you pull this cat by the tail for the first month. Next. We suggest that once again there be no ministers in Kabmin who will come out and say we want to take the salaries of the military because they asked us to do so and make fools of the Ukrainian army. So let's set a standard that will really give us the opportunity to get 30,000 for our defenders. For two weeks, let Kabmin bring to the Supreme Council a tariff network that we will establish, and it will be clear how many, who, and how to get on the first line, 30 kilometers of pose, 3.5 kilometers, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u52	Would you please put the edits on, the numbers?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u53	This is 33 revisions, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u54	Thirty-three. Please, 33 revisions of the people's representative of Razumkov. It's considered editorially. The National Deputy of Reasons suggests that it be taken fully into account. The committee defined it as editorial. Please vote in favour of the proposal of the people's representative of Razumkov. [[12:58:13]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u55	Next line is 45. Dear colleagues, this bill stipulates that the military officers who serve in the service will receive 6,000. Our "Smart Politics" team suggested setting up two minimum wages. Because 6,000 is not enough to provide the families of those who today cannot be mobilized and unfortunately cannot join, until they can fully join the security and defence forces, the forces of resistance to win this war. So there is an offer to provide at least two minimum wages for them and their families. Thank you. No. 45. It's going to be 13,000 400.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u56	45th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Razumkov. The committee's dismissed. The National Deputy of Reasons suggests that it be taken into account. Please vote. [[12:59:34]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u57	Thank you. The next amendment is Amendment 114. The amendment proposes to exclude the right of the State Protection Authority to carry out a noticeable registration and billing of its own means of transport. I don't mind the U.D.O., but this is a matter for this bill that defines security and defence sector security. How is it related to this subject? Just because someone was comfortable putting it there? Well, it's an unworkable story, objectively. So there's a proposal to rule out this rule. You want to make a separate law, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u58	Amendment number 114, Brainy. It's rejected. People's Deputies, Saladuhi and others. She's being taken into account by the National Deputy of Razumkov. Please vote. [[13:00:45]] For-99 The decision is not taken. The edit remains rejected. Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, the next issue, right, listen, it's important, 157th. You know, when we get people to the hospital, our protectors, they leave the state in two months. This bill suggests that the Ministry of Defence be obliged or provided with a place, a proper place for military service, or demolished. Because it's not normal, they're in a suspended state. Even this bill, if we raise their payments, the level of their payments, doesn't solve their issues. They can then work for a citizen, as they say, and provide our country economically. Thus, they are kept at a minimum of maintenance and thus cannot serve or be found in civilian life. If they want to, they can stay. But in this case, we must oblige the Ministry of Defense to provide them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u60	Let's put 157 to the right of the people's representative of Razumkov. Committee position? Mariana Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u61	Thank you. There's a position on the conduct of military service, it's the President's decree, it regulates all the details and rules of how military personnel go. And also, please note, in the "finals" we have written in very detail whether or not the most comprehensive of all the last drafts have written the tasks and terms of the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, the new bill is voted by the Committee on the List of Legally Indicative Acts to be implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee takes control. This is the first time in the history of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u62	157 were rejected by the people’s deputy Razumkov, Friz, and others. The National Deputy of the United States of America is putting the vote to the vote. Please vote. [[13:03:06]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. And your last. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, the law suggests giving an order to the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u64	What's the number? Number, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u65	This is 203 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u66	203.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u67	The amendment proposes that the Cabinet of Ministers should introduce a bill that provides for a comprehensive reform of the financial security of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. It will be clearly defined at the level of the law the size of the salaries, the salary for the military title, the type, the size and the basis for payment of monthly taxes, the financial security, the type, the size and the basis of the payment of the additional types of cash. We will then be held accountable at the level of law not only in the eyes of the military, who believe that only the Supreme Council is to blame, but in fact, we will be able to secure the ability to control the proper level of protection of our defenders. Not the way it is now. Tomorrow, you'll be hearing from them again in your districts that they don't get paid by 30,000, or when you go to the front, and there's no way you can fix this problem. Please support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u68	Amendment number 203 of the people's representative of Razumkov. He suggests that we consider it. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:04:34]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. All of it. Then we have the "Serial of the People" to count three people, as I remember Mikisha, Shpak and Babi. Okay. Then Yuri Pavlovenko and then for confirmation. Okay. Mikisha Dmitri, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u69	Thank you. Amendment 119. It's technically, technically and legally working out and improving the legal definition of the bill. And in fact, this bill actually doesn't solve the issue. Look, we're going back to the fact that Kabin is going to decide how many boys he's going to get. Of course, the Supreme Council will be waiting for this tariff network, but we are not convinced that we will be waiting for it. Moreover, we might not have voted in favour of this bill, but it has been put in place, very much positive standards, such as vacations that have been waiting for many long defenders and protectors, and payments to experts and students, and other things, are interesting things. But it also does not regulate this bill. For example, there's the Mini-Defense, and now the answer is that if you were to serve in the Armed Forces, you wouldn't be able to count one month in three, because there's a colossal, they define somehow military time in their own way. The "Smart Politics" team has registered an appropriate bill where.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u70	Thank you. Amendment No. 119 of the people’s deputies of Razumkov, Saladuhi, Mikishi. The committee's dismissed. Mikisha, a national MP, suggests that we consider her. Please vote. [[13:06:28]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next, Shpak Love, please. 118th?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u71	Let's do the 121st.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u72	121th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u73	It's a technical tool. The situation is that, dear colleagues, it is frightening to manipulate the salaries of the military during the military situation in the country. All of us were approached by the military and asked to be paid back. It was scary enough and ashamed to look into their eyes and explain that it was the Cabinet of Ministers who was somehow uncomfortable, and had to act and work and move on. That was 48 revisions that we're discussing right now. Today it's a bill that the military are really waiting for. But we still need to work, and the comments we have, we need to work on. About the Cabinet of Ministers. The tariff network will now be developed by the Cabinet of Ministers. I want to see it, I want all the moments taken into account. So we vote in favour of the bill. Yeah, he's on his own today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u74	Thank you. Please have 121 requisitions, Umumkov, Saladuha, Shpak, in particular. The committee's dismissed. The National MP, Shpak, suggests that it be taken into account. Please vote, 121 revisions. [[13:08:10]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And Babi, please, Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Amendment 118, it's also technical law, and someone might think it's a trifle, but there's no real thing in this bill. And I hope all the colleagues understand why. Our military is our protection. Their self-sacrifice allows us here with you in the hall to work, to work for Ukrainians, and to make money a priority. Many of our supporters went to the front of the volunteers, quit their jobs, their businesses, their stable sources of income. At the same time, they must feed their families. And cancelling the payments by Kabmin while the first year of the war the military received them, for something in the future, is an obvious injustice, and that obviously doesn't motivate our military. And the authorities have no moral right to seek ways to save money. We must undo such shameful things immediately. The bill deals with these issues in one way or another.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u76	Thank you. 118. There is also Babi among them, a group of people’s deputies of Razumkov and Saladuh, Mikish. The committee's dismissed. Babi’s national deputy suggests that it be taken into account. Please give me one minute of Marian Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u77	Thank you. Briefly pro. Taking into account the few points that have been made regarding this bill, the problems with the military's financial security, I'm going to make a few points on the committee's work and, in particular, on the working group. The working group that was created is interfractional. As the secretary of the task force, I'm going to point out that we've been trying to account for the maximum balance of the bill. And in addition, within the working group, we came up with the idea that this would be the first package solution, and we still have to really work out what will solve the security and defence issues and what should be more or less agreed upon by all the factions. And I think it's a really positive precedent right now, so I'm asking everyone to support it. Moreover, as I have already pointed out, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, we have a list of sub-legislative acts to monitor from the side of Parliament for the execution of the Cabinet of Ministers with specific deadlines. So I invite all my colleagues to join in.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u78	Do you want to make some changes? 118? No, it's not. 128th? Mariana Volodymyrna, so when you answer from the committee, you can't make an application, it's another little process. Well, that's not gonna happen. Please, 118 revisions, National Deputy Babi asks her to take it into account. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:11:24]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Please, Pavlenko, two minutes, "Platform for Life and Peace."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u79	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! We support this bill, and we believe that today's decision is the first step towards restoring justice in terms of military service to strengthen the ability of the Ukrainian army. Convinced that this decision could have been adopted much faster than its preparation and discussion, even today, into political battalions or attempts to obtain political dividends. The army is still a soldier, an officer waiting for the Supreme Council to make swift decisions. Yes, there is no doubt that the decisions that we are adopting today: both the increase in the provision of timer, and the student, and the more clear decision to pay 30 and 100,000 dollars for those who carry out combat orders, are important steps to restore justice. But again, they're extremely simple and they were very clear, and they could be adopted much faster without delaying this process and creating discussions within society and within the army. That's why we're calling for a decision today. We propose to continue the work of the working group that drafted the bill because there are still many unresolved levels and unresolved issues that the army needs today. But unfortunately, from the Cabinet of Ministers, we don't see or hear clear decisions. Thanks again to all the colleagues who worked in the working group. I call for a vote. Welcome to Constitution Day! Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u80	Thank you. Heroic glory! Thank you, Apparatus, for the way he feels about inviting deputies into the hall, it's a new level of interaction that he's trying to make. Dear colleagues, given that we have completed the process, we are now moving on to confirmation rights. I know that these are in "European Solidarity," especially Arthur Gerasimov, and "Serve of the People," Bakumov. Let's start with "European Solidarity" then. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, confirmation papers from 22 to 25, as I understand it. Two minutes, please. Colleagues, prepare for the vote. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, 22 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, please listen very carefully. In this law there are two elements: the first relates to the payment of 30,000 military personnel, the second refers to the wounded, the captives, the experts, the missing unconsciousness, the instructors, and the order of the counting. This second part is 192 revisions, we don't touch it, it's a sacred story that the working group has done well. But according to the first ingredient, the law is now written in such a way that 1 in 3 military won't get 30,000. This is what you need to hear: one in three. That's over 300,000 military personnel not getting it. So if someone says there's no money, in the next bill, we're going to show you right now 90 billion dollars that just have to be used not for certain corrupt things, but for the security and defence sectors. That's why, colleagues, in order for 30,000 to get all the military -- all the military, I emphasize -- I'm betting on confirmation of the 25, 24, 23 and 22. In any order, Alexander Sergiyovich, put them there. And once again, in this way, if you confirm these changes, one third, one third, one third, three hundred thousand and thirty thousand won't see them. Do not support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u82	Arthur Volodymyrovich, I'll bet from 22nd to 25th. Right? Okay. I'm betting on confirmation of the license number 22 of the people's deputies of Besugola, Misogina, and so on, the committee's listed in part. I put it in the way the committee took it into account. Please vote. [[13:16:22]] For 252 Decision taken. The factions. The text is included in the text in which the committee took it into account. 23 A People's Deputy's Order, it's fully accounted for. Herasimov's national deputy puts it on the stand. Please vote. [[13:16:53]] For 257 Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. Twenty-four axles. Show the factions, please. 24 The People’s Deputy of Podlasa Roxolana Andrijavni. It's considered by the committee in part. Arthur Gerasimov puts it on the stand. I'm betting on full confirmation. Arthur's putting it in full, he's offering it in full, and I'm offering it in the paper where it's taken into account by the committee. To be confirmed by the committee. Okay. It's partially accounted for. It's in the paper where it's taken into account by the committee. Please. [[13:17:50]] For 252 Decision taken. This is left to be counted in the Committee's editor. And 25 of the decrees of the People's Deputy of Arahama and the group are fully accounted for. I'll bet her confirmation on the request of Deputy Gerasimov. Please vote. [[13:18:20]] For 252 Edit included. By factions, please, yes. There's no arachami -- his case is still alive. Please, we're done with European Solidarity. Bakumov, please, Servant of the People. Alexander Bakumov. The number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u83	Your Honor, I'd like to place number 146 on confirmation. It refers to the suspension from military service during mobilization. It seems to me that there are huge risks here, if we take it into account, because today, caregivers, people with disabilities, people who are in constant care of persons with disabilities I, II groups, in case they are. They have a delay in the absence of others who can exercise such oversight. We add that, on the condition that such persons with disabilities do not have other working persons who are obliged under the law to maintain them. And who's going to set this fact up -- the assembly centers? You can leave people with disabilities unattended and unattended. It's a mistake, it's a mistake, it's an honorary colleague, it's a legal policy committee, it's a mistake, you can't do that, you need to study and you need to develop an algorithm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u84	The position of the committee, please, is serious.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u85	Thank you. We supported this amendment because it eliminates a very common schematic, which unfortunately happens when ten people are taken care of by one person so that they don't mobilize. That's what cleans it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u86	Amendment No. 146 of the People’s Deputy of Arahamaia and other members of the Committee of Profiles. Bakum puts it on the stand. Amendment No. 146. Please vote. [[13:20:25]] For 237 Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. So, colleagues, we're done looking at factions and groups. Now I want to give Olena Kostovni Kondratuk two minutes, which is ours. She's a deputy head of the Supreme Council, she's got rights, and she's got the right to speak, too. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to bring you to my 85th Amendment. For the first time in this legislation, and in general, it introduces the concept of vacations, such as rehabilitation vacations. And it's about, of course, all the military personnel, our protectors and protectors, that they have the opportunity to get rehabilitation leave, to go through rehabilitation with the preservation of money and material status. But to my surprise, this amendment was rejected by a committee or a working group, little by little, the body of this amendment came from the working group and the committee. I'd like to pay your attention because it's about ethics, it's about professionalism, it's about principle for me. And I want to tell you that this amendment helped me to work out military lawyer Jaroslav Malski, who is currently undergoing rehabilitation because he's been injured, he's injured. I would like you all to thank Jaroslav Malski today for the amendment that entered this bill. Let's give it a big round of applause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u88	Mariana Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u89	Thank you. There are two aspects on this side. Considering we have a new one installed. Oh, you don't have to? So the rehabilitation task force is still working.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u90	Okay. Okay. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill under registration number 9342 of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on specific issues related to the conduct of military service during the course of the war. Please vote. [[13:23:08]] For 311 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Please show by factions. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. We are proposing a bill for registration number 9430: the draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the participants in the Summit of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in Vilnius, Lithuania, on July 11, 2023. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. [[13:23:54]] For 287 Decision taken. The project is included in the agenda of the day session. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[13:24:16]] For the 250. Decision taken. I invite you to the rostrum to report to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, on September 30, last year, President of Ukraine, me and Prime Minister of Ukraine, Schmidt, signed an application to NATO, to join NATO on an accelerated procedure. By that procedure, which is already a member of NATO, Finland, which we hope will soon be Sweden. And we're ready to go this way with honor. And we have high expectations for the Vilnius Summit itself. Because Vilnius is such a strategic place for Ukrainians and a very important place. Because 10 years ago, it was in Vilnius that President Yanukovich Ukraine lost its European integration in Vilnius, its European future. And today we have to do everything we can to make sure that this year, 10 years from now, it is in Vilnius that Ukraine will gain its Euro-Atlantic perspective. And that is why there is a proposal today, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to address the participants directly who will participate at the NATO Summit on 11 July this year in order to accept Ukraine's application and provide security assurances to Ukraine on the path we will take to NATO. And we will definitely get through it. Let's pass with honor, let's pass with dignity. Because we are Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u92	Heroic glory! Request to sign up for factions and groups: two in favour, two in opposition. Please, Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, today on Constitution Day, I would like to emphasise that the Constitution is not only a guarantee of the rights and freedoms of citizens, not just the powers and responsibilities of the authorities, but the Constitution is our agenda of action, the road map, what and when we should do. And as a priority, and I am proud to say that my proposals were supported by the Supreme Council for changes to the Constitution and for defining European and Euro-Atlantic integration as the main task of all branches and all authorities. The Supreme Council has to do its part. I would like to re-emphasize and thank the work of colleagues from our group of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, because that was the first political decision when NATO member states invited Ukraine and supported its future membership. Now we've been to London, and during our meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Cleverly, during our meeting with the British Parliament, we've made sure that every country, including Germany, has a joint decision, including many with other countries, to support the invitation of Ukraine. The window of opportunity is very small, and today Europe is protected, not by the fifth article of NATO, but by the blue-yellow shield of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the strongest and largest army in Europe. And today we have to prove that this is Win-win cooperation, mutual cooperation, and NATO summit 11-12 is to invite Ukraine to membership. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u94	Heroic glory! Please, Mezentseva, "Serve of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u95	Congratulations, dear colleagues. Welcome to Ukraine's Constitution Day. This is not just a piece of paper on which the articles and the alphabet of our lives are written, it is what we follow. And indeed, the changes made to the Constitution are a guide to security, to the defense of the entire subcontinent of Europe. In the morning, my friends, I haven't been able to report, but I am reporting on behalf of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the delegation of Ukraine to Paris, for the first time in 31 years we were able to make a major amendment to this delegation, which was supported by all 46 countries, to support Ukraine's full participation in the North Atlantic Alliance (NATO) without a specific date. Of course, the expectations of the Vilnius Summit are directly very high. Ukraine should certainly receive additional security assurances. It is in Ukraine today that there are 600 different news stories about NATO’s weapons. Friends, let's think, Article 5 of the Alliance's collective security is already being implemented in Ukraine by providing new weapons, training, unprecedentedly the EU has allocated 46 million more to train our military as of this year. The joke, but the reality, our military, our military, they want to involve us in NATO training, not the other way around. Is this not the highest standard, the highest standard of our military to protect and defend? So, colleagues, we are looking forward to supporting the full membership of Ukraine at the Vilnius summit, let this be an open-date invitation for unexpected events. But we all expect and we all support. Mainly, Ukrainians in some regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u96	Thank you, Maria Sergiyevna. We thank the delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and our other delegations, who advocated all resolutions on Ukraine's accession to NATO on all sites, this is a very important component of work. Please, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, we certainly support the appeal of the Ukrainian Parliament to the NATO summit to be held on July 11th, requiring the adoption of a principle decision on Ukraine's membership in the North Atlantic Alliance. The last year and a half, almost a year and a half, clearly identified who the enemy friend should be. And today, the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens see with NATO the future of the Ukrainian state, and I am convinced, unanimously and today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- the highest legislative body -- will take the necessary appeal and thus strengthen Ukraine's pressure on each of the participants in the summit so that the decision on Ukraine is taken. Undoubtedly, over the past year and a half, Ukraine could have implemented the very ambitious Membership Action Plan, which could only have created the most arrogant heads, defining authorizations or queries about Ukraine. That is why we support the need for any Action Plan on Membership, because we have actually implemented it today. It is important what cooperation will be, which will be the level of joint work, where the specialization of the Ukrainian State within NATO in the production of weapons is possible, where other priority actions for Ukraine, which are now making NATO more effective and significantly enhanced. That's why we vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u98	Thank you. Fatherland, please. Invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! Gregory Nemira, faction of Fatherland. Our faction will support this draft decree with appeal. But I would like to remind you of something and offer something. I would like to remind you that there is now a person present in this room who signed a letter to the Secretary-General of NATO in January 2008 calling for Ukraine to join NATO. I also want to remind you that then, and here, these people are also present in the hall, some said that this membership is not in time. Now they've changed their minds, and we're happy about that. I would like to remind you that during the 2014 presidential election, the leader of Fatherland, Yulia Timoshenko, also set NATO membership in her presidential programme as a goal for Ukraine. And then people said to some that it wasn't in time. Now the war has placed everything in its place. But I would like to remind you that when victory comes, there are no ones who take credit for things that have not really happened. And what am I going to offer? I'd like to propose being realistic. Realists based on facts and on their own strength. Let's face it, unfortunately, the most likely thing in Vilnius is that Ukraine will not be invited to join NATO. Let us also understand that this does not mean a final no. And let's understand that Parliament has to be more ambitious than sometimes a government that loses opportunities that lie on the table. That is why I call on Parliament to be more ambitious, to believe in its strength and to support Ukraine's future in NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u100	"The Voice," Solomia Bobrowski? Please. Will anyone else be from other factions and groups, or will we vote already? We'll vote. Okay. Then, Samantha Bobrowski and we move on to the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u101	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. In 2008, NATO, unfortunately, kept silent, told us not to. We lost a lot between 2010 and 2013. And if the situation of silence or non-invitation of Ukraine is repeated in July this year, not announcing an invitation or corresponding language structures, to understand that we have not just open doors anymore, but that Ukraine is preparing for membership and understands its map, it will probably mean that we need to look even deeper at how to make a steel grip on the Alliance and convince our partners, primarily the United States, the Germans, the Greeks, the Netherlands and so on, in order for Ukraine to be a full member of the Alliance. Vilnius is doing the Titanic work, as is Eastern Europe for the entry of Ukraine, and let Vilnius be a farthest for us this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u102	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose to the vote a proposal for adoption, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decree on Registration 9430 on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the participants of the Summit of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in Vilnius, Lithuania, on 11 July 2022. Please vote. [[13:37:26]] For 279 Decision taken. The decree was passed in general. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've come to an agreement. The procedure, what about the procedure? Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Head of the Supreme Council at the beginning of our meeting today, stressed the importance of maintaining safe discipline. I'll even mention the name of the distinguished Mrs. Mesentsev, who last session issued such emotional backing about the Ukrainian national deputies, who have not yet completed the session and who are already broadcasting the results of the session. So now in a single marathon, a statement by the President of Ukraine has already been shown. And we understand that they are equal, and there are those that are equal. I will mention again to Mrs. Mezentsev, because I would like your reaction, Mrs. Mezentsev, to hear that in the one marathon where the broadcast of the Rada channel gives a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at night, because the deputies of the country can't even be shown in the recording, just at night in the slot, this is about the President and his office, you can talk from morning to evening and even by violating the requirement of a perfectly fair speaker of the Supreme Security Council. I don't think we have any prohibitions now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u105	Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. 9429: Draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the European Union, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the Council of Europe and their parliamentary assemblies, parliaments and governments of foreign nations on the prevention of a nuclear disaster at the Zaporozhye nuclear power station and against the nuclear blackmail of the Russian Federation, a nuclear terrorist state. Dear colleagues, I propose to include this issue in the agenda of the session, 9429. Please vote. [[13:39:37]] For 271 Decision taken. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the European Union, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the Council of Europe and their parliamentary assemblies, parliaments and foreign governments on the prevention of a nuclear disaster at the nuclear power plant and the opposition to the nuclear blackmail of the Russian Federation, the nuclear-terrorist state (registration number of the draft Decree 9429). Please vote. [[13:40:25]] For 274 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, the next 9238. This is a draft law amending article 29 of the Road Traffic Act concerning the granting of permits to military personnel during the period of the legal regime of the state of war to use road vehicles with the right to control (registration number 9238). I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:41:07]] For 283 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:41:27]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed: two in favour, two in favor, and we vote against. Right? Please register the factions: two in, two in, two in. Please give the floor to the national deputy of Kostuj Anatoly Vejacheslavovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u106	Please pass the word to my colleague, Alexiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u107	Please, Alexiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u108	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, my friends, your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. What does this bill foretell, and what did it come out of? Our defense forces today are in dire need of mobile means of transport, and there is a critical need for cars capable of overcoming roadblocks, as well as high passages and good maneuverability. Given that our bill does not allow the import of such vehicles with the right steering position and that there are no rules allowing such vehicles to travel on Ukraine's roads, the bill just proposes to make changes and allow them to do so. it has been established that in exceptions only in the course of military tasks or duties by military personnel who do not allow such a car to be misused for private purposes and do not fall under the essence of the law. We are also expanding the military list, not only the Ukrainian Armed Forces or specific structures, but it covers all of them with the general notion of "other military formations". We also prescribe charity instead of charity. This is a broader concept that allows such cars to be used. In addition, our international partners from Britain, Japan, Australia, who have the opportunity and want to help our Ukrainian Armed Forces, all the military formations that operate within the laws of Ukraine, to provide such cars. And in view of that, we ask our colleagues, along with the copyright team, to support this bill on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u109	Thank you. Please, Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyevna, The Voice faction. Klimenka, I take it, Julia Leonidina? Please, Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u110	Thank you. Colleagues, it's a very simple law and it's very mature, because the Ukrainians have taken out all the left-hand ones. The cars with left - hand cars from Europe and the surrounding countries were left with only the right steering wheel. And in fact, a lot of cars in Ukraine ended up in the 22nd and 23rd year with a right steering wheel, in the 22nd year there were no registration problems, and in the 23rd year they turned out to be. And in fact, it's a simple enough technical, simple technical law to allow everyone to register -- attention -- to all the security and defence forces, according to our committee's regulations. So it's not just the U.S.S.S., it's both the S.S.U.S., and the border guards, and all the rest of them are the leading license plates for the right-hand driver for the period of the war, plus 90 days after. So now you can legitimize the cars that were imported by volunteers, the material and technical aids that our partners passed on, and some countries that have basically handed us the cars with the right driving. And it's not just about light cars, it's also about special equipment and special transport. So I urge everyone to vote on the basis and in general, our committee's decision on the basis and in general. Let's vote and end up registering so that our military can stay legally, register these cars, and be on the road, too, legally, and have no trouble with the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u111	Thank you. Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u112	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, all those who help the army, well know that the issue of cars for the army is one of the key. That's actually what volunteers do. And everyone knows that right-hand cars are more accessible, they're easier to find today, they're cheaper, and they're carried by hundreds and thousands, actually. We know that very well, because I personally, from the Honcharenko Centers we handed over 70 cars to our Armed Forces. The Petra Prashenka Foundation and the Community Affairs have 300 trucks with a right-hand drive. We understand this wonderfully, as every volunteer in our country knows, but it hasn't been resolved in months. In fact, these cars were in the Syrian zone, the military couldn't put them on the bill, so they couldn't get fuel, so they couldn't repair and torture it. A long time ago, I passed a bill that had to be decided. Finally, we came to the point. Colleagues, we don't pull any rubber, we have to vote now as a basis, as a whole. And I ask you to immediately ask the President to sign it immediately so that the speaker will sign this law immediately, because this is a question of our heroes to whom we should just help. It's just that it's possible to use a car with the right steering wheel for all the military who need it for a few days. So, my friends, I'd like everyone to vote in favour, once again, immediately in general, without losing a minute. And I ask the speaker immediately to ask questions about the immediate signing of this bill and to send it to the President for signature. Praise the Armed Forces!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u113	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u114	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we all understand that we are now unable and forbidden to use a vehicle where the steering wheel on the right is on the right side, but life has forced. Life was forced. We are grateful for the assistance provided by Britain and other countries that use such means of transport, and we must adopt this law immediately. And it certainly needs to be taken as quickly as possible, and if there is a possibility, even in general. The only thing we need to understand is that this law has to take effect during the military state, and then the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has to determine how these means of transport will be used after the military state has ended. And now, of course, our military needs to be supported, and those who help us need to be thanked. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Zimbaluk Mikhailovich – 1 minute. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u116	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the National Deputies! The question that we're considering was also the subject of a discussion in the working group that worked on these very changes. And that's the question that we had to solve a year ago, because actually cars with right-hand cars are imported for the military, they're working on the front, but it's all happening informally. This bill allows us to introduce and translate into the legal order of import, use, and balance of these cars. And we need to vote in the first and second readings and in general, and solve this problem in order to create conditions for volunteers and ultimately for our Armed Forces and other military formations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Please take your seats. The committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole. But as we always put it, first as a foundation and then as a whole. Therefore, I propose to adopt a draft Law amending article 29 of the Road Traffic Act concerning the granting of permits for military personnel to use vehicles with a right to control during the legal regime of the state of war (registration No. 9238). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:50:46.]] For 284 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law amending article 29 of the Road Traffic Act concerning the granting of permits to military personnel during the course of the legal regime of the state of war to use road vehicles with the right to drive (registration 9238). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:51:26]] For 279 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, we still have Bill 9165. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023 on the use of funds from the State Fund for Regional Development. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed not to discuss voting. Dear colleagues, three minutes is a performance, yes, or what? Arthur, please come. One second. Please, Irina Volodymyr. Irina Volodymyrna, you have four amendments, three minutes, and we're voting on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, one of the first reforms of the new team in 2019 was that you closed the English-speaking TV channels, and billions of government dollars were spent on House and FreeDom over the years. On these channels, there's always good Russian, your friends from 95th quarter and your friends get billions and millions of government funding to go there with the good Russian. And at that time, we hear there's no money for an army. You know, showing stories with the Ephesians and saying they're saving Ukrainians from Herson, there's money for that, and there's no money for an army. So in fact, in this bill, we're offering 2 billion dollars to be sent from the marathon from the Russian-speaking TV channels "Home" and "FreeDom" at the Armed Forces of Ukraine. One of the reforms you've promised society is delligarchisation. But now the oligarchic channels, including 1+1, are funded by the state, including Inter. Each year, from the state budget, they are now on a marathon, where only the necessary authorities are going, not the oligarchs are now funding them, and the state, from the state budget, is spending millions on these television channels to tell the good news about power. And notice, there's almost no more soldiers there, there's "good Russians" there, anyone but our real heroes. So please put to the vote now Amendments 421, 424, 425 and 426. What are these amendments about? Dear members of the military, these amendments to make 2 billion dollars out of your taxes, from the taxes of your families, the authorities count not every year to the English channel, the Englishman, as President Zelenski has told us today, but on Russian-speaking TV channels "Dom" and "FreeDom" to the channel "Rada" which does not show the Council, but only at night, but whatever, the Ethiopians channel "Rada" is now advertising us for a marathon. The canals belonging to the oligarchs do not need to be used. Plus, Inter, other TV channels get billions from the state budget. Did you vote for that, your honor? We're demanding that this cost, 2 billion dollars, be converted to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, so that each military officer will receive an extra 30 to 100,000 dollars so that the army will have money to buy drones, buy technology, buy cars, and not volunteering. There is money, but the authorities need to tell us that everything is good in the marathon, and it is a bribe to the oligarchs not to criticize the terrible things that are happening, including corruption. I'll remind you what we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm the only one who can't understand, and where is the head of the Committee for Budget Affairs, Denis Vadimovich Herman? Please take your place, your place here now. Please. Yes, please be here. Yeah, okay. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting these amendments on the table right now. Amendment 421, Herotchenko. It's rejected. At the same time, the author asks to take into account. I'll bet you 421 adjustments. [[13:56:52]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. By factions, please show me. 424 amendments, it's also rejected by the committee, by Heratchenko. Please vote. [[13:57:28]] For-75 Decision taken. No, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 425th, Herotschenko. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:57:58]] For-74. The decision is not taken. And the final amendment of Irina Volodymyr is 426. The committee is also dismissed. Please vote. [[13:58:21]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, before I tell you, there's a small number in Aleksiyczuk, one in Mikisha, two in there, and then we'll go to Nina Petrovna. Please, Alexiyczuk, 357 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u120	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm heading 357, part 10 of article 1 of the "Preparation and Evaluation Procedure." I'm talking about a fair distribution when voting in Action. Because of the distribution of votes that have been made today, the project has won. My amendment says that determining winners will depend on the percentage of voters in one community or another. So if a community of 100,000 and voted 1,000 people, that's one percent. If the community of 10,000 voted a thousand people, that's 10 percent. It's going to be a fair division between small and large communities, it's going to make them even. So, colleagues, the request to support this amendment, which will simply bring about conditions both small and large communities, a request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u121	Thank you. 357 Alixiychuk's amendment, it's rejected. Because I understand that the philosophy of the bill has been changed. Actually, there's no more question here, no more Acts, nothing, all the money goes to the army, just to be clear. But I'm betting on 357 of Mr. Aliksiyczuk's amendment. Please vote. [[14:00:10]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Mikisha, you have two corrections, I think. Name the numbers first.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u122	Mr. Head, not two, but five. 311, 314, 326, 333 and 334 repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u123	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u124	Colleagues, 311 repairs. See, here is technically added to Mikolai's still Odessa, Poltavska. But essentially, I want to say that we're actually giving money to the military, but all that was, all the discussion that was about this bill, it went into the hands of the military. So the first reading that we were given to discuss doesn't matter because it's going to be the next 2024. So if we support and vote on this bill as it is now, all of these norms, regardless of what we've proposed between the first and the second readings, the first reading will remain, and it will enter into force in 2024. But they put it in with the military money, that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u125	This amendment of yours is partially accounted for, I just want to pay attention. I understand that you insist on taking full account, right? Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, in our consideration of the bill and in our working groups, we did this. As far as 311 is concerned, it's actually partially accounted for. But I would like to point out that the actual purpose of the bill was to regulate the use of DFRD 2 billion in 2023. But given the critical time, by the end of the year, most important projects will not be made at the expense of these funds. So the committee's proposal was to send 2 billion dollars for the U.S.S.S.A. to buy weapons. So I'm asking you to support the bill as a whole, and specifically for Amendment 311, it's still partially accounted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mikishi's 311th amendment is part of the committee. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's offer. [[14:02:46]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Please, 314 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u128	Thank you. 314 the amendment proposes to introduce the Zitomir region also to the list of areas to which it will receive. I don't understand why she was ruled out that she got less than Odessa. As far as 2 billion is concerned. No, this bill tells us about the mechanism for using DFRD money. And it doesn't matter, 2 billion is going to be or 22, it's a mechanism, and that's what we're talking about right now. The adjustments will continue to be just as they should be used, regardless of the size and extent of the costs. But of course, you didn't want to listen to the national MPs, and you decided we'd do it quickly. We're going to say that these 2 billion in military and noise vote for everything you put on first reading. And what we offered between the first and the second could be thrown out. That's what all these sensations mean about what we now define as 2 billion per military. In the next 24 years, the mechanism that you're setting up is going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u129	314 amendments by Mikishi and her colleagues were rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:04:15]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 326, Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u130	The 326 amendment refers to a reduction in the price from 225,000 to 200,000 people, which is a more technical amendment. I'm going back to the bill itself, to its essence. The State Regional Development Fund is aimed at reducing regional development imbalances, and this is primarily supported by projects of appropriate regional development. And how will it be determined which project will be supported or not supported, puts these changes into the relevant bill, the State Fund for Regional Development bill. But the text presented to us before our first reading will not help us in this matter, will not solve it. My colleagues and I have been doing the right thing, and I will continue to sound them, and Mr. Aliksiyczuk has also been doing the right thing to help better regulate the appropriate aid mechanism for the regions and communities in the first place. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, 326 amendments, she has been rejected by the committee. Please, the people's deputy Mikisha is asking to be taken into account. Please vote. [[14:05:53]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains rejected. 333rd, Mikisha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u132	Colleagues, I'd like your attention now. Regional commissions that determine the level of the region, which project will still be put to the vote. This amendment defines what we've been cleaning up this corrupt chain, which for many years in manual mode, for some of the proponents from the governor of posted people, determines who gets it for loyalty and political reasons. The Regional Development Fund should help to develop regions, and this should be impartial and the appropriate regional commission would not allow this to happen. And that's why I'm offering to clean them up and put up with this corrupt chain, and forget them as a terrible day. That's what 333 is about. I don't understand why the Ministry of Public Information was against this initiative. Convincedly, all majors know that it is evil and that it is necessary to support it. Colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u133	What is the position of the committee, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, indeed, when considering the bill on the committee, this amendment was rejected at the request of the Ministry of Reconstruction. The Ministry of Reconstruction's argument for the preservation of the regional commissions was that our foreign partners insist that local self-government instruments be kept, including the quick processing of those bills that were passed by local authorities, so that they could be dealt with quickly. But this issue is supported by many majorists who have some negative experience working with these regional commissions, so the committee as a whole will not insist if the application is supported by a hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have you all heard the argument? 333 Mikishi Amendment. She was rejected by the committee, but, in principle, the reporter said that if she was supported, he wouldn't mind. So it's logical, yes. The 333 revision of Mikishi's authorship. Please vote. [[2:08:21]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Next amendment 334, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u136	Colleagues, colleagues, I ask you once again to pay attention and hear, this is the same thing as the regional commissions. Listen, what goes to Action is not determined by the citizens through Acts, but by what the regional commissions determine. In front of the action, even the voting, those in favour of the action. First, it's a regional commission, and they're going to define not what's necessary, according to regional development, but what's needed according to political or other arrangements that you, most of you, if you think you're going to influence, will not be. Governors will influence them to put what they want. Again, it's about regional commissions that shouldn't be at all. We're cleaning up this corrupt chain, even before the action, it won't be strong, it'll immediately vote as it needs to be. Colleagues, if not cleaned up, there is no point in voting for this bill. Please support this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u137	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u138	It's the same as the 333, so the position of the committee is the same, and my comment is the same. Please support the offer, support the 334. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, please, I'm putting 334 amendments on the table. You have heard the position of both the author of the amendment and the author of the committee. There is a request to support such an approach. I'll bet 334 votes for the vote. Please vote. [[14:10:23]] For 217 One second, colleagues. Thank you, Your Honor. The amendments have been completed here. Nina Petrovna, how many amendments do you have, please? 40 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u140	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u141	They're all rejected, we get it, yeah. Nina Petrovna, then, please, the number, then the repair, okay? Or if you have a group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u142	389 revisions. Dear colleagues, these changes in general relate to changes in the state budget and they were to go as a resource to return the thirtieth. Yet today, no further reward has been paid to the military. Regrettably, even my classmates, who had the right to speak, read the text ambiguously, feel that there is something good there. They actually cemented in the law the position that is currently in effect, and it's set up by the Cabinet of Ministers, so we're embarrassed. But we now have the opportunity to consider first the resources to return the thirtieth and then talk about its return. It's what colleagues from another faction wanted, so let's get started. First of all, we now have proposals from us regarding the redistribution of expenditure and additional income. To be serious, the budget committee should now propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, the 389 amendment of Jujana was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[2:13:02]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Next, the number of the amendment and essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u144	390.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u145	390, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u146	In fact, if we were to think seriously about the return of the 30th, the budget committee would have to offer a budget sequester. Because over the past few months of 2023, we have a huge change in the cost: there are articles that have a catastrophic lack of funding, and there are articles that are already covered by our partners, donors and so on. And there are also changes in the income part of the budget. So it's very obvious that the unwillingness to make the state budget transparent now and one that corresponds to reality is that we're now going back to these amendments that I wanted to propose to consider exclusively in the 30s working group. That's why we didn't bring them into the hall before. But the task force didn't get to these issues because there's no need for an extra resource.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u147	390 of Yuzana’s Amendment The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[14:14:31]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Next amendment, number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u148	400. I'm talking to my thinking colleagues. Please tell me, if there was no need for additional funds to be found in the working group after the return of the 30th military, do you think we would have to pay something extra after the adoption of Law 9342 by the military? No, of course not. So now we have to look at the changes that we're proposing, but I'm sure the Ministry of Finance, if it doesn't go seriously now, has just fallen for this lie right here in the hall. You can't look at it like that. don't take responsibility for your job. We, the national MPs, now let's clean up all these political discussions, and we'll just sit down and work on the state budget, and it's the basis of what we can do in the country right now, and what we can do to help the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u149	400 Amendments to the Authorship of the South. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[14:16:00]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Nina Petrovna, number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u150	The next 401 and the next 410, so I don't have to look for a leaf, because it's very difficult for me to talk, so we put each of them on confirmation. So 401 amendments. I'm going to start talking in fact then, although I'm hoping someone will hear me at least so that the Ministry of Finance and the committee will start working on the changes to the state budget and to the budget sequester that the apriors have to do. What we're offering, please look. 51 billion 136 million, the road fund is exactly the kind of money we can spend on additional military rewards. Why? Because 32 billion 619 million can be reduced, it's 75 percent of the total amount planned for road construction. Why can we reduce it? Because these funds were given to us by our partners. Please tell me, why are you hiding such a reserve? I'm going back to the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the 401 amendment of Jujanina, was rejected by the committee. I'll take her into account. Please vote. [[14:17:31]] For-47 The decision is not taken. 402 revisions. Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, in part, have come and are in the state budget for the reconstruction of infrastructure, that is to say, road construction. This is not denied by members of the Committee on Budgets. Please tell everyone who's still in the room, is it not interesting that 32 billion will now be used in a opaque way without information and without the support of the national deputies responsible for the adoption of the state budget? So I ask you, once again, to review and support the transfer of these expenses to provide the military with an additional reward. The second number is 18 billion 517 million in the road fund again. Since it's a special fund, technically I'm transferring it to the state budget to the general fund to reduce and target the provision of military supplies. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u153	402 of Jujanina’s amendment. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:18:59]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Please, 403, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u154	I focus on your attention, it's not the air we're sharing right now, we're talking about a special fund that's filled with excise taxes on fuel and car imports. So this is the living cost that comes into the special fund and it's the direction of the expenditure. When we say that this fund still counts the cost of borrowing debts and we know that these payments have been carried over until 2025, it is clear that these costs should be directed exclusively to additional military fees. Please support this amendment, because it will just serve to provide the 30th. And I'd like to hear about those who are against the return of the 30, and what do you have against the 51 billion?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u155	I'm betting on the license number 403 of the national deputy of Jujanina and Pavelka. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:20:30.]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 404. Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, you and I have now moved on to extra income. You don't think it's strange that some of us, with operational information, are talking about what the budget got there in April and in May additional arrivals? Where are they reflected in the government budget? You know the situation, the budget committee, that when the government budget rate is rejected more than by a certain percentage, you have to make adjustments to the state budget? Where is the adjustment? Now let's talk about the comings that I planned three months ago, I've seen them, and today you already feel them in the budget. Just don't assign that money to the TSC, to individual names. These are the funds paid by the Ukrainian business. So let's go where we need to go now for the state budget to become a state of war.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u157	I'm betting on the vote number 404, the national deputy of Jujanina, Pavlenko. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. I'll bet on it. [[14:22:04]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 405 revision, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, I have read recently, wow, that the authorities are able to regulate some kind of gaming business. Not to mention that illegal trafficking through bank schemes and payment systems and tax returns to 180 billion dollars. I'm taking the information you own now, too. If we're starting to control 180 billion in the game business, let's figure out how many PDFs, the military assembly can be added to the players if all of these bets are now operating on the official plane. So that's 19 billion 926 million can be taxed on the income of individuals if you're really starting to control the gaming business, and the military community, including. And if we say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u159	I'm betting on the vote number 405, the national deputy of Jujanina, Pavlenko. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. Let's count on it. [[14:23:36]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Please, next, 406 revisions, Nina Petrovna Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u160	I'd like to ask the deputies of Kiev. If all the gaming halls and businesses are registered, and I checked it out in Kiev, then the local budget can get an extra 60/40, 60 in Kiev and 40 in the government budget, an additional nearly 17.5 billion dollars. 17.5 billion dollars. And 2 billion 430 million is a military congregation. With the small amount yet to be paid from their income by gambling organizers, it is 3 billion 240 million. Please amend the state budget and direct it to provide additional payments to the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u161	Please, license number 406, National Deputies of the Yuzanin, Pavlenko. The committee's dismissed. Let's count on it. Please vote. [[14:24:57]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 407 axles. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u162	Now I was very impressed by what the President said today about the grain corridor, the support of our exporters. I'm just surprised that some people continue to write that there's about 100 billion dollars lost in the grain corridor because of customs, because of the inequitable or inequitable work of customs. We know quite another truth, as the grain corridor was such a dark window of entry, and it remained, there was no open information, no one could get there. But if you use an expert security mechanism, it's by the law that's already in place, then by the numbers that both the TSC and other MPs have published, you can avoid the risk of non-returning the currency out of VAT, which means that this mechanism will allow you to take 14 percent, you can get 11 billion 100 million. It's from a number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u163	I'm betting on the vote number 407 of the national deputy of Jujanina, Pauline. It's rejected by the committee. Let's count on it. Please vote. [[14:26:32]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 408 correct. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u164	Unfortunately, if the MPs don't want to listen and leave the hall, I hope the Ukrainians who see the broadcast at night will realize that our country is not using all the reserves that we have today. Unfortunately, these drum dances, the different promises there that don't really relate to raising the economy, don't allow it to move from the place where it's now found itself, it's very sad to feel that. So I still insist that this discussion that we are currently having, I address the head of the Budget Committee. You've already looked at yourself on the budget committee, there are all the amendments. Please tell me, in the face of this, that I'm wrong to suggest that where the number is too high, because you're not preparing the budget sequester? Give an answer to that question. Because even if we didn't have enough money for the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u165	I'm betting on the vote number 408 of the national deputies of Jujanina, Pavlovka. It's rejected by the committee. I'll bet on it. Please vote. [[14:28:07]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 408 correct. Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u166	Regrettably, the classmates who spoke here and talked about the promise of an unrealistic or wrong payback, an additional reward of between 30 and 100,000, did not hear this discussion about additional sources that might be in the budget. I'm sorry. And you have to realize that in the correspondence of the working group, the question was that when we discussed all of our approaches to returning from 30 to 100, we would go back to looking for a reserve where to find the resources. And you all know that no one was looking for resources, because no extra rewards would be returned to anyone. So now my discussion is just to make you understand, I see, other experts see, the public sees that we are actually misusing the resources and opportunities that we have in the country. And what we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u167	I'm betting on a vote of 409 National Deputies of the South, Pauline. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote for it. [[14:29:43]] For-40 The decision is not taken. 410 revisions, please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I hear my colleagues here are talking about 75 deputies in the hall now looking for additional resources for the military. I want those who don't see the hall now to understand, that is to say, leave those who want or want to hear, or really find them. And the lack of power to speak on this subject just makes me say the same things right now. Let's move on to the 3rd article of additional revenue, and some people have already said that now more taxes have begun to come from the tobacco market. Listen, don't engage in either lobbyism or any kind of politics at all when you're disrupting some investment climate and understanding of what's going on in the country. Let's tax what we've already discovered, what's in the gray plane and maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u169	I'm betting on the vote number 410 Nina Petrova of the South and Pauline. It's rejected by the committee. We're voting on it. Please vote. [[14:31:21]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Then we go 411 and so on. Yes, Nina Petrovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u170	From 411 to 417, this is the next block.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u171	Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u172	I'd like to draw attention once again to the fact that we have black sectors of the economy that have grown significantly in all directions. Now we're talking to you about the market for toxic tobacco products, and since I'm a member of a committee that's quite regularly considering these issues, we've recently found that we've managed to stop a shadow circle at one of the factories in Yellowwater where the equipment was cut out, and it's like this part is now going to the legal plane from the market. If we count the excise tax on that small quantity of products manufactured at this particular tobacco factory, we can add 2 billion 118 million excise taxes to the budget, half a billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u173	411 The Law of Nina Petrovna of the South and the Group of Deputies (Ariev, Pavlovenko and Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna, also coauthor of this amendment). I'll bet you a vote. It's rejected by the committee. [[14:33:04]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, or maybe we'll take five minutes and then we'll put five in a row so that you won't be distracted so you can go on for five minutes. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u175	Five minutes, Nina Petrovna, please, then five rights to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, I am now following the articles that became known to me two months or three months ago. When we talk about how the tax system is changing now and what the authorities are planning after we adopt the laws that we're going to consider tomorrow, it's going to significantly increase the revenue. And if we don't look at it now, we're going to insist on reviewing the state budget with you, well, then no one counts with your opinion. If that is so convenient for you, it is inconvenient for me, such as myself, who can see in the figures this vast deception, which the authorities are trying to continue, tolerate, and do not come out of it. Let's speak plainly, I'd really like to and say to Mrs. Roxolana that I don't want to make these amendments in general, just because I want to talk to the profile committee about what you actually see and support, what you might want to use in another way, what you might want to use on the Mini-Defense and just to get back to this 30, or maybe not such a big resource. Well, I need a discussion, so why isn't she here? How much are we going to suffer over the fact that we don't have any money? Well, I don't know where to go, the State Bureau of Investigation or whatever other competent authorities are, if we can't put ourselves in order if we're covering up the proceeds to spend it later on in an opaque way. Someone has to put an end to this? I have only one option, because of the amendments, to offer the deputies support for the budget redistribution, to show extra revenue and to direct them to where we all feel most needed. We now have to provide the Ministry of Defense as an orderly, and the Ministry of Defense accordingly is our Armed Forces. Let's get to it then and get to it clearly, not just saying that there's no extra resources. If anyone disagrees, please let's have a discussion, let's talk about it, well, to infinity. I'm holding in my hands right now a collection of all the materials to cover a large part of the expenses of our donors, our partners. And at the same time, the Ministry of Finance, the Cabinet of Ministers, they just keep quiet. By the way, there's been a lot of talk here that for the first time in history, there are specific orders from Kabmin or even sub-legal documents for the Ministry of Defense or Kabmin. I'm surprised, people, that means that you should resign the Cabinet of Ministers, you don't have to work for them, because you can't write out all the operational details that apply to each norm. And I'm sure what we adopted in 9342 to 30, we've narrowed it down to ourselves because it's in the body of the law. What the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Defence, tolerated was introduced into the body of the law. And the Ministry of Defense, it's understandable why they had to use letters that, by the way, were being drawn to here as proof that they were doing well. But no, you're on your own, and you're all talking about the military insisting that you have to go back 30. And we talked about it this morning. No one is involved in any kind of politics, please understand. We have to speak with certainty: we have a great deal of trouble right now, we need to fill in the Armed Forces. And when people go there, who are now very underserved, do you think they can work and go with the security they're now offered? Well, really, then, I've told you ten times that when the security was a salary, even if it was 13,000 400, 30,000, and saving a salary at the previous job, it was attractive, as cynical as it sounds, from a financial point of view. And now it's gone. So what do you want to do, keep catching people and being forced into the van to do the mobilization? That's the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u177	I am voting in turn to take into account Nina’s rulings of Peter of the South, Arieum and Paulica: 412, 413, 414, 415, 416, 417. Please vote for the 412 bill. [[14:38:49]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 413 Jujanina's and a group of deputies to account for. Please vote. [[14:39:11]] For-25 No decision taken, no correction counted. 414 of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina and of the People’s Deputies, rejected by the Committee. Let's count on it. Please vote. [[14:39:34]] For-24 The decision is not taken. 415 were rejected by the committee by the national deputy of Southaina and other national deputies. Let's count on it. Please vote. [[14:39:58]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 416 of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina and a group of National Deputies, rejected by the Committee. I'll bet on it. Please vote. [[14:40:22]] For-26 No decision taken, no correction counted. 417 The rights of the national deputy of South and other national deputies have been rejected by the committee. Let's count on it. Please vote. [[14:40:45]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The next block of 418, I see, 422, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u178	423rd. But let's not go after all the amendments, yeah, exactly, five minutes and then vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u179	Yeah, see, the camera already feels us, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u180	I, my dear fellows, am addressing you, Mr. Lord Tsabbal, please note this. I don't want to argue with anyone, but I want to find an understanding so that we can talk the same way and not lie here. Well, that's enough. I honestly thought that 16 months of war would change people and that we would be aware of our responsibility, and that was not the case. Look, this block of amendments, because this is the law that's being built, is bringing us back to the redistribution of expenses. I analyzed my budget at the time, and here I was telling you that for 2023, not everyone was getting the same increase, for example, not just for the indexation of the payroll fund, but for someone more than for others. Someone was cut off and left behind. And if I were to do the right thing, if I were a finance minister, I'd sit down and talk, and let's pick up those supervisors who had more, more than each manager has allocated funds in that direction. So let's take the procurator's office, they have an increase, the payroll fund is more than anybody else's more than the inflation index of half a billion dollars, more than half a billion dollars. We can't do an analysis of what 572 billion is. 718 thousand? Why would they add another 169, 170 million to their development costs? What can be improved in the prosecutor’s office, repairs, or other activities? So tell me, please, I understand that the finance minister is afraid to talk to the principals, especially with the prosecutors, but we're here together, we're a lot of us, we can now support these amendments and exactly, I'm sure once you do the analysis, these costs, 730 million dollars, 712 thousand dollars, can be reduced by the costs of this particular warden. Here's the D.B.I. I get the impression that you're just afraid of different law enforcement agencies, so they've been made even when you're looking at the budget. No one even had the ability and the courage to say, “Why do you need more? ” And what caused us to pick up extra footage? What do we do, and where? If it goes to extra payments, they go to separate tranches of these extra payments. This was planned in 2022 for 2023. Let's deal with this. That's why we have half a billion dollars here. After all, we understand whether you will continue to tolerate this responsibility. The state of the economy and the fact that now our law enforcement agencies instead of the BEB and the D.B.A. and the D.B.I. are blocking accounts, doing business searches, stopping business completely, and you're going to be selling it in London as an investment climate in Ukraine? Yeah, listen, your green metallurgy, the green boulder there doesn't exactly need investors who are afraid to come here, because here: (a) in those directions that you've chosen as key, there are big, like, businesses or holdings that have already occupied this niche. We have to offer something new, something new. So when we talk about a new one, the question is, I'm like you with a business climate. And we have a business climate of 41 percent of businesses blocked tax receipts for May. This is a business climate. Who's coming to work here? 41 percent of businesses had blockage problems, and on the question, how many days later you're going to unlock their tax receipts, tax returns don't answer, because maybe it won't unlock them, maybe this activity will stop. So without the fundamental changes and understanding of our own, what we might be interested in building Ukraine and Ukraine's economy, there's nothing to do in London, even in Lugano, if we can't in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u181	Thank you. Please, from 417 to 423. I'm betting on the vote number 417 of the people's deputies and colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. That's what I'm talking about. 418th, I'm being tipped off. We've already voted 17th. Excuse me. 418th, yes. Thank you. [[14:46:44]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 419 law. Take into account the national deputy of the South and the group of colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:47:08]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 420 rights of the national deputy of the South and a group of colleagues. The committee's dismissed. I'll bet on it. Please vote. [[14:47:31]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 421 decrees of the People's Deputy of Jujanina and the Group of Deputies. The committee's dismissed. I'll bet on it. Please vote. [[14:47:56]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 422 rights of the national deputy of Jujanina and a group of colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Let's count on it. Please vote. [[14:48:23]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 423 of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina and the Group of Deputies. The committee's dismissed. Let's count on it. Please vote. [[14:48:45.]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And the next four revisions. Isn't that right, Nina Petrovna? Is this the last block or is it still on? From 424 to 27. Four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u182	I'm two minutes and we'll be done. I'd like to vote on this bill now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u183	Well, that's tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u184	No, that's not fair. Well, that's not fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u185	Nina Petrovna, well, that's possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u186	I'm making an effort to do better, aren't I?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u187	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u188	But I don't do it to you, I don't know who you're taking out, or you're going to put two dots. I say real things, so I'd like respect not only. Because on the committee, I always approve of the same situation in the hall. Well, you can't. I'm asking the electorate to understand that pluralism has no one to choose the next time so that there is some representation in all the organs that work for you, the honourable voters, and not such a unilateral situation. I'm just talking to the military one last time. We're going to continue to work on the sources and we're going to talk about the working group created by the National Deputies about the 30th return in the one that's acceptable to all of the editors, so that it's re-worked by the collective. Secondly, I'm going to the Budget Committee. Please put letters on the faction why the budget sequencer is not being prepared in any case. In any case, all the indicators already have deviations that require changes to the state budget. And the next. Please never say that there are no funds. Before that, we have to work first, and then make some statements, because it looks really weird. Now I've made a minimum list of what we could work on, and the reserves are even bigger. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-28-m0.u189	Thank you. I'll bet you four more votes. 424 revisions, please, are rejected by the committee. Let's count on it. Please vote. [[14:51:19]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 425 National Deputies of the South and Colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. That's what I'm talking about. [[14:51:41]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 426 People’s Deputies and Colleagues The committee's dismissed. The offer is to take into account. Please vote. [[14:52:04]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 427 People’s Deputies and Colleagues The committee's dismissed. Let's count on it. Please vote. [[14:52:27]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. It's all due diligence, I understand? Dear colleagues, thank you all for your effective work. I announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We're still working to win. Glory to Ukraine! With Constitution Day!
