ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-19-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Today, the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, participates in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let us also welcome those present to the plenary meeting of the leaders and representatives of the diplomatic missions of the countries of the European Union. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, before continuing the plenary meeting tomorrow, I would like to stress the need for sustained compliance with the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the opening and running of the plenary. Please take the responsibility of all colleagues to ensure the safety of our country’s only legislative body. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a pause in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme. The Supreme Council is working in a single plenary session, so today, according to the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war," we continue our plenary session. In good parliamentary tradition, we will begin work with the execution of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Today is the 330th day of full-scale military aggression by the Russian Federation against Ukraine. The racist terrorist state continues to fight against Ukrainian civilians, inhumanely inflicts rocket strikes on peaceful cities and villages, in residential buildings, in an attempt to destroy Ukraine's civilian infrastructure. During the days, the enemy committed another war crime by rocket strike against the city of Dniper, choosing a residential building that contained neither military nor infrastructure objects. According to the latest report, 45 people were killed, including 6 children, and 80 were injured, including 16 children. We assure you that all crimes against the Ukrainian people will be found and punished. Yesterday, January 18, there was a terrible tragedy in the city of Brovary in Kyivska, causing the death of 14 people, including one child, to be injured by 25 of them, including 11 children. These are serious irreparable losses for our nation, families, and loved ones. Among the victims of the plane crash: Minister of Interior Denis Monastirski of Ukraine, First Deputy Minister Eugeniy Jenin and State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Yuri Lubkovic of Ukraine and other citizens whom we knew and loved. I wanted to talk about Dennis. He was our colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine, the head of the Committee on Law Enforcement. He is a model of intelligence and professionalism. In the most difficult times for the State, he demonstrated courage and firmness and faith in the victory he worked loyally to establish the independence of our nation. Dennis Monastirsky was a true statesman, a light and a sincere man. That's the way new faces are supposed to be in power. A moment of silence, please, to honor the memory of all those who died in this terrible catastrophe. Let's bow our heads to the defenders and protectors who put their lives in Ukraine and all the victims of the aggression of the Russian terrorist state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, Mr. President, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, allow me to express my sincere gratitude to you personally and to the entire European community for the unity and firm and firm support of our nation in these difficult times. Since the beginning of the Russian Federation’s full - scale military invasion of Ukraine, our partnership has been strengthened every day. More than ever, we feel the help of European friends. Thank you for, along with Ukraine, protecting democracy, the rule of law and the right to freedom and dignity for every citizen. By supporting the long-standing desire of Ukrainians to live in a European family, our country is doing its utmost to start negotiations on the accession of the European Union as soon as possible. We look forward to a positive assessment by the European Union of the results of the seven recommendations of the European Commission. We highly appreciate the help we receive from the European Union: macro-financial, military, humanitarian. Thank you for your approval of the new macro-financial assistance for 2023, this is a major contribution to maintaining the stability of our economy. At the same time, it is important for us to increase the sanctions pressure on the aggressor state, including to stop rocket terror, to completely block the possibility of further missile production in Russia. We're counting on further active work in this direction. I would like to remind you that on October 7, 2022, the Ukrainian Parliament addressed colleagues from the European Parliament with regard to the establishment of a special international tribunal on the crime of aggression against Ukraine. And literally just now, the European Parliament almost unanimously adopted the Resolution on the Establishment of a Special Tribunal for the Prosecution of Crimes of Aggression against Ukraine. [[Applause]] This is the first, but perhaps the most important, step towards condemnation and a just and personalized punishment of Putin's terrorist regime. We are confident that, along with such reliable friends in the European Union, we will overcome the aggressor, restore international justice, and punish the war criminals who commit the genocide of the Ukrainian people in the 21st century. And today, despite the threat of air strikes and the real danger, our loyal friends are with us. Yesterday, Mr. President, I listened with great interest to your statement at the European Parliament. By supporting us in a consistent and comprehensive manner, you are determined to give Ukraine more weapons, especially tanks. Therefore, we thank you on behalf of Parliament for this. [[Applause]] This is a responsible and leading position. I believe that other world and European leaders will listen to it. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, a real friend of Ukraine, President Charles Michel of the European Council, is invited to speak. Hello.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-19-m0.u2	My friends, first of all, I would like to express great sympathy to everyone who suffered yesterday in a plane crash, not to mention all those who died during Russia's aggression against Ukraine. Imagine, I'm terribly sorry to be with you today. Almost a year ago we felt the same pain, we were just in great shock from the Russian brutality that we see today in Soledar, in Bahmut and what we already say, in many of Ukraine’s populous locations. The horrendous attack on the usual structure in Dniper, which resulted in the death of dozens of people. They destroy your infrastructure, they fire on your cities, they aim at your right to simply exist. What? But because you want to be free Ukrainians, you want to go your own way, you've chosen democracy, Europe. So by firing missiles at Ukraine, Russia is also firing what the European Union believes, firing at the very foundations of our Union, the Union that came after the victory in World War II. It's based on a dream of peace and prosperity, and in Maidan, after twenty years of independence, Ukraine decided to confirm that they were Ukrainian. And today I come to Ukraine to tell you, the people of Ukraine, that we are Ukrainians with you. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, since the first day of this war, we have understood that this is just an invasion of Ukraine -- an attack on our common European values, on our European security, on our common European principles and dreams. Dear friends, it's not just war, it's a strategy of systematic destruction to make you submit to be vassals. And this strategy will not succeed. Ukraine is proud, strong, bold. Winston Churchill once said that freedom and hope are the most powerful weapon in the fight against the Nazis. Your Honor, Nelson Mandela from his prison cell managed to liberate his people. And today Vladimir Zelensky is inspired by your common spirit, and this spirit of Churchill, Mandela, may be found in the hearts of every Ukrainian. I have seen both in Odessa and in Borodjanec, and in Kiev, you will win through this spirit. We're with you. From the first day Russia was calculated, Ukraine would not fall, nor would it fall. The European Union is united more than ever and our ties are stronger than ever. I have a few memories that are now in my memory. In March 21st, I was in Donbas with your president and I said that Russia was not a middleman, he said, and he was right. On February 24, this year, your president told me, "It's not just an expansion of the operation, it's a full-scale attack." Then he turned to the EU Council, to the 27 leaders, and he said, "Someone, perhaps I'm the last to speak to you." I was shocked, it was the moment that opened our eyes. We need to make bold decisions, and it was clear that this is not just about Ukraine’s fate, but about the fate of all Europe, the future of our continent, and what the Europeans inherited from their parents. Another important moment came in June. We decided to grant Ukraine candidate status in the European Union so that Ukraine would understand that it would be in the European Union. And we will do everything in our power to make this a reality. [[Applause]] Dear Mr. Head, my dear Ukrainian friends, I have a dream too. I dream about it soon. become either the President of the Council of the European Union or the European Commission, or the European Parliament. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am here today and I have come to express my support for you. And you know that 18 billion euros for the 23rd year is a guaranteed amount. We managed to help Ukraine export 45 million tons. And we've given shelter to many Ukrainian citizens, women and children, and we're going to give shelter to Ukrainian refugees. We're helping you win the battle field. You heard we need weapons, ammunition from your president at the beginning of this war. Literally three days later, a decision was made. Now these weapons and ammunition are coming to Ukraine. 11 billion euros we were able to mobilize to create a defense fund. We decided to train 15,000 Ukrainian soldiers. And we know that the next few weeks are really going to be crucial, so you need more PPO systems, more long-range missiles, and tanks that need them now. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're helping you both in the international arena and we're trying to do everything we can to isolate Russia. Nine packages of sanctions have already been approved, but this is not the end. We want to provide support to your country in Africa, Latin America, China, Asia. And at every meeting, we urge you to support your country. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that Ukraine will recover, that the damage done to Ukraine will be compensated, especially by those assets that will be frozen in Europe. And all those responsible for all this damage must be held accountable in accordance with international law so that all Ukrainian women, children and men who have suffered, all those who have lost their family, so that all those who fight in the field of battle, who support your efforts, who care for the wounded, can say that justice triumphs. We know you want the war to end aggressively. We share this view and therefore support President Zelensky's initiative -- ten points of the peace plan. The European Union-Ukraine summit is about to take place, and I hope that we will be able to express our support for Ukraine and its movement to the European Union. My brothers and sisters dear Ukrainians, you know what freedom is, you know what the values that we share with you, we Europeans, you decide to join our Union and you pay a huge price for it. We'll never forget. I met a boy in Borodjanka. He told me a story about how Russian soldiers attacked, his grandmother turned to them, and told me how he felt. He told me what he was thinking, what he was dreaming of. A child would never have to feel that way in Ukraine or elsewhere in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not forgotten this child's eyes. The European Union with you today and tomorrow, and we will remain with you as long as it takes to end this war that has caused so much suffering. I am absolutely convinced that this Borodian girl is having a much brighter future for you all -- a future in the European Union, in a peaceful world, in a prosperous society. We cannot think of a prosperous secure Europe without a prosperous security of Ukraine. There can be no free Europe without free Ukraine. Our future is forever linked. Glory to Ukraine! Long live Ukraine! Long live Europe!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-19-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, let us once again thank the President of the European Council, the leaders and representatives of the diplomatic missions of the member states of the European Union for their participation in the plenary and for Ukraine's consistent and unreserved support. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for taking part in the plenary. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation. For safety reasons, please do not spread information about its beginning. Together to victory! And glory to Ukraine!
