ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, before the plenary is resumed, I would like to highlight the need for the continued enforcement of the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the opening of the plenary session, its running and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. Please take the responsibility of all colleagues to ensure the security of the single legislative body of our nation. In the event of air alarm, there will be a pause in the plenary session, and we all have to go to safe places according to the cloaking scheme. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Decision "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war" concludes today the work of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. In line with part one of the first article 26 of the Supreme Council Rules, we need to register with the electronic system before opening the first session of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. I'll be right back. We restart first, the anthem after that will. I would like to remind you that once the registration is started, it is necessary to keep the sensor button pressed on the green "Z" button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the registration. Dear colleagues, please report to the Nationals. [[10:14:40]] There are 310 national deputies registered in the hall. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the honourable national deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine hold the ninth call and its plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At the same time, according to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Assembly and its first plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declare open. Let us begin the ninth session of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the 349th day of the Russian Federation's large-scale criminal aggression against Ukraine. Our courageous soldiers courageously defend our home land from enemy invasion, demonstrating daily the example of military victory and self - sacrifice. I ask you to pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of our defenders and protectors who fought for Ukraine, all the peaceful citizens who died as a result of Russian aggression. I also ask to honor the memory of the victims of the devastating earthquake that occurred yesterday in Turkey. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we express our sincere sympathy to the Turkish people, the relatives and loved ones of all those who died as a result. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information on the progress of the plenary session, which has been decided in Parliament before an hour after the end of our work. Dear colleagues, a list of issues that were previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, you have been given, and we are moving on to their consideration. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that the first three issues will be dealt with: first, without discussion, second, only with a speech from "European Solidarity" and third, without discussion. So let's just keep going. We need to start this session. So, with your permission, I'm announcing a proposal: let's move on to question 8422, this is the draft Billing Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2023. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the proposal of the Conciliation Council and the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Resolution on the Draft Work Plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2023 (Registration No. 8422). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:19:21]] For 296 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next 8426. It is a draft of the Order of the Day of the Ninth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We agreed, Arthur Volodymyrovich, two minutes, right? Who? Sophia Romanovna Fedina. And after that, we're voting right now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u2	In a recent resolution of the European Parliament before the summit of Ukraine, the EU stressed that Ukraine should, inter alia, ensure freedom of speech, loyalty to principles, political pluralism. And these diplomatic words are followed by very clear efforts, particularly: stop the political censorship, because the military restrictions have nothing to do with political censorship, and the closure of democratic Ukrainian channels has nothing to do with democracy. Stop the attacks on the opposition. We have a common enemy, Putin and the Moscow horde. If we fight together, we really have to fight together side-by-side. Stop reviving Parliament because we have parliamentary-presidential democracy, not dictatorship. And at the beginning of the session, I would like to point out that it's a shame that there is no President here right now, but actually a bunch of people in Ukraine think that we don't have a Parliament at all, and this is especially because of the raiding of the "Council" channel, on which a particular person is highlighted, spending millions and millions. instead of even in the record, but showing the work of parliamentarians. We're also running out of opportunities for Parliament to form a day order, and that's crazy stuff. And since we now have to set priorities for the next session, the first priority is our military personnel. What reduction in payments and wages, especially for those in the front and those in the hospital, does the restriction work 24 hours a day? We only adopted amendments to legislation for eleven months to relieve taxes and restrictions on drones and optics. Eleven months of this issue has been blocked, and we ask the President to sign these bills immediately. And yet, don't take our position as opposition. If we're united, let's work together!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please be prepared. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the Order on the Order of the Day of the Ninth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call (Registration No. 8426). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[10:22:32]] For 287 Decision taken. And the final vote for the session is 8405. This is a draft Decision on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war. I propose to accept in general, taking into account the committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Decision on certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war (registration No. 8405). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:23:20]] For 306 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, before considering the appointment of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to the meeting hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Zelenski. Please welcome the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, the Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are also taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council. Hello. [[Applause]] And at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council there are: Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Attorney General and Chief Executive of the Office of the President of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with paragraph 12 of the prim badge. Part one of the first article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine is under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of the President of Ukraine as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, pursuant to article 106, paragraph 14, of the Constitution of Ukraine, an application for the appointment of Malik Vasil Vasilovitch as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The right materials are given to you. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the Supreme Council’s regulations and with the proposals of the Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence, are proposed the following procedure, have been discussed at the Conciliation Council. This is a statement by the President, a statement by the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, within five minutes, questions by candidates from the national deputies, up to 10 minutes, a report by the Main Committee, up to two minutes, statements by MPs and groups, for two minutes. Together, up to 16 minutes, making a decision. Is such an order accepted? Then let us move on to the question. The President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u4	Thank you very much. Glory to Ukraine! Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Presidium! Ladies and gentlemen, the national deputies of Ukraine are present! Ukrainian soldiers, Ukrainian people! In accordance with article 106, paragraph 14, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I submitted an appointment to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Malik Vasil Vasilovic. I think this is the kind of assignment that corresponds to the purpose and purpose of this period of war. Basil Maluk is a combat officer who, from the first few minutes of a full - scale invasion, has defended the state of Ukraine and is absolutely committed to doing his job professionally. During the actual administration of the service, Vasile Maluk proved that the Ukrainian Security Service could be what the people of Ukraine want it to be. Ukraine’s security services perform successful and often truly unique special operations. Some of these operations have changed the picture of war in our favor. Collaborators in occupied areas realized that they could not escape justice. And this is also one of the gains of our Security Service. This is reflected in the decisions of the National Security and Defence Council, which are endorsed by the Ukrainian Security Service. It was possible to build a system to protect Ukraine from hostile special operations and opposition to Russian security forces. This has the weighty personal merit of Vasil Malek. This is the course of the Security Service we have and will continue. I would also like to highlight the role of the Ukrainian Security Service in returning our soldiers from Russian captivity. Along with our intelligence, with the Office of the President, and all those involved in the process of freeing our heroes, the Security Service provides the necessary, necessary, necessary results for our nation, the families of heroes. Thank you for that. [[Applause]] Thank you to each and every one for each and every one of us that we return home from Russian captivity. Taking into account such results and a full - scale war test conducted by Malek, his appointment as head of the Ukrainian Security Service is absolutely correct and justified. I also count on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support today's appointment, the appointment of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Igor Klimenka, an officer who has declared himself worthy of the protection of our State from the enemy, and who has the necessary knowledge, has the necessary experience to lead the system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine as quickly as possible. One more. We are carrying out human resources and institutional steps at various levels in the area of defence and security, which are capable of strengthening Ukraine's position. For each such human or institutional step, information is required at the level at which decisions are approved. And thank you all who support the state, thank you all for helping to preserve our important unity, which is the foundation of today’s defence of Ukraine. Thank you to all who refrain from spreading any rumors or pseudo-information that can weaken the focus of our people in the work on the main, to win Ukraine. Only by helping our nation, only by not letting the enemy play with the emotions of society, and only by doing everything to ensure that our warriors have more weapons can we ensure success for our nation. And we'll secure it. Praise all our warriors! Glory be to the Ukrainians, to the Ukrainians who fight! And glory to every one and every one who helps our nation! Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the floor for the speech is given to the candidate for the post of Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Vasil Vasilovich Malyuk. In five minutes. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u6	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! It is my honor to address you from this rostrum and also a great responsibility, because I understand perfectly the level of threats that have come before our homeland. What's more, I don't just understand it, but I oppose it every day with the Ukrainian Security Service team. I have dedicated my entire life to protecting Ukraine. I graduated from the Academy of Air Force, went from lieutenant to major general. He received combat experience in Donbasa, and from the first day of a full - scale invasion, he and his brothers protected the Kyiv region, Donetskin, Luhanskina, southern Ukraine, and from July he served as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. So I can talk not only about the new job plan but also about what we have already done. Today's HVC works systematically, this is confirmed by our results. We conduct unique special operations, detect Russian intelligence networks and investigate the war crimes of the invaders, fight the Fifth Column and the agents in the crowds, resist the inner enemy. We've completely re-formed the counterintelligence, including the military. The fights of the special operations "A" Center are extremely powerful. The investigators and cyberfachs, each unit of security in Ukraine, work around the clock. I can't divulge the details of all the serious operations where our fighters are involved today, but they are present at the hottest points of the war. In less than a year, six of them were rewarded with the title "The Hero of Ukraine." Too bad four of them are dead. Praise the heroes! We have over 500 national awards, most of which are "For Courage" and "Goddan Hmelnick". The names of these people will not be known throughout the country because of the specificity of the ministry, but they are carrying out overcrowding and overcrowding tasks. All processes related to the activity of the BSS have been completed. First and foremost. We're doing the President's job and changing our approach to work, not just holding the enemy back, we're working ahead. Let me put it briefly: we're building a new and modern model of state security, taking into account the experience of war, we're laying the groundwork for further reform of the BSS. It is also about systemic changes in the ministry itself, such as its maximum clearance from traitors, adapters, and those who have for years created a copy of the work. We are also conducting this cleansing. The other one. We reinforce our work by detecting and preventing crimes against the foundations of national security. A special focus on fighting collaborators, enemy supporters and traitors of all calibres, I emphasize -- all of them, there are no untouchables. Third. A comprehensive approach. The SBA should pay equal attention to counterintelligence, the fight against terrorism, information security, the opposition to international criminality, or the detection of corrupt officials. And finally. In the Ukrainian era, we honor a hero like Cossack Mama. In my office, there's a picture of him with a bandura, sitting on the skulls of the enemies of Ukraine. So death is the only perspective we can offer the invaders. [[Applause]] We have shown the whole world what is Ukrainian, and now we must unite our efforts and return our territories. And as Head of the U.S.S., I'll do anything to win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u7	Heroic glory! Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, I ask the National Deputies to sign up for a candidate for the post of head of the Ukrainian Security Service. I'll remind you that we're up to 10 minutes away. Please sign up. Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u8	Please give my word to my colleague Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u9	Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Vasile, unity is the key to helping us keep the enemy from the inside of the country today. The Armed Forces are on the front, we have unity here. But the distribution of fairies, it doesn't support this unity, it breaks it apart. As you recall, last August, I was lied to, and I was told that I was supposed to own a botopher or something. I realize that I'm on the agrarian committee, and the botofarms are, as I understand it later, to the Digital Transformation Committee. And this idiotic legacy of Bakanova, I don't think it's a crucial time to do it now. And from that comes two very simple questions. This was announced by the National Security Service press conference. So did you find these botofs or not, and if you did, who did they belong to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u11	Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u12	Mr. Gerasimov, thank you for asking. I'll give you a complete answer. The Botofarm, of course, was found. The investigation is carried out by the National Police, operational escort by the Department of Cyber Security of the Ukrainian Security Service. [[Applause]] In the 21st year, there were 21 botospheres, and in the 22nd year, there were 45. In no way did we tie the botosphere to specific names or representatives of the political forces. And the cybersecurity during the war, it's overwhelming, and it's creating fairy accounts. By the way, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the Ukrainian Security Service has repeatedly asked for a possible criminalization of such a disgraceful phenomenon. Because someone is artificially distorting social opinion. And we have fought and we will fight this further, especially in war conditions, without options. [[Applause]] Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u13	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Next, please, Chlapuk Maksim Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The Voice."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u15	Samantha Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u16	Good afternoon. Mr. Basil, thank you for yesterday's committee, many questions have been raised, hopefully we will continue to hear the answers in a closed way. And of course, one of the questions that I want to ask today in the presence of the entire room, and hopefully this will be shown on television later, is the situation with the Russian Orthodox Church. I'm not going to say this, to say that this is the UPC, more specifically the Ukrainian Church of the Moscow Patriarchate, the RPC, especially the Korean Women's Monastery, which is directed towards Moscow. Question: How many cases have been brought before the court, how long has it been, how long have they been punished, are you already on trial, or are you following the course and direction of the Security Service? That's the first one. And the second. In particular, there are many claims and comments from my colleagues about the work of the West Customs Security Service. The request to pay attention and to take such experts to the defense of the state, not to terrorism.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u17	Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u18	Thank you for asking. Regarding the Russian Church, I would like to remind you that the Ukrainian Security Service is not fighting the Russian Church, but it is showing the right enemy agents in the crowds, because the presence of lots and Cadillacs is not a mitigating circumstance, nor is it burdensome. We treat everyone the same way. [[Applause]] What's more, as to what you're interested in, if I'm not mistaken, 52 criminal conducts as of today, 19 appropriate suspects, among the articles there's a normal outbreak of interreligious hostility, and a correction of enemy fire, and a collection of relevant information for the enemy. There are also six court sentences, one of which is actual deprivation of liberty, even for 12 years, and there are already those we have exchanged, and there is one of Luhansk's representatives, who we exchanged 28 of our heroes, including many officers. [[Applause]] This shows how highly the enemy appreciates such an agency and understands from the context of your question, and generally from the logic of things, that the religious environment is quite conducive to the development of appropriate enemy agencies in our lava. However, I would also like to remind you that the Ukrainian Security Service respects the principle of freedom of conscience as enshrined in our Constitution. That's the first part of your question. The second part of the question. For the first time, I'm hearing about some sort of violation you're saying in Western Ukraine, on a committee yesterday, for example, I didn't even hear it. If there's any specifics, believe me, I'm willing to get both a written statement and an oral statement. And if anyone there behaves shamefully or violates the law, he will immediately be deprived of his position and still be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u19	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Please, the Gethmans Danilo Aleksandrovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u20	Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I want to thank you for your work and I want to thank you for understanding that we have not only an enemy on the outside, but an enemy on the inside as well. And that's why you've used a lot in your office to stop corruption in order to stop breaking the law inside our country. I want to remind everyone that it is because of Vasil Vasilovich's principled position that we have managed to close the factory in Yellow Water, which since 2015 has been producing illegal tobacco without paying excise duties in the state. I want you to be in the further as strong in resisting corruption within the state as you have been in opposition to Russian and against aggression. Thank you. I will support and call for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u21	Thank you. May I comment? A few words. Yes, indeed, we did. But I want to remind you that we're working on a counterintelligence vector, but in case there's a particular threat, including, in this case, how in the appropriate market for the circulation of subcontractive products, some of them have carried out the Ukrainian Security Service and have carried out the President's task. All equal before the law and no selectivity can be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u22	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. I think that's the final question, because time is running out, it's Friz Irina Vasilovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u23	Thank you. Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u24	Please, Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u25	Mr. Maluk, I have a question for you. When will the counterintelligence of the Ukrainian Security Service cease to engage in political persecution? And the second question. When does the feesbeak scum of Jermak sit down for treason? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u26	I'd like to stick to the Rules and Ethics in Parliament anyway. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u27	Mr. Leros, I would like to remind you that I am here to represent the thousands of troops of the Ukrainian Security Service. And these people defend the nanny every day, including doing everything you can to make a statement. [[Applause]] Please don't forget that we have a war, and I'm not a politician, I'm a soldier, I'm a special service, and no political game service is carrying out more political persecution. Everything you've said doesn't match any reality at all. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u28	Thank you. High-ranking colleagues, another question from the Presidium. Please, Olena Kostvena, and we're done here.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u29	Mr. Vasile, I have a question for you, I would say, for the future even, that's the question-please. I'm asking you to take a look at the situation: this is the training of specialists in the so-called "national security" specialty. At this time, the authorities have a government order number 256. I'm asking you to make sure that there are also civil universities, especially academics, civil institutes, because it's very, very important. So the question is, just a request to understand, because these are the necessary professionals that are still needed to be qualified and to work for the benefit of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u30	We'll do everything we can. Once I get out of the hall, I'll give instructions to my subjects and control everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u31	Thank you, Your Honor. Vasil Vasilovich, thank you. Please take your place. Dear colleagues, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence, is invited to the floor for the report. Please, Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u32	Following the commission of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on February 6, 2023, he considered the appointment of Malik Vasil Vasilovitch as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. As a result of the discussion, the committee approved the recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the appointment of Malik Vasil Vasilovic as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up from the MP factions and groups for a two-minute performance, and then we'll go to the vote. Please. The word is given to Dmitruk Artem Hennadijovich, a deputy group called "Delivery of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Murmitch Anatoly Petrovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u35	Anatoly Petrovich Burmich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u36	Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor! We, the "Deliverance of Ukraine" group, welcome the decision of the leadership of the state to appoint an expert at this responsible time. We are confident that Vasil Vasilovich will give us more authority in his place and will show us all the people of Ukraine more effective work at this particular time of war. I would also like to say that in addition to this threat of Russia's aggression against Ukraine, there is another threat to Ukraine: corruption. To date, the Security Service reform has not yet been completed, and this is the direction that is actually being eliminated. I'd like to wish that you, in your place when you're confirmed by your head, would look again very carefully, though, that I think the Security Service should step up the work in this direction. I think that until the reform is complete, so that we can re-examine and step in those directions so that there are no scandals that are today, unfortunately. And, I think that those sources of information that were once, when there was a main management "K," should be preserved, they should be given information so that we wouldn't get any surprises, they were working for the advance, and we didn't have the threat that we have today. So it's a very big wish. And in this room there are employees of the former Security Service, there is even a former Head of the Security Service, maybe we need to get together, think again and do everything we can to make sure that the Security Service's work and the fight against corruption is in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u37	Please, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, MP's "Platform for Life and Peace"
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Head, please pass the word to Grigory Mikolaiovich Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u39	Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the honourable President, the honourable ones are present! During the wartime period, when an assignment is recommended in the Supreme Council to support a person from an environment that has spent a great time in the ministry, it always brings praise and praise to the challenges he faces. At present, in the Supreme Council, including in charge, if the Supreme Council votes, it becomes the main issue, indeed, as has been pointed out, of counterintelligence, that is the first direction in which the Ukrainian Security Service works. But first, it is necessary to regulate the role of those who perform the functions, the role, the tasks that they discuss, and the society that they carry out the tasks, that is to strike at the enemy's controlled, uncontrollable territories. But we need to legislatively define their role. And I think that the first criterion should be changed in legislation. The second story is that informing the Social Security Service about the tasks, the operations, the special operations must be made more and more public by the criteria followed by the completion of the pre-trial investigations, the implementations that give rise to social resonance. This is, for example, Boguslaev's arrest, the Sietch Motor. But the role, please, is to inform society, the Ucroborprom that was at the time. Was this done without them or with them? Because all of us, as you've pointed out, should be in a complex. We will support the candidature and also recommend it to the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u41	Thank you. Please continue, Dear Mikolayovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u43	Please, Maxim Arkadyovich Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u44	We all understand that during the war, trying to attack the country's Chief Commander in the Supreme Council Hall will look strange. But we also understand that such an open attack on the Head of the Office of the President of the country is such a camouflaged attempt to attack the High Commander directly. During the war, I don't think that's acceptable. I believe that such actions are nothing but attempts to help the Russian Federation in this war. All relationships, if they do exist, if they do exist and have a basis, we will find out after our victory. But in order to win this victory, it doesn't have to be in this room. We have a responsibility, and we have the right to bear it. With regard to the candidate for the post of Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, proposed by the President. I fully support this candidate. I am glad that a year ago the Supreme Council took some time off from reforming the Ukrainian Security Service. So she met a large-scale invasion of the Russian Federation ready for this invasion. I will support this candidate. I urge everyone to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u45	Next, please, Gus Igor Volodymyrovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u46	Mr. President, Vasil Vasilovich! First of all, I would like to say that you clearly see the difference between your work and your predecessor, first of all, I would like to point out the patriotic position. Because it seems to us that all the patriots, but actually in action, primarily in the fight against the Fifth Column, you can see the position of the head of the Ukrainian Special Forces. So, no doubt, our team will support your assignment, the "For the Future" MP group. I'd stop at two questions that have already been asked here, but they're very important. It's still a question of destroying this fifth column in a bunch that needs to go on. Because so much, including in Western Ukraine, and I represent Volin, they're already relaxed: well, there, they passed, they looked, they hid everything and so on. I thank the President of Ukraine, who has paid attention to this for the past six months, and to the leadership of the state. We have to destroy this core that is now oriented towards Moscow. We almost destroyed the information space, we almost destroyed the political situation. But if we prove to the end of the war that this nucleus will exist, it will work against the Ukrainian state further. So I thank you for your position, and I hope that together we will continue. And the last. It's a question of the deployment of Russian IPSO today through tens and hundreds of cables, through tens and hundreds of thousands of Facebook groups and so on. I think we need to take a tougher approach today, look for tools, because Russia is losing on the battlefield, but it's trying to push the situation from the inside. In my opinion, we need to move even harder in this context. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u47	Please, I understand, instead of Sosun Inni Romanovna, Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, please, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u48	Dear Mr. President! Honorable Predestination! I mean, it's really wrong that as long as we haven't had the Head of the Security Service legally, so now we have to take this decision and appoint Vasil Vasilovich as Head of the Security Service. I want to say from my point of view what happened at the beginning of the war and were constantly in contact. This is, for example, the southern direction directly where the Security Service has played its key role both in operational tasks and in operational combat. It's probably going to be a little bit of a conflict of interest for me, because I am myself a colonel of the Ukrainian Security Service, and I'm talking about the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. But the service has, indeed, played and now those tasks that are directly carried out on the front line, they are key, and they are actually supporting our Armed Forces and the entire force of defense. The guys who are in the centres of special operations called Alfa, the guys who are in counter-intelligence, the new units that are created, they're doing the most complex and military and special operations. I think they're really going to be there, and they're going to be written in history textbooks years from now. So one more time. But, Vasil Vasilovich, I would still like to say that we have a special service to direct us to counterintelligence. I'd like to draw attention to the personnel assignments so that they can be considered more carefully and be more clear and understandable to both the Parliament and the Ukrainian people directly. So I wish you all the best, and I think you have a historical role to play here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u49	Please, Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, MP group "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u50	Dear Mr. President, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, dear national deputies to the Ukrainians! Of course, we are living with you today in a special period, during which the Ukrainian nation is being reborn, strengthened, reborn. And, of course, it's because of the difficult trials of war. A war where every day we should owe the bravest to our defenders, which enables us to work with you in our workplace, to gather here, in the hall, and every Ukrainian to work to help our military. Of course, national security issues need to be highlighted today, for this is very important. And the head of the Security Service will depend very much on this fight until the day of victory. And in the struggle against the enemy outside, and in the struggle against the enemy inside. Of course, it is right when we now appoint a leader of a person who already has experience showing the efficiency of work, working with a Moscow agency in the patriarchy, in religion, in returning our bravest from captivity home. And that's very, very important. And we support Mr. President's candidacy. Today I also want to tell you a short story. One young girl from Yavorova married a beautiful boy named Vladislav; he was a young officer; he was, and he protected Mariupol; and unfortunately he was captured. His father, Nicholas, has been fighting and winning since 2014, waiting for his son. His young wife, Julia, works for the army and waits for her husband at home to give birth to children. So I urge you to pay attention, however, to all the families of our captives, because they are very brave. And all their families are going through a lot. And captives of the legendary 24 brigades, of all weapons formations. Keep doing this job, like you do. So it's a productive work for you, the way it works.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u51	Please, this is my understanding that instead of Krulka, Cosmiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, please, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u52	Dear Mr. President! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Your Honor, Your Honor! I, the Fatherland faction, will vote in favour of the appointment of Major General of the Ukrainian Security Service, Maluk Vasil Vasilovich, because we all believe that the Ukrainian Security Service should be in charge during the war. I personally vote for the professional officer of the counterintelligence because I worked with Vasil Vasilovich. And we're embarrassed to see each other face-to-face today. But I would like, Vasil Vasilovich, with your permission, to hand over some things from the veterans. You know that when I talk to you, I do it. Today, there's a call from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the National Guard that they're creating "The Forward Guard." And you know very well that there is article 9 of the Ukrainian Security Service, which makes it possible to create and there should be military forces in the Ukrainian Security Service. So I have questions and veterans asking. Why of the 150,000 veterans that are in stock today, just in my unit, the volunteer formation that I'm in today, there are 35 colonels and lieutenant colonels, they're willing to protect the country. But they can't, because they're standing in another mobilisation, so others. I mean, the Ukrainian Security Service. It's very important. And I'm talking to you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, and I'm going to ask you to do the following. Do not believe those who may at times tell you that former security officials of Ukraine are betraying and working for other political forces. That's not true. There are a lot of people there with honor and dignity, and you know that. You have had such experience with those appointed by other political forces. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the final speech – Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity" Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u54	Dear Mr. President, colleagues! In fact, working with the Ukrainian Security Service for many years in the release of hostages, I know exactly what there are both heroes and traitors. In fact, we welcome the fact that the Ukrainian Security Service today says that we need to focus on fighting traitors. Mr. Malek’s predecessor was released with a very harsh formulation, resulting in heavy losses. And actually, the demand for justice that is in society today, it's waiting for investigation and evaluation, and what were the actions and the consequences? It's very important. We welcome the application to NATO. It's also very important. And our soldiers are doing everything today to make Ukraine a member of the Alliance. All we have to do is get the extras back to the army, they're very serious signals, because the military has to get the decent wages. That's our key question. As far as our homework is concerned, we need to reform the Security Service so that it can actually deal with counterintelligence and the protection of Ukraine’s territorial integrity. And there are two ways in this question: either counterintelligence will be, well, really key in the Security Service, or it will be a monster about political repression. And now it's time to close all these political issues, which are still there in the D.B.I., the S.B.U., about Thomas, about the counterattack in 2014, about the Kerchen Strait. This is going to be a very correct signal. It's about unity. We think we should support the Ukrainian Security Service in the fight against the Fifth Column. Let's take this room, and our faction here is the initiator, the laws that prohibit and eliminate this Moscow church. And we welcome the ban on promoskow parties, that's very correct. Only her deputies are in both the sessional hall and the local councils. Let's also do something about it. Because as long as soldiers are protecting our Fatherland on the front, we have to do the same to protect Ukraine in the back. And here.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. And before we go to making a decision, I would very much like the entire room to be filled with the same term that we're always talking about -- it's a question of unity. Unity is also a matter of internal responsibility. I'd hate for a second to be worth our future country. And I very much believe that we will all learn the lessons of history very well. As soon as we start fighting, we lose statehood. Let's do everything we can to make sure that both the Parliament and all the authorities today are the only ones more than ever, and let's demonstrate it by this vote. So let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with paragraph 12 with the 1st part of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Order (registration number 8425) on the appointment of Malik Vasil Vasilovitch as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:07:24]] For 324 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Show me the factions, please. Thank you. Well, colleagues, let's thank President Volodymyr Alexander Zelenski of Ukraine and invited to the plenary.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u56	We're continuing our work. Requesting to take your place, or taking a photo with the new head of the Ukrainian Security Service. According to articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the parliamentary factions of the political party "The Servant of the People", which includes the majority of the Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has the right to coalition of the parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council an application for the appointment of Klimenko Igor Volodymirovic as Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. The right materials are given to you. Dear colleagues, according to the Supreme Council Rules and the proposals of the Committee on Law Enforcement, the following procedure is proposed: presentation of the candidate by the Prime Minister of Ukraine for up to 2 minutes; presentation of the candidate for the post of Minister of Interior of Ukraine for up to 5 minutes; questions to the candidate from the national deputies of Ukraine for up to 10 minutes (1 minutes per question, 2 minutes per answer); reports from the committee for up to 2 minutes; statements from the deputy factions and groups for up to 16 minutes (2 minutes per speech); decisions taken. All right, 35 minutes. If there is no objection, I suggest we move on to the question. Colleagues, something. We can sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote? Colleagues are offered without discussion. "European Solidarity" against it, so please work with your colleagues. Dear colleagues, while we are all standing, let's welcome Dennis Anatoliyovich Schmigal Prime Minister of Ukraine, who is invited to represent the candidate. [[Applause]] In 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u57	Your Honor, Alexander Sergiyovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the Ukrainians! According to paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 and part of the fourth 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which according to part of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine has the right of the coalition of deputy factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call, I present the application for the appointment of Klimenko Igor Volodymirovic as Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Igor Volodymyrovich, everyone knows, too many words are unnecessary. Requesting support for this candidate to serve as Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u58	Mr. Igor Volodymyrovich Klimenko, Minister of Home Affairs of Ukraine, is invited to the floor, please. In five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, let's sit down. Have a little respect for the interior minister's candidate. Dear colleagues, well, you can sit down!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u60	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, please take your seats because you prevent those in the back from looking at what is happening in the front. Please. Either take your seats or act in a different way in the hall. Thank you. Please, Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u62	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Prime Minister, the honourable Parliament! Leading the Ministry of Internal Affairs is an honor and a personal responsibility to maintain the stability and leadership of the system in this difficult time for the country. The fact that the IMF system, as the back of security, stood up in the early days and months of full-scale invasion and in the further only strengthened, the level of confidence in it in that time has risen unprecedentedly, is certainly the credit of Minister Dennis Monastirski and his team. [[Applause]] And at the cost of our daily efforts and unfortunately irreparable losses, we continue to ensure the rule of law in the state and the security of our citizens. Since the beginning of the full-scale invasion of our country of the Russian Federation troops, which has been going on for almost a year now, the area of responsibility of the IMF has expanded considerably, the number of tasks and functions has increased: direct participation in hostilities, documentation of war crimes, elimination of the consequences of enemy shelling, extensive humanitarian disengagement, provision of public order in conditions of war and curfew, service at the checkpoints, evacuation of the population. Despite considerable stress, a difficult state of war in the state, the overall criminal situation is under complete control. All available resources and resources have been accumulated to make citizens feel as safe as possible in today’s security conditions. It is not possible to overestimate the work of rescue workers who are among the first to arrive at the site of enemy missiles and shells and often work under threat of new fire. The N.C. and the border guards, police officers, take direct part in the fighting, mobile fire calculations, and antiair defence, provide security for critical infrastructure, the state’s border, and maintain a stable situation at the checkpoints. All united with the main task facing every Ukrainian is the quickest victory. The Ministry of Defense has launched measures that envision increased fighting capabilities, a powerful recruitment campaign called the Guards of Attack, which began last week. We are creating effective storm brigades that will enhance Ukraine's defences qualitatively and increase Ukraine's power of attack. In the near future, the development of a public security strategy and civil protection, taking into account the challenges of war. We will ensure that the punishment is irreversible for anyone who comes to the land of our Fatherland with a gun, kills, robs civilians, destroys civilian infrastructure, housing and industrial enterprises that carry out genocide, energy and mine terror. It is no less important to focus on the battle against the entrails. [[Unheard]] That's the one that's eating. [[Unheard]] State, I'm talking about corruption. We challenge everyone who thinks that the law does not work on them, everyone for whom a state is just a resource of illicit wealth. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is not only about the security of people and the state, but also about quality services. Every Ukrainian citizen should feel the impact of our work, especially in the occupied territories and abroad. And this process should go on until our people can get home. There are many tasks, and each of these tasks is essential for the security of both individual citizens and states in general. On this path, we sincerely count on your support and profile committees, and all the national MPs for the achievement of our victory. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u63	Thank you, Igor Vladimirovich. We've got up to 10 minutes to question the candidate, so I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for a question to a candidate from the Ukrainian National Deputies. And I would like to remind you that I would ask everyone to comply with the requirements of MP ethics, please. Eugene Nina Petrovna, faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u65	Please, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Mr. Igor, first of all, I would like to thank those police officers who are on the front today, who are at all hot spots today, because we really see it every day, we appreciate it very much, and we will always support it. But I have two questions for you. Just before you were in front of Vasil Vasilovich Maluk, he said that the botophers that were attributed to me last year are being investigated by the National Police of Ukraine. You know, he answered and said clearly that he had found them, but he didn't say whose they were. Well, may I ask, then, whose botophers were they ascribed to me last year? And Mr. Igor, second question. Why do most top-corruption criminal cases today only open after the resonance and only after their coverage by journalists? Isn't that clear from your point of view about, let's say, the law enforcement system works improperly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u67	I'm sorry, I didn't hear very well because there was no sound, only the headphone was wearing a big noise in the hall. If it's all right, Mr. Head, can we do it again?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u68	The question was about botophers. Do I get it right? [[B in m in s a l in]] 30 seconds, please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u69	First question. Vasil Vasilovich said that the botofarms were found, which were attributed to me, but whose ones they turned out to be, he did not say. That's a question to you, because he said that the National Police were investigating whose botospheres were found? And the second question. Now, everything that's related to ball corruption, we see, only opens up after a great social resonance. Does this not indicate from your point of view that law enforcement agencies work improperly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u70	Thank you. I'll start with a second question. All the resources of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, such as the National Police, together with the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Bureau of Investigation are now targeting corruption. It's all the things we've been doing for a long time. You know that any corruptionist in order to document, it takes a certain time, a month, a month, a month, a month, two, and whom we're trying to detect from the wheel. So I can assure you that the system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, all of the things that we've been doing with regard to corruption, are all going to be implemented and properly documented. And whether or not there's a trend or not, it's our job to expose these corrupts. By the way, we've been working for the Ministry of Defense, the Security Service, the State Bureau of Investigation, for the past six months to document the entire group that was involved in the theft of funds. As far as botophers are concerned. Personally, Mr. People's MP, I'll give you an answer within one hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u71	Please, Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyevna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u72	Please pass the word to Sosun Inni.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u73	Another Romanovna Sosun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u74	Good afternoon. Mr. Igor, I have two questions. The first question is about a scandalous story that destroyed society, a story with girls who were drugged, raped, and then recorded in a video. It's very good that the police responded very quickly. But I'm very concerned that in this story, there's an open-ended "Promotion of Pornography," not "rape," which is particularly cynical, that it's the same article that's being followed by girls from OnlyFans. And here I think it's totally disproportionate when completely different crimes qualify for a single article. I would very much like to say, on behalf of myself, on behalf of the interfractional association of Equal Opportunities, that if legislative changes are needed to arrest rapists for the article Rape, please come back to us with these initiatives, we will definitely be ready to consider it. And I would like to ask you separately to keep in mind the issue of exchange, and it is also within your authority, and remember that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u75	Please, Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u76	As far as criminal conduct is concerned. We're investigating him carefully enough. Two members of this group are now in Poland, two are now in temporary detention. As for the girls, we've really been asking these girls right now, asking others questions, and looking at the whole scheme they've set up. You know, these guys have been distributing this information for a long time on the Internet, using drugs, and so on. As long as the investigation is ongoing, the results will be proven after the completion of the pretrial investigation. As for the exchange, you have to understand, 30 percent of Ukraine's territory has been replaced, and the biggest challenge I've reported today is on a law enforcement committee, the nearest challenge for March, for April, for May, for the exchange of the country's assets. To date, we have increased the number of State Service pyrotechnics out of emergency situations with the Prime Minister's support, and the technology that is now coming, including international technical assistance, will all be thrown out to exchange occupied areas in order to re-establish the power lines. First. And the second. They exchanged their strengths so that our farmers, the agrarians, could sow crops that would then affect the welfare of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u77	Please give the floor to the national deputy Paulisz Paul Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u78	Please pass the word to Francis Igor Pavlovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u79	Please, Igor Pavlovich Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u80	Igor Volodymyrovich, good afternoon. First of all, I want to thank my colleagues at Herson for the work of the Hersonian police, and give you my thanks. You know, in the last two weeks, I've had a lot on my mind. Sasha, would you excuse me, please? It's very interesting, I've decided whether a politician should lead the ministry or the professional police you are. And the thoughts were different, and they changed for the benefit of the profession at this time, during the war. But I have another question. On February 23, 274 voices of the national deputies supported the Weapons Law. I would like to hear your position as head of the Ministry of the Future and the Ministry itself on the framework that has been proven today in the second reading of the Weapons Act, with a brief home to protect families, relatives, loved ones and the home of a person. And how productive will the Ministry of Internal Affairs work in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u81	Look, first of all, there's no secret to anyone that the issue of arms after the war will be standing in one of the first places next to the reconstruction of the state. The framework that today defines the parliaments in which we will continue to work, which I think we are working together with the law enforcement committee, is absolutely clear so that we can control the process of arms acquisition by our citizens. When we understand all of these processes and these frameworks, and the limits of what's allowed and what's not allowed, then we'll be able to build the main control of the arms market. So if within and this is after a proper discussion, an additional discussion, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, of course, will support Parliament's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u82	Please give the floor to national deputy Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovich, who is non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u83	Mr. Candidate, I'm sure the hall will support you today. But I would like to ask you, as a minister, to draw attention to the city of Uman and the district of Umani in Cherkas, where I am being investigated today, for example, for my reference to more than 20 criminal cases involving the dissolution of Umani's budget, and a vertical integrated organized criminal group is in place. There is such a local businessman, Andriy Dikun, who today represents the faction, the party, unfortunately, "The Servant of the People," and that's why he's closing up a lot of things, the mayor of the acting Pletnov and others. And unfortunately, today, the investigation in Umani, headed by such a Mr. Baby, is actually doing everything in order to block the investigation of these cases. So I would still ask you to pay attention to this and to provide an objective consideration of these issues, perhaps even to take them from the city to the central level, because it has a huge impact, unfortunately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u84	Thank you. We'll pay attention. I'll look at the Uman district and Uman.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, the final question of Bondar Victor Vasilovich, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u86	Thank you, Igor Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, all who passed the first days of the war, remember very well the working together of the deputies who remained in Kiev, there were ten of us here, perhaps a maximum, and how fruitfully they dealt with all issues with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, including Minister Denis Monastirs. Including very fruitful work with the National Police, Igor Vladimirovich Klimenko. And I remember that any question was being resolved instantly: it's also by marauders, it's also by order, it's also a challenge when foreign agents were suspected and so on. And I want to support this candidature today, to support Igor Volodymyrovich, to wish that the same ministry would work effectively under his leadership, so there was an immediate reaction to any appeals and MPs and ordinary citizens. Igor Volodymyrovich, thank you, and keep it that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u88	Thank you. Yeah? Dear colleagues, I invite Igor Volodymyrovich to take his place. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Legal Protection, Sergio Costinovich Ionushas. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u89	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In accordance with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting this morning discussed the submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine of the appointment of Klimenko Igor Volodymirovich as Minister of Interior. Our committee has many professional lawyers, former police officers, judges, prosecutors, and lawyers. The committee, at its meeting, gave 18 votes in favour, with no objection. Dear colleagues, I support and offer to support the appointment of Klimenko Igor Volodymyrovich as Minister of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the speeches by the MP factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u91	Please, "Serve of the People" Laba, Michael Laba.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u92	Pass the word to Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u93	Bakumov, please, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u94	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable National Deputies! In the summer of 2021, I reported on the appointment of a minister of the interior of Denis Monastirski. Then, as I completed my report, I turned to the government and to the Prime Minister with the words, "Keep our minister safe, we've given you the most important thing we have, the head of our committee, our colleague and our comrade." And that's why on this very day I would like us to remember Dennis Monastery, to remember every member of his team and everyone who died as a result of this terrible tragedy in Barovara. Their eternal memory and their eternal glory! [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary of the Interior, today Parliament is taking this decision ad hoc, it is extraordinary, because we have lost a minister and we are going to have a full-scale war, a legal regime of the state of war. No doubt about your expertise and no doubt about your competence. You're a civil servant, and I'm sure you'll be able to handle the challenges facing the internal affairs system. The only wish, dear Igor Volodymyrovich, I will repeat what I said on the committee. The main thing is not to turn the Ministry of Internal Affairs into the Ministry of Police, but to balance the interests of every central executive body, border guards, guards, rescue workers, the State Migration Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u95	Heroic glory! Please, instead of Boyka, Mother, please, Grigory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u96	Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to pay attention to the second assignment for today, this is the appointment of a person who has practical experience, a special title, has the experience of working as with the National Police, but is currently being offered to serve as the minister of internal affairs. I would like to point out that the positions between the National Police and the Minister of Internal Affairs are different, the volume of work is totally increasing, and more of a political level, but it is also necessary to participate very actively in the provision of a special warehouse for the adoption and performance of the tasks assigned to protect our territory, our statehood. I want to draw attention to the initiatives that we would see from the Minister of Internal Affairs. First. It's to pay attention to the training of a staff because we have for the first time in the state of war. The other one. Initiate wage adjustment. Because today we have raised questions about the military's wage cuts in the room, but we also have a law enforcement unit, unfortunately, only after the Cabinet's decree is guaranteed social protection for wages, and it is necessary to bring this story back to normal, and I am also addressing the Prime Minister, by law. Then we can guarantee a normal salary on behalf of the state, not the Cabinet of Ministers. It is also necessary to develop the role of the Ministry of Internal Affairs' educational institutions in shaping that strategy, that development, that work in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We will support the candidature and also call on other national MPs to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u97	Please, Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u98	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium! Dear Igor Volodymyrovich! First of all, today, respected colleagues, is a very important moment. We appoint the head of the IMF system, which includes not only the National Police, which today not only protects public order, but also carries a military service, it includes the National Guard, which not only protects critical and dissident infrastructures, but also has combat units that are now at zero. It is also the State Border Service, which is carrying out its task, and the State Service is in emergency situations that are the first to respond to the challenges of rockets and other attacks. Igor Volodymyrovich will lead the IMF system in the future. I'm sure he'll be fine. And the position of the President that, during this period, the very power structures should lead the real fighting generals is the right position. And then let's go to reform. I, Igor Volodymyrovich, believe this is your good position to create a strike brigade. But yours, this is a new challenge and responsibility that will lead these brigades, their material and technical security and challenge, of course, the financial security of all the military and military structures. This is very important, because there are new challenges ahead of the new team. I want you to deal with them. And to improve on reform. Igor Volodymyrovich, you're a real fighting general, and remember, the reform of the IMF system is not just the names of the police, it's not just a change of cartess for a new one, it's a profound systemic change. And the system, unfortunately, has the property to resist. I want you to break this system and carry out a serious reform. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u99	Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Pottery Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u101	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear Mr. Klimenko, first of all, I wish for strength in my new post. It is obvious that you will now be appointed, and I want to say that this position of minister of the interior is extremely important in the country at all times, and during the war it cannot be overestimated. The fact is that the IMF is actually the second-largest ministry that deals specifically with the military, the people with the weapons that defend our country today. We talk to you very often about the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and that's right, these are our heroes today who are protecting the lives of every Ukrainian. But who are their brothers, who become shoulder to shoulder with our Armed Forces of Ukraine? This is the National Guard, this is the National Police, these are the border guards. Who today saves people's lives after the shootings? I saw with my own eyes how the Harkushkin police were working during the attack on Kharkiv, the Kiev and Kiev police, the Mikolayushina police. And this is an extremely important task today, which is on the shoulders of these people, these courageous men and women. So, Mr. Future Minister, I'd like to ask you very hard to ask about financial security and social support for these people, it's very important today. And we know that there are proposals for a reduction in cash both in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and in the IMF system. I think it's the wrong way. On the contrary, we need to look for ways to increase financial security, well, at least we have to support it at a decent level. Tell us, as future minister, what can we do for you? Where to stand next to you so that we can provide for everyone: the border guards, the DSNS, the police, the Nazis, and of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u102	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u103	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, dear candidate! The "Trust" MP group is very serious and is responsible for the appointment of a minister as one of the key ministries of the central executive branch. We understand how important this is in conditions of war today. And the main question is, how far does the candidate understand the depth and importance of those measures, those reforms that need to continue in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system in order to make it a real modern European ministry? And in this context, it was extremely important for us to hear that the candidate supported those reforms that had been initiated by the previous Minister of Monastery, who had defined the way the Ministry had developed just as a European one, one that would move from giving only police-powered functions to a vast range of services to meet the needs of the population. And this is of great importance today, under the conditions of a vibrant, nervous society, it is important to provide our people with peace and quality service. Of course, that will be all. We've also experienced this from the candidate's program presentation, and he has the necessary education, understanding the further development of the process. Therefore, the "Trust" MP will vote and support Mr. Klimenko's candidacy as Minister of Interior of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u104	Please, Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich, MP's "Delivery of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u105	Please pass the word to Dmitri Artem.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u106	Please, Artem Dmitruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear candidate! First of all, I thank all the police who have been defending our country since the first day and today, along with the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is one of the key in the state, and during the war, in particular. Igor Klimenko’s appointment as minister of the interior is logical, balanced, and thoughtful. Mr. Klimenko, in charge of the National Police, demonstrated a worthy result. During the war, our police proved to be particularly effective; the system did not just stand up; it preserved its effectiveness. Today the police with the people have never been before. I have great hope that Igor Volodymyrovich will not only be the engine of this great minister's machine but will also fight corruption. There are dark spots in this story, corruption exists in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system, and we have to fight it. We believe that you will do everything possible to overcome corruption in the internal affairs system. The MP's "Deliverance of Ukraine" supports Klimenko's candidacy for a minister of internal affairs and is always ready to lay his shoulders in the fight against corruption in our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u108	Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction. Please. Dear colleagues, and this is the final speech, and then we move on to making a decision. Please, Juršin Jaroslav Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Osadchuku Andrija.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u110	Andrew Osadchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u111	Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, Your Honor Igor Klimenko! I've talked about this a little bit before, and I've talked about it on the committee, and actually I think it's worth repeating. I do not consider Igor Klimenko's candidacy ideal for this position. And it's not about his personal qualities, it's about the structure of a ministry that was built in 2014, when actually five completely independent institutions are united into one organizational body. And all of these, how many? – for nine years, the Ministry has always been ruled by people who had no direct relevance to any of these structures and who were actually this balance of interest between all of them. The candidate is a general of the police, he can't do anything and he can't do anything, and he's certainly going to be a minister as a general of the police. And it's going to be a huge challenge for him to somehow balance the interests, motivation and unity of the entire ministry. As my colleague Bakumov has already said, I think I very much want you not to become Minister of the National Police, you have to do everything you can to unify the Ministry and move it on. I support the same rhetoric that it's critical for the Ministry to be run by people with combat experience right now, because the IMF is fighting, and not everyone in this country understands that. So in these difficult situations, I just want to wish you courage and success in this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Question completed. Let's move on to making a decision. I ask all colleagues who, including those who stand there, take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with articles 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Decree, registration number 8430, on the appointment of Klimenko Igor Volodymyrovich as Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:45:16]] For 321 Decision taken. Congratulations, Minister, on your appointment. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Minister of Interior of Ukraine Igor Volodymyrovich Klimenko is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Igor Volodymyrovich. Show the factions, please. Excuse me. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u113	I, Klimenko Igor Volodymyrovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. To victory. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to depart now, because we continue to vote on the continuation of the state of war without discussion. So I'm going to ask the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. 8419 is a draft law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the military status in Ukraine. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the period of military status in Ukraine (registration number 8419). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:48:20]] For 348 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next 8420. This is a bill approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the general mobilization period. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[11:48:50]] For 299 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we said that this question would need to be discussed, regrettably or fortunately. Besides "European Solidarity", which insisted on discussing another faction will be discussed? Then two minutes of "European Solidarity" and we vote. Who would please discuss mobilization? Jonah, please. Dear colleagues, it's two minutes, then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, besides, I think, mobilization, we have to speak in context, Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, we have to talk today about a very challenging issue, and this is the salaries of our military personnel. And the question of paying 30,000 is that of all the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I'm very sorry at all and it hurts to talk about this in today's hall, especially the day before and, in principle, every day, we see what kind of military action we have going on all over the front line. If we're talking about the economy, let's systematically look at what's going on in the back of the Armed Forces, which is also preparing to send for the front. It's not a secret that the Armed Forces and we as volunteers all have to buy from helmets, bronzes to chemical heaters and forms, because the State actually provides as much as possible, but unfortunately that's not enough. The military understands these complexities very well, but we would like to correct this mistake and pay the military because we don't have to take the money in our own army. And I want to tell you that you can do that. First. This can be taken from the government budget for 75 million dollars. Why aren't they touching the road fund? You can have it. The priority is the army. The other one. You can redistribute 2 billion from financing Russian-speaking channels, this is FreeDom and House, to the salaries of the military. May I? Sure. Third. There are programs in the state budget that are not at all important during the war. And our team thought it was about 4 billion dollars. So let's say the numbers that the military needs right now, and we're going to be looking together for the funds, and they're because anti-corruption policy has to be, bringing money into the state budget, not just showing it on TV. So let's work together to secure the army.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u116	Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] We made a deal, my friends. What? What's wrong? Otherwise, I'd write two in a row, two in a row. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, such a decision has been made on the Conciliation Council. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Continuation of General Mobilization (Registration No. 8420). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:52:14]] For 344 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. I can give you the procedure if you want. One minute, Samantha Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u117	Mr. Speaker, with all due respect, you understand that language is not a political speech, and that is the right of every MP to speak both politically and professionally. So I'm sorry, but that was really weird. This is the first time. Second of all, it's about mobilization. No one here will be able to meet the needs of the state and therefore understand what month we are going to enter and what will happen on three or even on four fronts. But even though I am representing the Security and Defence Committee today, I would like to address all the absolute fellow MPs to the Secretary-General of Defense, the Commander-in-Chief for the mobilization of men, especially the rural population. I think that both Western and Central and South Ukraine understands very well the approaches that are being used completely hostile and as it is in the Russian Federation, but it can't be in Ukraine: intercepting the street, taking the entire family, the V.C., which is absolutely a corrupt component, weird and anomalous, and illegal. It's these things.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, once again, if you don't mind, I'll just explain the situation. As a result, factions do not speak of national MPs but of factions. And today the Conciliation Council, made up of factions, has made such a decision that only one faction insisted on speaking. Duhtkov Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u119	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Yesterday the Supreme Council decided to consider Bill 8339 at today's plenary session, for which I would like to thank all my colleagues once again. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, here are the following bills they are most likely to have a long time to consider. So there is now a proposal to change the order of the day's consideration of issues and to go to the bill now under registration number 8339. Thank you, Your Honor, if you will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u120	We're working, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I'll make your offer, yes. Please, I'm putting in a proposal from Dmitry Alexanderovich. Please vote. [[11:55:02]] For 215 The decision is not taken. So let's go day by day, as it's supposed to be. Show the factions, please. 8399, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023. Ladies and gentlemen, I request that the first vote determine the bill as an urgent matter and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of the consideration of the matter. People's deputies are asked to vote in favour of such a committee proposal. Please vote. [[11:55:51]] For 251 The factions. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:56:14]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please two in favor, two in favor, and we're voting against it, right? Please sign up: two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u121	"Serve of the People," Kowalczuk, please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u122	Thank you. Please give the word to the colleague Pasic Alexandre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u123	Passionate Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u124	Dear Head, the honourable national deputies proposed by the bill of amendments are largely due to the question of optimizing the system of central executives. Without the adoption of this bill, which specifies the allocation of public budget expenditure according to government decisions, neither the updated Ministry of Infrastructure nor the State Agency for the Reconstruction and Development of Ukraine's Infrastructure will be able to work fully. The Fund to Eliminate the Consequences of Armed Aggression at the Costs of Restoration of Critical Infrastructure, Housing, Buildings, and Other Facilities is to be transferred to the Ministry of Infrastructure. The bill, through the participation of foreign loans and grants, will allow for the modernization and construction of health facilities, the provision of crossing points, and the purchase of unmanned aviation systems and state border monitoring tools. It provides an opportunity to support our economy by providing grants for business creation or development, for lending to agriculture. So let's work together today to support this project to make the necessary changes. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u125	Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u126	I'd like to give Nina Petrovni a word with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u127	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I see nothing changes in the work of this Supreme Council. No one analyzes anything. Please tell us, in the 2023 budget, that a separate Fund for the Elimination of the Consequences of Armed Aggression -- 35.5 billion dollars formed from the National Bank's additional accounts -- have been secured by the Ministry of Finance. Here I sat, or stood, the minister of finance and said that I was responsible for transparency, for the very direction of using these funds. We are now transferring to the Ministry of Kubrakov. Please tell me the 40 billion dollars that Kubrakov already has in place. Do we need to increase budget deficits, increase external borrowing to provide additional resources at this stage? What is the one billion 100 million dollars worth to the State for the restoration and development of the Najem infrastructure? A billion 100, but with a program that doesn't even have a direction of use. Read her assignment: development, development, and maintenance of road infrastructure. So Big Construction is going to continue. Not the restoration of housing, not the compensation for the cost of people who lost everything in this country when you're looking at pictures now after what the settlements look like after these destructive attacks by the Russian Federation. Get your hands off me, please! All those who now vote for these changes are the people who help steal, steal and steal more and more from the budget. And these scandals of the last few weeks only point out that you haven't stopped corruption, it's growing on such a scale that people can't react at all. You have the support or the support of others, but be alert, honest, and responsible. You can't vote for that!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u129	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, please, Fatherland. Krulko Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u130	Ivan Krulko faction of Fatherland. At today’s meeting of the Committee on Budget Affairs, a bill on amending the budget for 2023 was considered, and the bill, largely addressed and submitted to Parliament in connection with the merger of the two ministries, the programme names changed accordingly. In addition, the new ministry is united, and today it is simply not possible even to pay wages to its employees because of the restructuring. But in addition, we've been paying attention during committee meetings to what are the programs, such as the rest of the credit costs of international organizations and, in particular, the European Investment Bank, which are focused on the same goals but on other programs. These expenses are agreed with the European Investment Bank, with our international partners, and can thus be used for the very measures that Ukraine today needs to rebuild, the State Border Service, in order to strengthen the Ukrainian border, to rebuild the infrastructure that has been destroyed in connection with Russian aggression. The "Fatherland" faction considered this bill at its meeting during a faction meeting. We have decided to vote on it in the first reading, and for the second reading, we will make amendments to this bill. I ask Parliament to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u131	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. "The Voice" Tsabal, please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, we have also considered this bill in detail with the faction. We support the changes he makes with regard to the redistribution of funds, the goals for which he allocates funds. But like some of the previous factions, we don't have any changes in this bill that don't specifically apply to funds that are more relevant to the use of funds. And that's why we call, and we're going to make amendments to the second reading to make these changes. Accordingly, in the first reading, without these changes, unfortunately, we cannot support the bill. In particular, two things that we think we need to fix. First, it is, let's say, less important, it's an increase in the number of international agreements that relate to funding that do not require ratification. I don't think that's right, because as the Supreme Council, we do this function, and we don't have to trim our own control, our own legislative and international function of the Supreme Council. The second change is more critical. We have historically seen that we can trust the Ministry of Finance in how they distribute funds. They had communication, good communication with the International Monetary Fund, and other donors, so we were encouraged by the fact that the money of the recovery fund after Russian aggression would be controlled and distributed by the Ministry of Finance. This change that is being proposed is to be transferred to the Ministry of Infrastructure, although we have no claim to the Minister, but we know that this is a unified ministry also with the Ministry of Infrastructure, and after the last corruption scandals we realize that the entire system of this ministry cannot be changed. So we don't support this change in transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, they've all finished their performances. I'm going to ask the people's deputies to take their seats. We're going to make a decision. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2023 (Registration No. 8399) in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:06:17]] For 266 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Next, your honor, the next Bill 6085. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Electronic Identification and Electronic Trust Services. As I understand it, there are two amendments to Nina Petrovna of the South. Yeah? Nina Petrovna, repair number and then, in fact, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u134	I want to make two adjustments for confirmation. Amendment number 11 and comment. Dear colleagues, I think you've spoken and commented to all the committees more than once. It seems to me that this is the worst practice of this convocation, that before the second reading of the law is rewritten or in the new edition, we will continue to look at the law in general in the new edition. With regard to our committee, of course, amendments are often made either by the head of the committee or by members of the committee who violate article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And there's also an amendment that's made against a perfectly normal technical draft law, but decided to make a last-minute amendment that doesn't apply to the substance of the law, no article and the purpose of the draft law. And now they're going to say that it's, like, for the good of it, there.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u135	Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u136	It is very interesting to hear a comment about 116 articles from factions who, by and large, amend every bill passed through our committee in violation of 116 articles. You and I have considered the last committee of over 100 amendments, and it has been breached by 116 of the article by your faction. And with regard to this amendment, an absolute consensus amendment, a completely reasonable amendment that does not require two readings. The point is that these lighting devices, the light bulbs that are now distributed to people by the Cabinet of Ministers, should not be taxed. What should be done through two readings, do we all understand that this should be accepted and all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, 11th Amendment of the Guthmanszevo. It's a Southern. She's a committee member. The Southern puts it on confirmation. The committee requests that it remain confirmed. So I'm putting 11 amendments to the vote, please vote. [[12:09:33]] For 264 The amendment was confirmed. Next amendment 14. Do I get it right? Please, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u138	That's absolutely right. Now, dear colleagues, to let you know what's going on on on our committee: you're his word, he's two in your favor. And such contempt every time you talk to him. So it's actually very hard to overcome this cynical attitude, I don't know if our faction is saying anything all the time, it's not clear what. I am against these amendments because I spoke on the committee, there is a separate draft law that I have registered with my colleagues, which includes amendments that are included in this amendment, which was made contrary to article 116 of the Rules. Why not consider a draft law that also consists of two sentences, but which comprehensively solves the problem? This is a reduction in the verification period for VAT compensation, their return to the constant standard: 60 to 30 days, and the return of responsibility for non-timely foam VAT compensation. With what's on. In the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u139	Please, Danilo Alexanderovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I'll tell you what cynicism is. Cynicism is when you're cracking down on the deadlines for VAT checks just because it's an amendment in this law, not in your law that you signed. This is called politics, populism, and cynicism. And we've never been on the committee for authorship, we've never worked out the political colors. But defeating the right decision, which should take effect as quickly as possible, just to get on it on Facebook, is beyond, I'm sorry, all the more to war.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, the 14th Amendment of Getmantsev is counted by committee. At the same time, Eugene asks for confirmation. So I'm betting on confirmation of the 14th amendment. Vote please, Your Honor. [[12:12:02]] For 266 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we passed the law. I'll bet you an offer now. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code on Electronic Identification and Electronic Trust Services (Registration No. 6085). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:12:46]] For 276 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. The next bill is 6086. One amendment to Eugene's, right? Please, Nina Petrovna. Danilo Alexandrovich, 6086. Oh, it's not yours, it's Owl Alexander Georgievich. Nina Petrovna, what's the repair number? And we vote. Please turn on the Southern microphone. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u142	I don't think there's any amendments, but thank you for turning it on. If you don't mind, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u143	I'm sorry, if there are no amendments, what 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u144	Mr. Alexander, can you help me with what number is there?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u145	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u146	Then, will you let me make a deal?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u147	Correction number first, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u148	Number one, number one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u149	It's considered editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u150	That's very good.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u151	Come on, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u152	Thank you, colleagues, for your support. It's very good that the reporter changed, because with the previous reporter, it's a total conflict. I just don't understand why he allows himself to be like that. Why don't you consider separately registered draft laws of an unconquered faction unnecessary, keep them under review? Why do you think you're being so superior? Who gave you that right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand we won't put it on. The other one. What's the second amendment? The other one is counted. Please, who? Are you going to put her on the line? Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna. It's for confirmation, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u154	Thank you. Yeah, I'm going to be about the 2th amendment and the names in this session room. You know, we were just watching yesterday when Mr. Abramovich lost his mandate, and he was sung by such difirambs, that unless the monument was set up and the medal and order were given for being somewhere in the Monaco battalion involved in the profile committee, they said he was the most professional person there is. And we see a completely different attitude here for people who work conscientiously just because they represent the wrong party and the wrong faction. So it seems to me that when we talk about unity, it is important that we unite, not around names, but around values, and primarily show respect for fellow students. And two, let's just keep it the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u155	So you just abused your right and used 1 minute. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to propose that, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on Electronic Identification and Electronic Trust Services (Registration No. 6086). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:16:10]] For 282 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Motivator with motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u156	I ask that you change the order of the law and move on now, put to the vote, to Law 8339, and ask for your support for all the promotions and voting. Thank you. 8339.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u157	8339. I understand that you're suggesting that we change the order of the day and now we move on to question 8339, right? I then make such an offer for the consideration of the hall. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:17:07]] For 292 Decision taken. Here we go to the question, Bill 8339 is a bill amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service on the compilation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by officers of the military force for a special period. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:17:41]] For 258. Decision taken. Discuss, no discussion, colleagues? Come on. Discussed. The decision, why I ask, is a decision to discuss, but maybe the hall has changed its mind, so I ask. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, yesterday in this Hall 304 members of the people supported this bill being considered in Parliament's walls today. It's a really important bill that allows our defenders, heroes, heroes of Ukraine who defend our country to do everything they can to get another but important incentive to become officers, even if a person doesn't get a higher education. I would like to thank yesterday's committee meeting, all the committee members who made the right proposals to this bill. I'm sure they'll be further developed by the second reading. I would like to thank the foreigners who gave their vision of how to improve this bill. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Defence, who was on the committee yesterday and who took a constructive position, and also gave an accurate view of this law. And I would like to thank every national MP who has contributed to the drafting of this bill, and I would like to thank every college that supports it in the hall yesterday and today. We can work with you here, in the walls of the Supreme Council, primarily through the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and you and I must do everything that is up to us to ensure that we provide, help and honor our army with you. That's why I thank everyone. Thank you for your support and for your victory together.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two for, against the discussion of this bill. Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u160	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u161	Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u162	It's a very good initiative to assign names. And "European Solidarity" will support this bill. But I would like to point out that while we're taking concrete steps to support the army, the last vote, colleagues, you've taken 40 billion dollars in the army. So this is the kind of money that's now going to go up in the asphalt in no way in which regions are known, not in the war zone, but there's no cost to pay our military personnel a normal salary. At the same time, we would like to emphasize the need to raise the questions and rewards of our military personnel, especially those who were in danger of being part of the opposition political power: the Globe Babic, Yuri Karakai, Jaroslav Jurabel, and many others. They are not accepted as rewards simply because they dared to speak the truth, which is not entirely acceptable to the governing party. And one more moment. We have another bill in our agenda today, three times lowering the amount of blurry for S-class cars, expensive cars. And at the same time, if you vote for it, it turns out that you're spitting on our army at a time when we're taking back payments for our military personnel. Society, let's think about what we're doing. Let's finally get rid of your "hotels" and your private interests, which are determined by one or the other bills. Now the main thing is to make sure that our army is strong, so that it has a backside, that our military personnel have an advanced understanding of what you don't care about in the back, and you're doing things that only strengthen our ability to win, not the derelict budget for your own benefit.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u163	Please, National Deputy Francis Igor Pavlovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u164	Thank you, Mr. Head. Literally yesterday, as a representative of Ivano-Frankish, I was asked by the military to reward them for their war merits. It is the same question that the Supreme Council faces to make possible. maximum promotion of this issue, as is the one that is now being referred to in this bill. Allowing the military who are protecting our state today to receive an officer's rank without having a higher education in them should now be the primary vote for us national MPs. It's the least we can do for them. So, colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, and thank you all for having brought it up, and we have the opportunity to vote on it in this plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u165	Please, Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u166	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u167	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Authors of the Bill! I think the offer's really good enough. The appeals that come from those who defend the state today are the same as those that apply to the inability to obtain an officer’s title to those who do not have higher education. I think the question here is absolutely clear that we have people who have received higher education, but they didn't have a military pulpit, for example, and they have the right to do that. Others, who are in fact now in actual combat, take responsibility. We have an army that is built on the very foundations of NATO countries, where the responsibility of the younger composition, where the army is the responsibility of the officers, not the verticals that are driven from above is thoughtless, where they don't care about the number of casualties, the number of casualties, the main thing, the task and that's all. That's why the Fatherland faction supports this proposal. I think it's going to give the talented, those who are in the ranks today to move not only by military rank, but to give them the opportunity to be advanced, to be in the best position, that's why this bill actually fits not only the terms of combat time, but it fits, especially the conditions in which we are now every day. That's why the Fatherland faction will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, you decided today to work for the entire Voice faction. Dear colleagues, after that we will vote. Please, Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, a very important offer to support. We were looking at this bill on the committee yesterday. In fact, we have moments when the military officials have proven themselves to be sergeants as superiors, but because they do not have a higher education, they cannot get a military title, an officer’s military title. And our first task with you is to create conditions for growth, development, and to encourage the military to serve our nation. This is also about assigning officers, this is also about paying salaries, and let's say, once people come back, they create conditions for their social security. That's why we looked at it on the committee. We made proposals to the drafter who promised to make changes, that's the right thing to do, and they're going to improve this bill. That's why the Voice faction supports him. And we urge everyone to support it as well. Thank you for the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of this bill. Please take your seats, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service on the compilation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by officers of the military warehouse for a special period (registration number 8339). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:27:24]] For-300 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following bill, 8381, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Defence of Purchasing for Transparency in Defence Procurement (except for information on the purchase of goods, jobs and defence services, which constitute a state secret) to ensure the protection of public customers from military threats during the period of the legal regime of military status in Ukraine. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:28:10]] For 288 Decision taken. I propose to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the issue begins. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:28:35]] For 292 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:28:56]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we spoke on the Conciliation Council about the discussion. Should we vote for the basis without discussion? Discussing? Well, my friends, please sign up. Two in, two in. The word is given to national deputy Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u171	Please pass the word to Radiniya Anastasia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u172	Anastasia Olegovna Radina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u173	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please support this bill. This bill states that such scandals as eggs for 170 rubles of ten are no longer known in kilograms or whatever. This bill about what you can and need to open prices now for a unit in defense of purchase, so that we can be with you and the whole community, so that all the control organs can see how much eggs cost, how much shoes cost, how much shape costs, and so on. It's about trust, it's about what we now have to do proactively for the society that's at war. I'd like your support, colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u174	Please, Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyevna, The Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u175	Please give Jurchino Jaroslav a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u176	Jaroslav Romanovich Jurchishin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u177	We will also support this bill. And I would like to point out that it gives a positive perception, in fact, by the Supreme Council, which, without giving in to the hajpu, without actually giving in to the unnecessary politicization of a very important area of procurement in the Ministry of Defence, does its job, does not announce the landings that it is not supposed to do, does not call for executions there and so forth, but offers a system that can restore confidence in this area. A demonstration that virtually all purchases of so-called goods, food, fuel, other services will be reflected in the ProZorro system 10 days after contracts have been concluded do not pose any threat to national security, but systematically solve the problem faced by society and the Ministry of Defence. This was communicated with the Ministry of Defense, and they're also in the group following this proposal. So we urge everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u178	Thank you. Please, Andrew Jaroslavovich Lopushanski, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u179	Please hand over Sumar Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u180	Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, war is such a black-and-white world when it is immediately understood where it is and where the enemy is, and it is also clear that there is good and there is evil. And you know, I think we should be doing the same report here that we're doing right in this room and what not. Thus, all that the Armed Forces of Ukraine are to do today should be Parliament’s primary activity. Is this how it happens? This scandal that took place with the Ministry of Defense, with opaque purchases, with eggs of 17 bracelets apiece, with a chicken of 120 bracelets a kilo, with a potato of 22 bracelets a kilo, today it undermines the country's security. You know, I'm studying Russian IPSO a lot, and they're all writing, and why would you go to the army when you're mobilized, if that's what someone's profiting from. And this is a very dangerous situation, this situation needs to be resolved. And you know, I'm not sure that those who raise this question are to blame for those who have led to such opaque things to those who can't confirm to the Ukrainian society that the egg isn't 17 bracelets worth. That is why I thank Anastasia Radini for this bill, which has been signed by most anti-corruption committees. No one was disturbed by transparency. So let's not weaken the area of defense today, let's increase it, and at least in terms of purchasing food, this exact transparency is going to be the same as the reinforcement is going to be 30,000 for the military that they took off today. Believe me, this is a huge problem. We have no right before a powerful Russian offensive today to take money from the military, we have no right to demoralize the Ukrainian army. Let's put that back, let's forget about all these different, different skins. It's question number one today that needs to be resolved if we think about what Ukraine will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u182	Grigory Mikhailovich Nemira. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u183	Thank you, Mr. Head. It's quite obvious that recent developments around the Ministry of Defense have raised the top question of transparency in military procurement, and I agree that the trend towards transparency should be maintained. But, colleagues, let's think about it and let's each of us realize that the trend towards transparency, on the one hand, is correct, but on the other hand, every digit published in public space gives information to our enemy. And I definitely don't agree with colleagues who say that the number of purchases, not the cost, and the number of purchases is just information about nothing. But this information clearly shows how many soldiers we have in this region, if we're buying this amount of food or this amount, or this amount of clothing, or this amount of individual stuff. Therefore, we must be very careful. And I'd like to agree that for an army in this situation, we should have a clear, yet military force, with a lot of restrictions, with a lot of classified information that will definitely not help the enemy get information of a military nature, even if it's not classified or closed. Let us, on the one hand, be transparent, but let's be clear, so that the enemy can't get what he doesn't need. The Fatherland faction supports this bill in its first reading. But we're going to propose to the second reading our suggestions on how to make a balance between transparency and control and data protection. And we need to raise the level of parliamentary control of the Ministry of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, we still have Murmich Anatoly Pavlovich. No, it's not. We have factions and groups. What faction are you from? No, you're an MP, but according to the Rules, two is against the factions. Just to understand. Join a faction, you have experience. Please, Murmich Anatoly Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, of course, the "Deliverance of Ukraine" Group will support this necessary bill. I want to say that, in my personal opinion, the theft and corruption of the Ministry of Defense during the war are not just crimes, it's betrayal, it's betrayal, it's betrayal of someone who protects, who knows his life in the trench about our state, about us. This bill is only a small fraction to improve this situation in order to reduce these thefts or the negative moments that exist. I don't think we should just let this question go as a company. Every day, every month, we need to improve our tracking of the soldier’s feeding and protection of the Fatherland. That's why we support it. And I know our committee's position that we will continue to make similar proposals for improvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking you to take your seats. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Defence of Procurement on the implementation of transparency in defence purchases (in addition to information on the purchase of goods, jobs and defence services, which constitute a state secret) to ensure the protection of public clients from military threats during the legal regime of military status in Ukraine (registration No. 8381). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:38:37]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is still a proposal for the committee to cut back on the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading. Such an offer is a committee, we agreed. There's an offer, I bet. I would like to propose a reduction of the deadline for proposals and amendments for the second reading of Bill 8381. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:39:14]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following Bill 7198. This is a draft of the Act on Compensation for Damage and Destruction of Certain Real Property Categories as a result of hostilities, terrorist acts, diversions caused by Russian Federation military aggression. We had such information on the Conciliation Board that we have three minutes to give a speech to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko. No, you stay here, we've got to get out of here. Julius Volodymyrni Timoshenko, she'll speak, and then we'll vote on some of her amendments. And I understand there's gonna be a Voice for one minute. Yeah? Okay. Let's start with Julia Volodymyrna. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u187	Honorable colleagues, Bill 7198, are certainly in great need of a country that needs people who have no housing needed by anyone who suffers from war today and who no longer has a roof over his head. Of course, people are waiting for this bill, and our team will vote in favour of this bill. But at the same time, I would like to draw your attention to how to make it easier for people to get compensation for damaged or destroyed housing. And that's what our amendments are about, and I'd like you to put them to the vote. The first thing that matters is 50 revisions. It's about how a person's housing is valued, that is, the housing that a person lost as a result of a war -- bombed, destroyed. So the estimate is very subjective. What are we asking for with 50 lashes? To assess housing in the same way as today, an estimate of housing is made for tax purposes. This means that there can be no double standards, there can be no such thing that the estimate of housing will be much lower than the market value, and much lower than the amount of money that people need in order to rebuild their housing or buy or build a new one. The second thing that's very important is bureaucracy. It is not possible for people who have suffered so much, so cruelly from war today to get involved in long bureaucratic procedures that a person simply cannot go through. And then we have 164 turns, 293s, 382s, and so on. It is said that do not require the people of the mountains to obtain this compensation, simplify all procedures. You have registers where this property is, where you have an estimate of this property, where you have confirmation of this property. And you can't see in this law that a person would present the mountains of bureaucratic documents and go through all the circles of hell to get these documents from all bureaucrats. And that's why we're asking you to support these changes. For people, this compensation has to be immediate, immediate, without any bureaucratic procedures, and based on an estimate that is made for the removal of property taxes from a person. We support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u188	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna, you insist on making these adjustments, right? Okay. The 50th Amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko is rejected by the committee. Julia Volodymyrna insists that she be counted. Please vote. [[12:43:40]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 164th, by Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. Same situation: the committee turned down, Julia Volodymyrovna asks to be accounted for. I'll bet 164. Please vote. [[12:44:06]] For 104 The decision is not taken. The next is 293 amendments, by Timoshenko. The committee rejected Julia Volodymyrna's insistence on accounting. Please vote. 293 revisions. [[12:44:31]] For-98 The decision is not taken. The next one is the 382 amendment. The same situation: Tymoshenko’s authorship, the committee did not count, Timoshenko takes into account. Please vote. [[12:44:58]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. 457 amendments to the authorship of Timoshenko. The committee turned it down. It's on the table. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:24]] For-95 The decision is not taken. The following 464 amendments by Timoshenko. The committee turned it down. The author insists on counting. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[12:45:52]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. And Timoshenko's final amendment to Ulya Volodymyr is 570. The committee didn't count. The author insists on counting. I'll put this motion to the vote. People's deputies are requested to vote for 570 amendments. [[12:46:24]] For-98 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains rejected. Next, Greeb, 12th Amendment. Please give the floor to Mrs. Greeb to the National MP. 12 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u189	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, number 12, she's talking about what we need to do to make sure the enemy realizes that he's going to pay all the damages, starting in the 14th year. I can't understand why we've been restricting our citizens since they were 14, and we've been doing this return since 2022. It's not clear. So I ask you very much to vote in favour of this amendment. This will send our citizens from the east that we also care about them, that we do not separate them. If similar decisions are being made in international courts that aggression started since the 14th year, I don't understand why we don't. I'd like to support you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u190	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Greeb. In no way do we reject the need to compensate people who have lost their homes since the beginning of Russian aggression against Ukraine. But this bill, it's about technology that's already been applied since the beginning of a full-scale invasion. That's more, it's a few million people who have lost their homes, and according to the corresponding register where the lost housing and damage are being handled, because of the fact that this accounting and compensation technology is working. Unfortunately, it's not being applied or applied in the 14th year, but we're also going to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u192	Thank you. Are you insisting on this amendment? Are you insisting? 12 repairs, Grib. The committee turned her down. You've heard the side arguments. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:58]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Have they all spoken for these, as amended? Can we move on to the voting of the law as a whole? Who's there? Oh, Julia Leonidna Klimenko, please. God, I didn't see you, I'm sorry. How many amendments have you made, Julia Leonidivna?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u193	One hundred and seventy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u194	How much will you bet?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u195	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm sorry, I didn't have the opportunity, I wasn't invited to the committee, I wasn't invited to the task force, I wasn't asked to discuss this bill, despite having 170 rights. I understand that, the authors, the author's team under Mrs. Schuljak decided that there is no need for this, so I have no choice but to speak on these orders in the hall, so please give me a chance to have my 170 rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u196	Julia Leonidivna, maybe, that kind of proposal, I realize that they're all grouped into some sort of thing, that's all. 170 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u197	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'd love to, but the question is that the big law, there's 725 rights, my only 170. That's not to bet on confirmation. So I think I have the right as an MP and as a person who has the experience of public service of the former as to how this law will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u198	Holy right. Let's start with the amendment number. Correction number one, which one are you putting? July Leonidovna, repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u199	First. Number 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u200	Number 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u201	I want to say and start by saying that unfortunately, this bill, like many drafts relating to reconstruction, relates to changes in the target destination of land in relation to sustainable standards, is being completely discussed in a closed regime. There is no discussion with the MPs or with the public or with the citizens, so there is no other way to start talking about it in the audience and raise a debate. So I'm asking my first amendment number 3 to put it on the line, it was rejected and it was rejected because it relates to the compensation that I'm going to talk about in the next line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I place the 3rd Amendment of National Deputy Klimenko. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:29]] For 101 The decision is not taken. What's your next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u203	10th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u204	10th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u205	Amendment 10 speaks of a term like "compensation." In this law, the term "compensation" is defined, not "indemnity" or "indemnity". For example, it is possible to compensate citizens for being 80 years old. Or, for example, you can make up for the cost of the lamps, but you can make up for something else. So compensation is an internal one, it's an internal payment to the state, it's a citizen, it's not a future basis for reparation. Therefore, the honourable national deputies, the term "compensation" in this law, will in fact limit the ability of the state of Ukraine to receive further reparations and damages from the Russian Federation. This is an internal relationship between a citizen and a country, a state of Ukraine. So this is essentially this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, the 10th Amendment of Klimenko. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:53:02]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Julius Leonidovno, come on, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u207	23rd Amendment. So let's keep talking about compensation. This law refers to compensation, compensation (Warning!) for damages, will be paid exclusively for housing, exclusively for Ukrainian citizens who have lost or damaged housing since February 24, 22. So this law actually admits that the war and damage in our country, which the Russian Federation's aggressor state has done, started since the 22nd, not the 14th. And it's actually admitted that we've had a war since the 22nd. This is a huge mistake because in Ukraine there are no other laws on damages, reparations, and damage from the Russian Federation. It's the only law that is, and unfortunately it's wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u208	Thank you, Julia Leonidova. 23 Amendment of People’s Deputies Klimenko She's been rejected by the committee. So please identify and vote. [[12:54:35]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Next amendment, number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u209	Next issue is 24. Amendment 24, like number 23, tells us that in our country the war began in 2014. We have the same citizens of Ukraine, those who live in the occupied area of Crimea, in Donbas, and in the now occupied Zaporezian, Herson and other areas, as well as those who are now in unoccupied territories. We don't have different categories of citizens, we have some Ukrainian citizens, they have to be treated equally. Ukrainians cannot be categorized as paying damages and not paying others because this is a violation of the fundamental rights of Ukrainians and a violation of the Constitution. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u210	24 fixes, Klimenko. The committee is dismissed. I ask you to identify and vote. [[12:56:00]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Next number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u211	Your Honor, Mr. Speaker, I would like the author of the bill and the head of the subcommittee to give an answer. Please tell me why my next amendment is Amendment 30, why this law restricts rights, it actually does. Crushing Ukrainians in the first class and second class, why is the damage paid only since the 22nd year, just for housing and only in unoccupied areas? Please tell me, in what way is this segregation, why does this law violate the fundamental rights of all Ukrainians and violate the Constitution? I'd love to get an answer, not a refusal. I didn't get any answer from any of the authors of this bill, and unfortunately, I'd like to hear it at least in the hall. So make a big request, please, and not just I'll talk to myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u212	Please, I give the floor to a representative of the committee, because Mr. Movchan does not refuse, exactly. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u213	Thank you. Julia Leonidivna, in fact this bill will soon be one year old, we adopted it on the first reading of April 1, 2022. Since then, more than 2.5 thousand Ukrainians who have lost their homes have wandered around Ukraine today, around the world, without normal living conditions. Now it's actually a very big and complicated product, this bill. There is no better practice, the best practice in the world that can be taken and implemented for this case in Ukraine. That is why the bill has changed dramatically. Your amendments, they're important and they're part of the bill, but they're rejected in form. So let's not keep Ukrainians, 2.5 million Ukrainians homeless, VPO hostages, and we'll accept this bill in second reading, and then we'll discuss how to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u214	30 fixes, Klimenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:30]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidivna, what's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u215	34 revisions. Mr. Movchan, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at this time we have 14.3 million internally and externally displaced Ukrainians. And they all demand the support of the state, the restoration of damaged housing, and the acquisition of new housing. So please, not 2.5, but 14.3 million people, not including people who have suffered and left since 2014. So we will certainly accept this bill. But what you're doing right now is you're doing the only bill that talks about the damage and reparations of the Russian Federation so narrow and so small that we won't get any reparations from the Russian Federation at all, because it will come and say, the Ukrainians themselves have determined that they want reparations for damages from 2022 and just for housing. You're driving yourself away.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u216	34 repairs, Klimenko. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:58]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u217	39th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u218	39th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u219	The 39th Amendment says that there is actually compensation, as I said, for housing only. Please tell me, what will people who will return to Ukraine or who have moved to the interior of the country do after receiving apartments that they cannot sell for five years without jobs, without job creation, without business development, without additional incentives to get a job? You're turning neighborhoods into ghettos because you don't have to take care of Ukrainians, you have to build housing for the builders. This is the only purpose of this bill, actually. If you cared for Ukrainians, you would care for jobs, corruption, housing for 11 months ago. You've been holding this bill for 11 months.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, 39th Amendment, Klimenko. She's been rejected by the committee. So please identify and vote. [[13:01:28]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u221	The next amendment is 40, and I want Mr. Silent's answer. I want an answer. Please tell me, when and how will the damage to legal persons, natural persons, or damage to non-residential premises be collected? Can you please tell me when these damages are going to be collected? I'm not saying when they'll pay. I realize there won't be any payments because we don't have enough budget. But please tell me, how and when will they be gathering? Thank you for your answer. Mr. Silent, I want an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u222	Short. Briefly, please, Mr. Silent, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u223	Julia Leonidivna, would like us to be able to make amends to all the damage and legal persons, and to all the businesses destroyed, and so on. But today our problem is primarily humanitarian. People are living in terrible conditions, and people need to give at least hope that they do not leave Ukraine. And then we're going to solve the questions of both legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u224	40 fixes, Klimenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:00]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. I take it, 41st, Julia Leonidina?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u225	That's right, Mr. Speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u226	I'm already watching you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u227	And she's talking about the same thing. Mr. Silent and Mr. Speaker, I'm not talking about payoffs, I understand that our country doesn't have the money to pay for housing for everyone. Because if they were, you'd be building housing in both Irpen and Butch and Borodianca and giving money to those people who moved from Mariupul. But 11 months and as long as this law was in place, since April 1, 2022, you were not concerned about it, and now you were excited about it. That's my question. Tell me, please, why you can't collect, I'm not talking about payoffs, I'm saying why you're not collecting the original information about the damage that was given, that was obtained by legal persons, non-residential premises, businesses and everything. This is the primary collection of documentation, it's called in accounting, the primary documentation, which is the base then for tax checks.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u228	41 fixes, Klimenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:25]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 42nd next. Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u229	Exactly. The 42th amendment, my amendment, said that all the information that you collected from physical, legal enterprises in residential, non-residential, movable property, should have been consolidated and presented as the only claim to the Russian Federation on which compensation from the Russian Federation, reparation and much more. In fact, this amendment has been removed. And in general, the references, the references, or any amendments or texts about the reparation that the Russian Federation should pay, and the consolidated position of Ukraine before the Russian Federation, were removed from this text. Can you please answer why you, in favor of the Russian Federation, took a consolidated claim from this bill? Why we as Ukraine do not make a consolidated claim.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u230	A brief position for the committee. A brief position for the committee, Mr. Movchan.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u231	Mrs. Yula, this bill is not really about reparations, it's about the procedure for registering damages for housing, the damage that was suffered primarily by natural persons. There's the most simplified procedure, how people are going to file damage claims, and how they're going to convert their housing certificates into real estate, that's different. The problem you're talking about has to be solved, but not by this bill, by others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u232	42 Amendment Klimenko, she's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:32]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next up, Julia Leonidina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u233	48 amendments. Dear Mr. Movchan, if we're collecting such a heavy category as housing, and only in 2022, that means that payments by the Russian Federation will not be 100 percent, but 20 percent, as well as anything that is now frozen by our partner countries, international organizations, everything that is frozen, assets and costs of the Russian Federation will in fact appear to be only a small amount. Why? Because you're not asking anymore, because you're not collecting a lot of damages to present them and declare them at the political level, as well as the legal level, about the full amount of compensation to Ukraine from the Russian Federation, the reparations that are now with Crimea, I think, and Donbas has been reaching a billion since 2014. Sorry, $1 trillion. It's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u234	48 lacquers. Let us put to the vote, the national deputy Klimenko, Vasilenko and others. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:08:06]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Next item, what's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u235	60.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u236	60.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u237	The number 60 says the same thing. That the act of this law is confined exclusively to housing. And we understand why it's narrowed down. Because everything else is not interesting to you. You're not interested in developing businesses, you're not interested in getting investments, you're not interested in anything, you need to build housing, we understand that. But, dear fellows, we need to create jobs and we need to understand where we're going to be, what kind of work we're going to offer to people, a million people who are now fighting for us. We have a million people protecting us. There is no program, no understanding of how these places will be created. And no investors and reparations will come under this law. In fact, it's just going to be a huge ghetto that's going to be built exclusively in order to build a housing that's not going to be worth anything and nobody's going to need it. Because it's worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u238	Please, Alexi, are there any thoughts in response? Are you going to answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u239	Yes. In fact, we've created an appropriate fund, a fund to eliminate the consequences of armed aggression. It can be shaped by different sources, and it's not just reparations. The relevant bill that we are considering today is not about reparations, it is about how to give people housing and make sure that they do not live in 12 school classes, but four families live in apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u240	I'm betting on the vote number 60, the national deputy Klimenko and others. The committee is dismissed. Please vote. [[13:10:13]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. What's the next one?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u241	Amendment 69.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u242	65.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u243	Yes, I am going back to what is actually in Ukraine, there is no other legislation for compensation, reparations, damage collection and the presentation of Ukraine's consolidated claim against the Russian Federation for compensation for damages and reparations. He doesn't exist, Mr. Silent. And this law had to become fundamental in order for us to actually do it. There is no work at this time at the legislative level in relation to these documents. Our bill, which was passed in the 19th year, to the 20th on the agency that would take care of these reparations, and to the congregation, and to get information on the damage from the 14th year, has been on the committees and in this room for three years. And you're telling me there's no bill? You didn't even think of him.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u244	Again with the number, please tell me. Because 65th isn't yours. 69th, right? It's your 69th. Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u245	Ms. Julius, we can draw up an appropriate bill with you, taking into account the current circumstances, not those three years ago, but the current circumstances of Ukraine, and how to consolidate information about destroyed enterprises and other objects, and how to submit it to the Russian Federation for reparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u246	I'm betting on a vote of 69 people's deputies Klimenko and others. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:12:21]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Next item.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u247	Next line is 70. We will certainly develop this bill because we have no other option. If the party and the majority faction supports this castrated bill, which only applies to housing, it will certainly be your political responsibility. And you're going to tell your constituents how to go on living in the ghettos you're going to build for them. And also, for example, under this law, mariopolitans who have gone out and who cannot prove that their house has been destroyed will not receive any reparations. I'm sorry, no compensation, and the mariopolies who stayed and betrayed Ukraine, and now they're getting paid by the Russian Federation, they're getting paid. Because you've put in this bill the possibility of submitting applications for compensation through Acts on the basis of satellite imagery. Please tell me how you will prove which building in Mariupola is destroyed and which building in Mariupola is not destroyed if the people who are.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u248	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u249	In fact, with the electorate, we mostly talk about how to help a large number of VPOs who live in inappropriate conditions, like, what. How to deliver food kits, how to organize shelters, is primarily what happens in peaceful cities. And so I'm asking everyone, today all MPs have become volunteers and many of the deputies are working with the VPO, you know what conditions they live in. This bill to improve these conditions. Not about building new housing, they can take a residence certificate and trade it for already built housing anywhere in the country, it's about normal conditions, living standards. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u250	I'll bet you 70 votes. The committee doesn't count. Please vote. [[13:14:43]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u251	It's number 71.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u252	71.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u253	Dear Mr. Movchan, please tell me that your law provides that you are granting two types of compensation: the first is money for a special bank account that will be blocked and used in a given way, i.e. what a person can and can do with it, order is not set out in this law; the second is housing certificates that will be given to people who have lost their apartments. So the first money will be given to people who have lost their homes, their gardens, their homes. And those who lose their apartments get housing certificates that don't understand how to turn into cash. Because I want to tell you that in the secondary market you can't buy anything for housing certificates, you can only buy it for cash. Please tell me, why did you segregate like that? For those who have large and beautiful huts, a thousand square meters, they will receive compensation with money, and for those who had single - room small families in.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u254	71 revisions, position of committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u255	The cost of the accounts relates to the construction of housing. I mean, if you want to live, not in your apartment, but build a house, then the proper order will be set up by the Cabinet of Ministers, how to build a house behind you. If you want to live in an apartment, there is a suitable housing certificate that will be in order set up by the Cabinet of Ministers to convert to both primary and secondary markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u256	I'm betting on a vote of 71 people's deputies Klimenko and colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:16:48]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next item.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u257	The next amendment is number 71.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u258	We just voted it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u259	Excuse me, 72, yes. As we return to the certificates, let us be clear to colleagues who may not have read this bill in detail, which is residence certificates. First of all, in order to get a residence certificate, you need to first get a positive decision from your local commission, which is made by your local deputies, which are usually, for example, in the Kyiv area created by. It's like a separate trailer. So these are the deputies who created this commission, who first have to make a positive decision to pay you the cost, more faithfully, to give you a residence certificate. Then this residence certificate is passed on to an incomprehensible legal person who is not defined by this law but simply defined as a legal person. Not a banking institution, not a financial institution, but a legal entity. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u260	72 readjustment of the People's Deputy Klimenko. Vassillah. What? He's refusing to answer what you're going to do. They want to rest, maybe. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote, 72 revisions have been rejected by the committee. [[13:18:30.]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next thing you know, Mrs. Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u261	And I'll explain what a legal person is. It's prescribed in one paragraph, it's introduced into the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u262	What's that again?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u263	Oh, I'm sorry, number 73.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u264	73.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u265	Thus, a legal person in this law is prescribed by one line. This legal person is going to operate on billions -- not bracelets, but dollars. Because this legal person is not a financial person, no legal entity, this legal person is going to be defined by the Cabinet of Ministers, and they're going to miss billions of dollars of our taxes with you, the donor funds, the confiscated assets of the Russian Federation. And this legal person without any procedure will determine who to pay and who not to pay. Please tell me, who is this legal person? Please give me an answer. I want to get and understand under the protocol that this is a legal person, that this is a company that will be allowed to pass through billions of dollars, including foreign dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u266	Will you answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u267	Yes. Mrs. Julia, and 72, and 73 amendments, they're different. They are about compensating for the loss of movable property, moving property — automobiles, motorcycles, not legal persons. The legal person is the enforcer of the relevant rules in the legislation on compensation, he is a legal person defined by the Cabinet of Ministers, and there are no private organizations there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u268	I'm betting on the vote number 73 of People's Deputies Klimenko. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:20:37]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next item.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u269	74th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u270	It's not hard to guess.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u271	So regulation 74 also says that my bill adds that the costs other than budget, namely, taxpayers, which now go 100 percent to our army, were also allowed to be allocated to your programs that you stand for here, housing certificates, including donor funds, international funds, reimbursements received, confiscated assets of the Russian Federation that are being monetized by different countries, and sent to Ukraine. There's no reason by law, there's no harmonisation under your proposed law, there's a block in the law that says that any money can be channelled, and there's another, that payments are made within budgetary purposes, that is, exclusively budget costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u272	The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u273	In fact, the second reading is a corresponding article called "The Source of Financing.", it's number 13, "The Source of Financing Compensation for Damaged and Destroyed Real Estate Objects", and these are the costs of the state budget, the costs of international financial organizations, international technical assistance and reparations, and other acquisitions from the Russian Federation and other sources. I think the bill is very clear on what payments will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u274	I'll bet 74 votes on the election of the People's Deputy Klimenko. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:22:39]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u275	82 axles. 82. The amendment tells us that in the last 11 months, the Cabinet of Ministers, which we actually have the executive branch, has taken over the functions of everyone, from court to law enforcement, it's become, you know, a universal tool, somehow we don't have a division of power. So this Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which, unfortunately, is a lot of the sins that are being investigated by journalists right now, is going through a lot of other sources of information, where there's a lot of corruption in which two and a half ministers actually function, so this Cabinet of Ministers is going to set up additional categories of citizens. Please tell me. which will receive compensation. Since when is the Cabinet of Ministers going to be able to supplement the legislation that you and I are adopting here, which clearly defines who will be the recipient of these compensations? Why would the Cabinet of Ministers add?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u276	The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u277	Ms. Julia, 82 amendments is another edition of the title of article 2. So thank you. It's not about the extra criteria.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u278	82 amendments, rejected by the committee, national deputy Klimenko and others. Please vote. [[13:24:25]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. What's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u279	The next eighty-six, only seven hundred twenty-five rights, so we're kind of at the beginning. 86, number 86. Mr. Silent, I want to tell you that what you and I have with you is a dialogue, I'll tell you about one thing, you to me about the other, it's a typical debate when I'm on the subject and you're on the same page. So, of course, then the form will come out, and everything will be clear who the beneficiary of this bill is. But what I want to tell you is that when I ask you a question, no matter what you do, I want to get the answers essentially. When I ask, why is one category of citizens going to get another category, right? Why do residence certificates appear to be an incomprehensible legal person? I'm asking you, who is this legal person? Please give me a clear answer. I don't need it. I want to tell my voters who are in Butch, in Irpen and in many other regions, what kind of legal person and how they're going to get the cash.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u280	The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u281	Mrs. Julia, we started out with you because we basically had to work. you can work or offer positions to the last draft of the bill. No one hid it, there was a working group on the committee, plus a new working group was set up to deal with those issues that remained unresolved in the document. And that's why we can make decisions. And now you're saying that I'm taking you to form. We're holding 2.5 million Ukrainians who lost their homes and recorded it in hostages, discussing what to call compensation, whether it's compensation or not. Well, that's not really fair to these VPOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u282	I'm betting on the vote number 86 of People's Deputies Klimenko and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:26:51]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next, Julia Leonidova. Let me guess, 92th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u283	92 readout. Dear Mr. Mukchan has certainly vowed that 2.5 million citizens are waiting for housing, and he's beautiful at least because you and your party have been holding this bill for 11 months. 11 months! You didn't care about anyone and you didn't care about anything, and now you're talking about 2.5 million citizens who left, and they're going to leave. You know why? Because the rent in Poland is cheaper than the rent in Ukraine, and unfortunately no one is covering it in Ukraine, as you relate how you care. And those towns that you built in the Kyiv area with a 50-millimeter fuse, they are. Plus 16 there's cold, I'm not saying they're without kitchens, without the ability of the kids to be out there, without sharing rooms. So when you say you care about Ukrainian citizens, stop stealing and stop, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u284	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u285	Mrs. Julius, your amendment to compensate entrepreneurs. This bill does not provide for recipients of compensation for entrepreneurs – it's about housing. We have to build housing, we have to allow people to move into normal, quality conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u286	Amendment 92 deals with the vote of the People’s Deputy Klimenko. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:28:47]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next item.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u287	Number 94. Let's go back to the apartment and not the apartment. Mr. Movchan, once again, please tell me, when, by what law, how compensation will be determined for legal persons, for natural persons entrepreneurs, for natural persons who had non-residential properties, for valuable movable property, I am not talking about machines and motorcycles, nor about BMWs that come in there or the last maserates that come in your head, I'm telling you that people had combines, tractors on individuals, and they were their livelihoods, so that they could have farming. It does not, unfortunately, form a legal person in Ukraine. So I have a question. When all these legal persons and individuals receive compensation, and in what law they will be noted, and which ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u288	The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u289	Mrs. Julia, we need to develop and adopt this law. In this law, what you said is not stated, and it refers to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u290	Please put to the vote 94 rights of the People's Deputy Klimenko and colleagues. The committee's been rejected. [[13:30:30]] For-51 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u291	Next up, Julia Volodymyrna. Julia Leonidina, please. 96th. Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u292	Julia Volodymyrna is gone. Now we have Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u293	I've moved, Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u294	112 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u295	112th?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u296	112 correct, yes, Mr. Speaker. She's talking about the same thing, compensation to people. And I want to tell you that once again, we're going to be able to see that compensation is going to be spent on garden buildings, on special bank accounts that are going to be used with limited use. Please tell me, Mr. Silent, how and when the procedure will be developed, and why is it not in the law, how will this money be used? Because people who have received money even in a blocked account are better off than those who have received a residence certificate and are incomprehensible when they are able to cash it because of your charming legal personality that you avoid calling it. It's not a banking institution, it's not a financial institution, it's a legal person who's going to be redefined by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u297	Please give the committee a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u298	Mrs. Julia, first of all, I'm silent. It's just that we've got a long way to go and we don't have to be wrong. The other one. I've already answered your question about what's different about the person who's building the house for himself and why she doesn't need the certificates, and what's different about the person who's going to go into a built-in apartment who's given a certificate to exchange it for square meters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u299	The 112th Amendment of Julia Leonidina Klimenko She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:31]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidivna, what's your next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u300	Next 123, Mr. Speaker. And she's saying that the majority party decided to limit the rights of citizens, Ukrainians, once again by limiting the deadline to apply for military status plus one year, 12 months. Imagine, for example, leaving. You were forced to go with a child or with two children abroad, you cannot go back to Ukraine. It is certainly possible to make a good argument by means of Acts. The problem is that 30 percent of citizens or 40 people use the Action, and unfortunately others use paper documents. So the limitation to a state of war plus one year is, to put it mildly, rude. If it were possible to do at least five years for citizens returning from captivity who were injured, who could not form an inheritance, because their family had been killed because they were abroad and unable to go and file documents, because they could not.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u301	Thank you. Julia Leonidivna, this amendment is partially taken into account. Maybe we won't put or put, yeah? The amendment is partially taken into account, but Julia Leonidivna requires that the amendment be taken fully into account. I'm betting on Mrs. Klimenko's proposal for 123 amendments. [[13:34:13]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u302	128 revisions. So my 128th amendment was my proposal to create a non-commissioned local level, which is just as much as we would not want to have a clean policy at the local level, unfortunately, will be made up of people who have their own interests in the community. In many ways, these people will be interested in building up their contractors, in building up certain contractors, and in heating up once again, as we see it, now loud scandals and in Sumski district, where people are stealing the humanitarian machine, yours, assigned by your people, by your authority. So why don't you tell me why you don't want to and you refuse to correct me, to create a single agency that can collect damage and then make a claim and file it on behalf of Ukraine to get reparations and compensation from Russia? Why did you dissipate it so that it wouldn't be possible to make the only consolidated claim? Thank you. I want an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u303	Short.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u304	Well, first of all, physically any agency can't appreciate, and more precisely to invalidate the reality of the loss of that magnitude, unfortunately, and this experience in the world no one else has. That's why we decentralized the model in the bill so that it could be effective and that people could actually get compensation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u305	Thank you, Alexei Vasilovich, thank you. Please, Klimenko's 128th amendment, it's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:08]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidina, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u306	130th. Our powers are getting weaker, see? Less and less. Actually, I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u307	Can we conclude from this, Julia Leonidovno?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u308	No, Mr. Ruslan, no, we're leaving because unfortunately, few people read heavy and big bills, so we need to talk to them in the hall. And they need to be talked to society, because society doesn't understand why one person was paid compensation, and the other didn't get paid, why they gave money, and the other they gave a residence certificate, and they sent a legal person to an incomprehensible legal person. It's a question of justice that's going to stand right now and it's going to be very difficult after the war, because unfortunately, justice, we're going to continue to produce bills and to produce regulations that are unfair for one category of citizens and another. That's why I had to say that this was, in fact, an aggressor country. Will citizens, Russians, and Belarusians receive compensation as well as Ukrainians? And for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u309	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u310	Mrs. Julia, you have a typical one amendment that repeatedly repeats by text, replacing the words "compensation" with "harm compensation." So let's not repeat it many times, it's not about what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u311	It's 130th, the word "compensation" to replace the word "harm compensation." I put this amendment to the 130th vote, it was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:59]] For-43 The decision is not taken. What's next, Julia Leonidivna?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u312	137th. Dear Mr. Moychán, unfortunately, laws are not written under specific authority, more loyal to happiness, and not written under specific ministers, it has been written for many years. And this compensation law is going to work with you, after you and after me, and after many years, it's going to work in Ukraine, unfortunately, because we have great damage and great destruction, tens of years. So I want to tell you, for you, of course, it's not about compensation or damages, but for the citizens who will pay from their pockets, because they won't get a refund, and we'll all pay out of our pockets for the damage done by the Russian Federation, it'll be interesting. So when you say it doesn't matter and you're having so much fun, I'll tell you, it's not going to be fun. Because they're billions of damages that we can't get as a result of the reparations and the confiscation of Russian assets. So do this first and be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u313	A brief position for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u314	This is again the same amendment for word replacement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u315	137 Amendment Klimenko, she's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:31]] For-40 The decision is not taken. 140th, same please, Julia Leonidina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u316	140th, back to compensation. You know, when you ask colleagues from foreign parliaments, in fact, when you confiscate, liquidate, monetize and send them to Ukraine, they know what they're responsible for, they answer: and you have legislation, you've accepted it, what do you want from us, what kind of damage do you want? For roads, for housing, for businesses, for environmental damage, for indirect damage, Russia is now using Crimea, for Donbas, for natural resources that are billions of dollars. You cleared all of this out of the bill by doing the service of the Russian Federation. Because you didn't accept or accept another bill. Because this bill has been there for three years -- you're not looking at it. And this is a targeted policy to reduce damages and reparations. Therefore, compensation is important.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u317	Compensation is important, but you suggest replacing compensation with compensation. Okay. Look, I'm just willing to talk to you for a long time, because I'm a little bit of civil law and the Civil Code, and I know what articles 22 and 23 of the Civil Code say. And it's compensation (from the Latin compenastio) when it's impossible to calculate accurately, and that's why the term "compensation" is used when compensation is provided for 22nd, 23rd, 82nd chapter of the Civil Code, which is the basic principle of full compensation. I don't think you'll be able to provide full compensation when you approach. So let us take a closer look at this. But I'm putting 140 amendments. It was just a replica of a civil law professor. 140 revisions. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:43]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Next up, Julia Leonidina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u318	142.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u319	The same.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u320	Sir. 142th, it was 140th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u321	No, the meaning is the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u322	Look, I'm willing to argue with you about compensation. You know why? Because you said absolutely right, there's compensation for the damage that's to be determined to a penny, and there's compensation that's in general. So this Law 7198 defines a specific compensation for damage because it's up to a penny because they're giving you money and a housing certificate that says that the housing certificate is issued by Klimenko U.L. $38,454 bracelets 49 copies. And this is a very clear compensation for damage and then compensation. Unfortunately, we can talk for a long time about what we need compensation for both, but this bill defines a very clear and very specific amount of money for.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u323	142 Klimenko repairs. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:43:11]] For-41 The decision is not taken. You see, I do. Yeah. Next up, Julia Leonidina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u324	144 requisitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u325	It's the same again, Julia Leonidivna. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u326	Beautiful. See, in this bill so much, it's actually rewritten by 90 percent, so unfortunately, sometimes. The substance of the bill does not correspond to the number of the draft. Do you know why? Because the committee has taken and actually copied the bill with its rights. So, if you'll excuse me, let's change the procedure, or let's talk about something else. Because, unfortunately, you can't catch up when committee regulations determine, they copy the essence of the bill from beginning to end. So starting with compensation. The compensation will be one square metre, clearly defined by one square metre of destroyed housing. So destroyed. You know, there was a whole paragraph of compensation in the bill before the first reading and how it's defined, and now it's quickly cleared to the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u327	Dear colleagues, 144 amendments. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:47]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidina, before I give you my word, let's just, uh, let's do this. Look, you've formulated an amendment 128 so beautifully that we voted that the whole text of the word: "the appropriate committee" to replace the words "national agency" is understandable. As for compensation, you scattered all over the material. You can see that this position does not find support in the hall. I'm asking you to let us skip these amendments, which we've essentially already determined to, well, respect each other, Julia Leonidivna, if possible. Please, Julia Leonidivna, what's the amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u328	Number 150. You know, respect starts with people having a different concept, a different political position, as well as adjustments -- they're at least heard in working groups, subcommittees and committees, and that starts with respect, Mr. Speaker, and that's disrespect. So let's listen to the way things are going. And the layout. And the amendment speaks of the same thing as compensation. So, the Cabinet of Ministers over everyone's head: The Supreme Council, the Budget Committee, the available financial resources will determine how much it will cost, how much you will be given for your one square metre of destroyed housing, and we know how this is determined, you can see from 2014 on how it was determined, look at these methods, and see just who gets a fair price for a destroyed square metre, and who doesn't. So let's go, and this is manipulation, any large parameters as a square meter, as clearly defined for what to pay for, should be defined in the law and not.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u329	150 Amendment of People’s Deputies Klimenko The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:49]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidivna, before I give, I, look, I just want to support you here, I absolutely agree with you that these discussions should take place at the committee level. But I'm asking you very much that if that didn't happen, well, it's wrong -- 400 already 8 Supreme Council deputies hold to hold a debate that was to be held on the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to Julia Leonidina. Can I finish? Thank you. Julia Leonid, what's the next number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u330	155 right. Mr. Speaker, I've never abused any legislative spam or law enforcement in this room in three years. I don't know how this bill should have been considered to lead to a situation where we're all sitting and listening here, and we're getting answers, Mr. Silent, unfortunately. Because you don't answer any specific question that suggests, unfortunately, that either you don't understand it or you haven't read the bill or you just don't want to tell your colleagues who haven't read the bill and don't know that billions, hundreds of billions of dollars of compensation will be drained by a legal person who will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is not the most transparent body in our country, especially during the war. So please tell your colleagues, as you can see, how compensation will take place, what kind of legal person. Thank you. Please give a specific answer. I've tried six times already.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u331	Julia Leonidivna, he can answer in the right direction. Edit 155: the words "receiver of compensation" are replaced by the words "person receiving damages." Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u332	We've already discussed this amendment, it's rejected. With regard to the legal person, I'm sorry, any procedure in accordance with the legislation has to be carried out by some of the bodies defined by the Cabinet of Ministers. If you wanted to, you would have been assigned, but you can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u333	Thank you. 155 Amendment Klimenko, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:13]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u334	It's 156. The item is interesting: about the property valuation. The valuation of property under the de facto bill does not take place. So, as I told you, for damaged housing, they're going to give you square meters multiplied by the cost defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. What is this about? That the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, without appreciating your property, without appreciating your inner property, everything that's in the property, and so on, will give you compensation of 1 square meter, for example, $400, or $300, or $200. What you can buy for this and what property you live in is not clear. So I have one question: why don't you just tell me why you're not doing the property evaluation? Why you -- you have a special body of the Holding Fund, you have all the methods, there's the Property Assessment Act -- why there's no property assessment, and there's no damage.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u335	156 repairs, Klimenko. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:42]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Next up, Julia Leonidina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u336	Regulation 162.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u337	Again on compensation, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u338	Yes, absolutely. Here's everything, the whole law is called compensation, you know. So this whole law is talking about compensation. And the problem, what it's going to be, who, what companies, what makes legal persons -- yes, it's all about compensation. So say, please, around compensation: Why do you spend money on those who will, who will have their homes destroyed, for example, a garden house, why is it that money is not spent on apartments? Although this can be done, for example, on a special bank account that is blocked. Why does this not happen? Please tell me, why are some given residence certificates that they can only buy housing, which are already built either in construction or in housing construction, or which will be built sometime; and can others receive funds and manage as much as possible in principle? Because there is no limit to this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u339	So 162, Klimenko's amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:12]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidivna, what's the next amendment? 165th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u340	Amendment 165. It speaks of destroyed and damaged property. Yeah, well, for destroyed property there's money compensation or housing certificates, for damaged property in this law there's no procedure at all, because it's once again committed to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I want to tell you, in the Cabinet of Ministers, at this point, the Damaged Property Regulation and the order of payment is in effect. No bracelet was paid for it during this period of time. I don't know why this is happening, maybe because the Cabinet of Ministers was wrong about the decision, maybe the citizens don't know how to do it. But please tell me why this law, why the entire chapter on damaged property, which was before the first reading, is excluded from the second reading and actually all authorizations are passed on to the damaged property, which will be 80 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u341	A brief position for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u342	In fact, it has been ruled out in order to give a legal position that the order of compensation for damaged property is done by the Cabinet of Ministers, because there are a lot of nuances and it's an object of a separate regulation or law, or a sublegal one. We decided to go to law school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u343	165 fixes Klimenko. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:54:06]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u344	167 law. This chapter is coming. In general, this section of the right is about the establishment of a commission by local authorities that will actually decide on destroyed property, decide on compensation, more loyal to whom to issue for destroyed property to whom not to issue, and on the basis of this decision, a residence certificate will be issued. We have already said that these commissions will be created by local authorities. Maybe that makes sense because, in fact, damage is a lot around the country, and it's very difficult to create one centralized department because you have to have understanding in the regions. But these commissions aren't actually regulated, these commissions are not controlled at all, and the decisions of these commissions are not actually subject to a charge. There is no appeal procedure for decisions made by these committees, for if they have made a positive decision, it will be approved within five days. And if you don't agree with the value or what it's worth.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u345	167th, right, Julia Leonidina? A brief position for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u346	In fact, the commission's task is not complicated, the task is to invalidate on the basis of a list of documents, whether it was property, whether it was actually destroyed, whether it belonged to the applicant and all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u347	167 revisions. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:58]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Next up, Julia Leonidina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u348	Amendment 171. This amendment, like most other rights, refers to the submission of documents, their consideration, that a commission of voluntary decisions can, for example, suspend the consideration of documents of the person who submitted, because, for example, there is something missing or a person cannot provide documents because they have burned, as most have unfortunately burned documents in the destroyed property. When a person flees to a bomb shelter or when a person sees his dwelling burning, he does not take the documents, he flees, and the documents are burned inside. So once again, the discretionary powers of these committees allow any decision to be taken -- to stop, not to stop. These decisions are also made. They don't have any sequences with respect to the boozers that we're going to talk about right now. Therefore, the question of where and how the decisions of these committees are being challenged and why they are entrusted with such great powers.?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u349	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u350	It's a technical amendment to replace words again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u351	171 revisions. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:31]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Next up, Julia Leonidova.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u352	173. I understand that words don't matter in the bill, judging by what we've been hearing here for an hour. So in fact, let's move on to the committee discussion. So the committees that made decisions about what, for example, your home should be. The destroyed housing is worth so much, so much, and you get compensation, where it's written, that you issue a residence certificate or issue money on a bank account, if you have a garden house, these commissions may not only be made up of deputies or representatives of local authorities, these commissions may be made up of laws from experts, assessors, architectural experts, and in general a large list of those who might be on these committees. What's more, the number of these people.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u353	173 Klimenko repairs. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:00]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next up, Julia Leonidina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u354	The next 179 amendments. In fact, it refines completely incorrectly written, how it can be used, more faithfully, where a person can invest money. So a person can invest money received, more loyally, not received, but a residence certificate, which will then be converted through an unknown legal person, can invest in the primary home or perhaps into a secondary home. The procedure isn't completely written out again, but since it's possible to put it in the original home, it's actually a cabala for people, because people don't understand when they get money, non-residential certificates, housing certificates can't be paid for either primary or secondary housing, you can only pay for money. There is no guarantee that when a person receives money for a residence certificate, there is no clear definition of what the primary market is. In this regard, I want to tell you what I can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u355	179 revisions, Klimenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:28]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidina, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u356	181 revisions. 181 says that housing. What, actually. This is an amendment that applies to previous amendments, that compensation should not only be granted for housing that you can ever buy in the primary or secondary market. Living quarters are a more extensive and clear definition of where and how they are invested, including non-residential premises that may belong to natural persons, because natural persons may have ownership not only for housing but also for non-residential housing. Why non-residential housing does not seem to be incomprehensible, even more so, considering that, unfortunately, a very large number of accommodations are actually residential and are not actually counted. More loyally, they are legally deemed nonliving or vice versa. So this is a completely inconsistent position on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u357	For. Oh, my God, I'm sorry. 181 Klimenko repair. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:01:59]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidina, maybe a little. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u358	If you want to close this session, I don't mind, it's your right as a speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u359	I can't close this meeting. Such an interesting discussion, Julia Leonidivna. 183rd, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u360	183 law. 183 says that property is not only destroyed, it is damaged. Again, the damaged property is determined only by the Cabinet. How the damaged housing is compensated, which is actually going to be 80 percent, 80 percent in Ukraine is going to be damaged. Because if you've got windows, one corner, or an addition, it's a damaged apartment, if there's a foundation, and it's built on it, it's a damaged apartment. Regrettably, this law does not consider the category of damaged housing at all. He's not talking about anything at all. He's handing over everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u361	The position of the committee, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u362	Mrs. Julia, your amendment to moving property again is not what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u363	183 revisions. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:03:37]] For-33 The decision is not taken. What's next, Julia Leonidivna? 188th, I'll give you a hint. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u364	188th. That's 188 again on compensation. And you know what this law is about? The fact that compensation is not actually seen by most people because the right to pay this compensation is passed on to a legal person who is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and who has no procedure to pay or not pay. So at any given time, this legal person can suspend payments and let you know that you have a residence certificate issued by the commission, but they don't have money in the budget. Because we realize that there will be no big donor money tomorrow, there will be no large donors from reparations. Yes, we have modest budget money that we all pay. And actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u365	188 revisions, Klimenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[2:05:06]] For-26 The decision is not taken. From the procedure? Come on, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov is from procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u366	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, would like to point out that there was such an unspoken agreement between faction leaders that the meeting was no more than four hours after security arrangements. Because we all realize that the whole world and the Russians, including knowing that we have a meeting going and we are in this room. Why are you doing this now? I don't know. But honestly, why did we ask all of these things to be recorded in the ruling that you voted today without these paragraphs? Because the indiscreet agreement is that four hours plus minus is an indiscreet arrangement.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u367	Arthur Volodymyrovich, look, I'm just going to open the secret of the Rules that the decree will come into force when I sign it. And as soon as I sign it, it goes into effect. Now we're working on what they're for. That's the first one. The other one. You asked me a question, I'm ready to answer it. That's the first one. The second is about being here. I am also a proponent of civilizing us and resolving all these questions, and today we have set an intermediate point and are preparing for the next meeting. But it is the holy right of a national MP to make adjustments. I can't stop it. About four hours, once again, we spoke for four hours or until the daytime issues were completed. That was the arrangement of the Conciliation Council. And that's why we're waiting. Look, can I still figure it out? You'll be here in my place, you'll determine. Please, Julia Leonidivna, 188th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u368	It's the 188s.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u369	It was, we've already voted it, you're irrelevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u370	It's the 195th. It is your sacred right to determine when and how to close meetings, although in principle it is wrong, because you see that there are no people in the hall. It doesn't, and even if you close it, in fact, if I take all the amendments off, there are no votes for the bill. So let's keep going then, because, I take it, the meeting doesn't close and you can do it. Let's move on to 195, which, like all previous amendments, applies to compensation. Thus, compensation will appear to you to understand that commissions will be created not only in areas controlled by Ukraine but also in occupied territories. As you can imagine, Mr. Silent, how will you create a commission, such as in Melitopol, to determine the destroyed dwelling.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u371	The bill does not apply to the establishment of commissions in occupied areas, it is not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u372	Thank you. 195 Klimenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:08:26]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidivna, 200 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u373	200 repairs. Mr. Movchan, I'd like to quote the committee's report on the commission in the occupied territories. She says that within two months of the date of publication of the law, it is possible to ensure the creation and functioning of commissions to deal with issues of compensation, including applications for compensation for destroyed immovable property located in areas of the territorial communities situated in areas of combat and in temporary occupation, environment (blocking), in accordance with a list approved by the central executive authority. This amendment is yours, you're the author of this amendment, which clearly says that you're creating commissions in areas where fighting or temporary occupation is taking place. Please tell me, how are you going to create commissions in these areas? I've read this from the second reading in the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u374	Ms. Julia, commissions are being set up in a controlled area, physically unable to reach occupied areas. But people, employees of local self-government, executions, military-civil administrations, they do this here. Today we have the relevant central authorities, the executive authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and we have the district administrations in exile, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u375	200 Klimenko repairs. The committee was rejected, unfortunately. Please identify and vote. [[14:10:34]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidivna, maybe you can see there's no potential, let's do it through one. Julia Leonidina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u376	Look, 202 right. Look, I don't mind so we can take all these changes off at all. The problem lies in your committee, which: (a) does not invite right-holders; (b) in working groups that do not invite right-holders and (c) in the conceptual problem of this law. And the problem is that it's going to apply to 30 percent of our citizens. So when you say that it doesn't matter that you have to take it down, that you don't have to talk about it, it's going to apply. 30 percent of our citizens, 14 million citizens who have to return to their homes or to their newfound jobs and billions of dollars and euros and pounds that international donors and other governments can help us get from the Russian Federation, because 350 billion are frozen. Please tell me it's not important for this bill to be spoken one by one. Why do you force your colleagues to vote blindly?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u377	Julia Leonid, may I? Look, I said again, the first two comments you said were absolutely correct. And I'm going to ask the committee heads to do everything they can to ensure that the people's deputies can have this discussion with you on the committees and not bring this discussion to the hall. Because the hall shouldn't be held hostage by something the committee hasn't worked on. But I want to ask you, on the other hand. Let's not make hostages all over the hall, these people who agree in a lot of things. Let's not. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute, I'll finish. Julia Leonidivna, let's, if you can think about it, and really, where the same kind of amendments that have already been made to the hall, let's find a way not to repeat them. You can say anything within the limits of the new amendments. So it's just a request to you so that we can find an understanding. And while I'm putting 202 amendments, right, Julia Leonidivna, to the vote. The committee rejected her again. Please identify and vote. [[14:13:04]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidivna, which is next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u378	Next 207. It is certainly right that the Hall should not listen to all the amendments but should listen to the committee and the working groups. But unfortunately, you're doing everything you can to keep both the committees and the working groups closed. So we, as opposition deputies, have no choice but to suggest our ideas and political position in the hall. So if you'll excuse me, you'll have to listen to what's coming. So back to the commission in the occupied territories and under the war zones. You say some of them right.), some local authorities have their representative bodies or are assigned to an unoccupied territory, but property is in occupied territory and under hostilities. How will you determine the estimate, square meters, damaged it, destroyed, who will give you data, for example from Bahmuta now, either from Mariupul, or from Berdjansk, or from other cities? Please tell me how this is going to happen, it's a big corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u379	207 Klimenko repairs. Declined by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:14:34]] For-23 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidina, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u380	Next line is 212. That's what the next 212 says. This amendment is also about compensation. And you know what the problem with compensation is one more time? In that there is no aid for the consideration of applications and compensation for our soldiers who are now protecting us, for veterans, for orphans who have little left to do, for example, in Mariupola with destroyed property, damaged property, somewhere with murdered parents, so they don't have any benefit at all under this law, their claims will not be considered first, they will be considered in order of order. So if this orphan child, for example, has a guardian assigned or has all the documents, then she can apply, and so she'll end up at the end of all those who come with their thousand-meter houses and get compensation. Tell me, do you think that's fair, Mr. Movchan?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u381	212 Amendment to Klimenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:15:59]] For-24 Decision taken. Julia Leonidina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u382	Mr. Speaker, number 215. I'm missing, you know, I have a committee at 2:30, no, I'm not missing an appointment, I'm missing a committee where they're shooting a Coke. Nikolai Tishchenka, and in order to get information about Ukrainian citizens. You don't have to film it, do you? Whatever you say. My voice, unfortunately, won't be on the committee, so it will be. Because I think that compensation for Ukrainian citizens is much more important and much more necessary for them to do so. for justice and peace, not disunity between the Ukrainians after the war, after the state of war. My position is that we have to make laws, and that's why we sit here and listen to each other, so that the Ukrainians who came back from the front, the orphans who came from abroad, didn't argue with each other, didn't bribe the commissions, didn't bribe the builders, didn't give the lawyers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u383	Julia Leonidivna, the 215 amendment that speaks again of replacing the word "compensation" with the words "harm compensation," I'm putting her to a vote again. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:17:37]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidivna, you're missing a significant eunuch on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u384	I know, Mr. Ruslan, it's very important. But this is your colleague and your political responsibility. So what I'm saying is, well, how would you decide what to do with the gentleman, your colleague, Mr. Mikola Tishchenk? I'm sure there won't be enough votes on our committee to take it off, so enjoy your colleague. Now let's move on to compensation. As for the compensation, the benefits, we're talking about the benefits right now, we understand that the people who actually lost their housing and who need housing now are the ones who had the apartments that had the only housing. My suggestion was that you should take priority in limited resources, because we really don't have all the money to get compensation for those whose houses and apartments were the only housing where they were.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u385	217 Amendment, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. I'll give it to you, Ivan Grigorovich. [[14:19:04]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, he asked, I understand, with motive or procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u386	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I thank you for violating a little of the Rules and for giving me the floor to interrupt the consideration of the bill. But I want you to hear what I'm saying, Ruslan Alexiyovich, so you can hear it. Well, the situation is unseemly, really, and you're uncomfortable, and the reporter, and, therefore, the author of the amendments. I listen carefully to the discussion: Listen, she's saying serious things, my friends! And it's reflected, it's reflected, it's reflected, it's uncomfortable to reflect, because things are serious. But these serious matters should be considered on the committee. Ruslan Alexiyovich, we need to learn a little. I'm proposing to Julia Leonidni, and you have such a compromise: no decision will be made now, even though we're going to be able to make amends by 700, because there are no people. Ask Julia Leonidina to give her three minutes at the next meeting, but this law will send her back to the committee for a second reading. You need to study the committees, you can't do that! Well, the MPs weren't invited with amendments, principled, how could that be?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u387	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Dear colleagues. Do you want to respond? The position of the committee or the position of the author?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u388	In fact, it is not very good to find out the relationship in the Supreme Council Hall, but let’s say that it is not a political bill, it is a technical standard that is necessary for people living in inappropriate conditions today to live in classrooms, corridors, dormitories, not adapted to it, by entire families, in order for them to have at least the hope of having normal conditions, normal standards. There was no way that we would refuse to listen to someone in his position or in principle. The concept is different, it comes out of practice, from how data are collected today. So I would very much like to see many of the suggestions made by Juliet Leonidina taken into account. I'm splitting it up, but it's the other bills that have to be, and you don't have to stick it all in one piece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u389	Thank you. Dear colleagues, yes, 221st, Julia Leonidivna? Or maybe we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u390	Ruslan Alexiyovich, look, there are the principles of positions that will strengthen this law. It's not my goal to destroy this law. My goal is to have you, as deputies, because we all have no problems with this law, which actually discriminates against Ukrainians, actually discriminates against Ukraine in its rights to receive reparations and compensation, sends a completely unnecessary political message to our partners, that we want only a little bit of money to live with, not all 750. or trillion to our reconstruction. And it also totally discriminates against our soldiers, our orphans, and it also actually forces us to pay 19.5 percent of the taxes out of this compensation -- that's what we haven't gotten with you yet. It also provides a real opportunity for local authorities to speak to customers, builders without documents, which will lead to scandals and any different differences within. What do we want to do: Peace and tranquillity, or do we want to have an additional one again?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u391	221 Klimenko repairs. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:22:59]] For-22. The decision is not taken. 224th, Julia Leonidina, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u392	224 revisions. It's about compensation, like everything else in this law. And actually, there's another side to this law, which is very, very interesting to you as a lawyer. And this is the retreat of the destroyed dwelling in exchange for money. So in order to get the money, the housing certificate or anything, you have to own the property, the owner of the apartment, first withdraw it. Please tell me, where did you see Ukrainian citizens who would grant their residence before they received the money? Who's it supposed to be? For what it will be, people will write off their damaged and destroyed property, and then ever, when the money is in the budget, will they get it? How will this procedure work? It's completely unwritten in this law, and it can't be foreseen by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, because it's fundamental rights and private property.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u393	Julia Leonidivna, but the amendment to replace compensation. I'd like you to report the amendments after all. You have a second concept and you're absolutely right to say that you should be heard on the committee. But let's talk about the amendments in the hall so we can understand what we're voting about. This is wrong, to speak of one thing, and the amendment of another is: (a) unfairly and (b) this is contrary to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, where the rapporteur is obliged to report on the amendment, as provided for in the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Let's do it anyway. We're putting this to a vote, but I'd like to report back on the amendments in the following way, and that would be correct. 224 Amendment to Julia Leonidina Klimenko She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:25:06]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidivna, what's your next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u394	226th. Correction. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I agree with you that we have to report on the amendments, but please start with a committee that shouldn't do its committee work alone on the whole law. If there are amendments, there are amendments, not blocks, where the whole law is actually being rewritten. Let's start with the committee's work, its improvement, and then we'll certainly be very fruitful to speak here, because the claims to me that I want the hall to hear me, while the committee has the right to rewrite the law with its rights, are not accepted, because democracy and equal rights, they're all one for all, you know, whether you're on the committee or you're not on the committee or you're a deputy, because here all deputies have equal rights and equal responsibilities. And it is my duty to report, including under the protocol and including the record, that Ukrainian citizens, when they receive this compensation law, will know who is responsible for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u395	226 Klimenko Julia Leonidina, rejected by the committee Please identify and vote. [[14:26:35]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u396	232th, it's about commissions. The commissions, as we have already said, will be created by local authorities, and they will not only be created in areas. More loyally, local authorities that are not only in the controlled territory but also in the occupied or war - torn areas. I have one question. Please tell us where Melitopol’s occupied territory differs from the occupied area of Crimea. You've taken away the possibility and we have the Crimea's working organs that can make decisions about compensation, for example, in Crimea. Why did you give Zaporozhye County or the Zaporozhye community the opportunity to receive and consider compensation, and in Crimea you forbade it? Please tell me, what is the underlying position? I want an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u397	Short 232, though. The Council's justice, once again, replace the word "compensation" with "harm compensation." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u398	The bill refers to compensation for the loss of housing for the loss of housing after the introduction of the state of war after a full-scale invasion. Yeah, the war started in 2014, but today we're dealing with this bill with the greatest amount of problems just by the number of VPOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u399	Please, 232 revisions. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:28:25]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidina, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u400	I want to put 233 of the silent authorship on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u401	No, we go first, as always, we pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u402	No, come on, come on, we're going by the number line.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u403	No, we're not numbers, we always have order so that we're ours, and then we're confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u404	Next, 232 goes 233.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u405	Julia, look, we've got it. We've always agreed that we're going in this order: first they put theirs and then they're going to confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u406	Is that what it says? Who did we make the deal with?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u407	This is a parliamentary tradition that is regulated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u408	Unfortunately, these are very double standards of parliamentary tradition. I don’t want to continue to develop this subject, but I want to do something about it. I want to put 233 on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u409	Julius Leonidovno, look, I'd like you to finish your amendment, we're just following your amendments. What's your next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u410	Do I have the right to ask that?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u411	After we've gone through all the amendments that the committee has rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u412	Why is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u413	Well, yeah. Julie Leonidovno, what is your correction, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u414	My amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u415	Then we finished our discussion. Julius Leonidovno, what's your correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u416	I say 233 for confirmation. I'd like to put this on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u417	And once again, here comes the changes that are rejected, and then we're working on the changes that are going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u418	Mr. Ruslan, well, then let's close the meetings and calm down the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u419	No, let's hear everything you want to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u420	Absolutely. That's why I want to say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u421	I'm very interested in this discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u422	I'm thinking 233 to confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u423	Julius Leonidovno, look, first we're going to go through which are rejected. If you don't have any more amendments, we'll go to the amendments for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u424	No, I've had my reads, I'm just going for a number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u425	Look, Julia Leonidovno, the thing is, maybe someone wants to put the ones that were put up before. You're depriving them of that right now, if by number. Because you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u426	I'm not disbarring.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u427	No, just a second.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u428	They may be in the hall and placed quietly on repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u429	Julius Leonidovno, look, we agreed how? We gave Julia Volodymyrna three minutes, she spoke in a comprehensive manner, we voted in favour of her amendments. We gave Mrs. Greeb, she made her amendments, even though her 12th or 11th amendment, I don't remember, was much earlier than Julia Volodymyrna's amendment. You're going after your shifts. Now you're asking me to make an amendment to the confirmation by depriving other MPs of their rights, maybe someone wants to go back to the amendment that was counted first or second. Why are you acting like this, I don't know. That's why I'd like to finish with you. Please, Julia Leonidovno, what's your amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u430	Mr. Ruslan, you're absolutely wrong, because the MPs, since the meeting is not closed, should be in the hall and they should put their own in order. I'm not jumping on the 12th or the previous, I'm going on numbering. So your double reading of drafts for second reading raises questions. And of course, I understand that you need to do the will of greatness, but unfortunately that's very unfair for other deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u431	I have a role to play in Parliament. I want to emphasize again, and I don't think I've ever given it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u432	Any parliamentarian can make the 233th and continue to make the amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u433	Yes, of course. Let's go through all the corrections that are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u434	I want to put 233 on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u435	Julia Leonidivna, let's go through the amendments that are rejected and then we'll go to the amendments that are taken into account. You have no further changes you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u436	I've got it. I have a lot of changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u437	Then let's continue, please. What are your corrections and rejections, unfortunately, that you want the committee to take into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u438	Yeah, okay. Then I'll turn to you on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u439	Julia Leonidivna, look, you're already talking for the third minute, we're not hearing your amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u440	I want to pay attention to amendment 238. This is my amendment, it's not 233 Mr. Silent's, although you've completely wrongly denied me the right to put it on the stand, realizing that there are no votes in the room, so you're actually setting double standards for members of the majority and the opposition. This is very unfair, and I think that those who talk about reforming parliament should pay attention to this. And yes, I want to take into account the rejected amendment 238 which refers again to the same compensations, commissions and all that is involved. I would also like to point out that many commissions, more loyally, local authorities, in view of the U.S.S., will finance these commissions, your demands, from their pockets. So people who have suffered, for example, in Mariupola or anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u441	238 repairs, Klimenko. Declined by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:33:35]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u442	246 revisions. So on my way back to the commission. Local authorities and local self-government will pay for commissions that will decide on compensation for housing after your many laws that have robbed them of their extra income and given them a lot of expenses. These committees will be supported, not just by commissions, but by all their activities around these committees, namely, obtaining additional documents, evaluation, any other consultations. Everything defined by this law will be financed by local authorities. Local authorities are nothing more than local taxes that are paid by these (pay attention!) Distressed citizens. That is, citizens who have their homes destroyed will pay their taxes to receive commissions to look at applications for destroyed housing. Do you think that's fair? Or maybe the government budget should.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u443	246 Klimenko repairs. Declined by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:35:02]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u444	Many, many. We'll meet you here tonight.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u445	It's a beautiful company, Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u446	246. A beautiful company, we can talk about democracy. So there's no democracy in this law. Because, Mr. Ruslane, you are always in favor of upholding the Constitution, rights and laws, this law violates all constitutional rules on citizens' rights. It violates the basic principles of equality of citizens, Ukrainians living in Mariupola, who live in Butchi or who live in Zakarpat, or who are now forced to move abroad. They will not have equal rights under this law. They will have very complex procedures that they are being pursued not only in order to build housing that they may not need. Maybe they want compensation and they want to open a store, or maybe they need compensation for the apartment to open a store and create jobs. Why do you limit this law to billions of people?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u447	253. Isn't that right, Julia Leonidivna? Look, you've got some really cool stuff going on here. I'll even vote for her right now. Well, if you were talking about her, you know. A brief position for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u448	Edit rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u449	Thank you. I'm going to ask the leaders, the factions and the groups that are taking down the hall, take down the sectors of your groups, and see how many of your groups are there. That'll be fair. Please vote. 253, Klimenko. Declined by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:36:58]] For-29 The decision is not taken. See, you beat me up. I'll vote for the next one. I'm sorry. It's just me. Count my vote for it. I'll write a paper on myself. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you vote for the law? Come on. Next, please, Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u450	Amendment number 253. That's what this readout says.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u451	That's how we just voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u452	We voted 249.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u453	I've got 253 marked.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u454	Oh, we voted 253, that's great. 259. Then we'll talk about 259, 253.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u455	Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u456	This amendment says, the 253th that we voted for, and that you promised to vote for, but didn't vote, it says that from the compensation that citizens get, they won't pay taxes. But the committee and the task force decided differently. They didn't just decide. They were forced to give unnecessary housing, and they decided to tax this 19.5 percent. So all citizens who may be compensated for housing, whether they are needed or not, by housing certificates or, for example, by money, will pay 19.5 percent, and they will pay immediately, not when they get housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u457	259 Amendment to Klimenko. Please vote. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:38:47]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Next up, Julia. From the procedure? Please. Jacenko's out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u458	Dear colleagues, Mr. Speaker, let's close this meeting right now, it's ridiculously absolutely, it's about 20 to 30 people in this room and, let's say, the campaign is going. And it would be right to close now, and then come back when the next day is a sessional day, and we'll be able to look at this law properly. Thank you for your attention. A request to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u459	Put to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u460	Along with the law then, along with the law, to do so. No, it's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u461	Mr. Yatzenko, I want to surprise you, today we voted that we're not closing this session, it's going through the entire period of the state of war, we just have to get a little bit into these things. The other one. In order to make a different decision, we must vote in the hall. For some reason, I don't think the Hall will support that decision. So we don't waste time, we're looking at a very important law in Parliament with very important rights, and we're talking about it. Be ashamed not of those in this room, but of those who are not in this room. And I will continue, with your permission, the meeting. Let's move on. Julia Leonidivna, we continue the discussion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u462	Absolutely. 263. So 263 revisions, like everyone else, talk about compensation and types of compensation. By this law, a person does not choose compensation but chooses who? That's right, commission. I mean, if you're a nice person, maybe something nice was done by the commission, you'll get compensation for the money. And if you're not a good person and you're not loyal to the commission, you're going to get a housing certificate that you might be trading for money in 5-10 years, when maybe you don't need it, because you decided to stay in Portugal, for example, knowing that your own country can't offer you anything -- no housing, no work, no school. So the question is why you gave the commissions the opportunity to determine how to pay for destroyed housing rather than choose.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u463	Julia Leonidivna, I really listen to you, it's a great discussion, but the readjustment is to replace "compensation" with "compensation." Well, honestly, you can't do that. I understand. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u464	It's true, it's an amendment to another. Seriously, you're abusing a bill that's very important, and a bill that's very important to Parliament. Let's not swap ideas or say things that aren't written here. Ms. Julia, perhaps some of your ideas were not included in the updated concept. But that doesn't mean that everyone who hasn't been counted has to make all the adjustments, there's more than 700 grand, it's unfair to our citizens first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u465	263 revisions. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:42:19]] For-23 The decision is not taken. I'm sorry. Next up, Julia Leonidivna, what's the amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u466	266th. Mr. Ruslane and Mr. Silent, your double standards surprise me. Because when we're looking at, for example, the Energy Act, there we're looking at 700 rights, when we're looking at land law, we're looking at 2,000 rights, once we were looking at 5,000 rights. And you stand there and you tell me, and you shut your mouth. So I'm very much asking you to focus on the work of your committee, on the work of your subcommittee, on the work of the team of this great bill, which, in fact, did not account for 50 percent of the interests of Ukrainian citizens. So I'm actually here telling you that you didn't. This is my sacred duty. Because when Ukrainian citizens realize that they've been deceived another time, because they want someone to create schemes through legal persons and build housing, then you're going to answer politically and legally, and that's going to stay in the protocol for many years, in this protocol and in this one that we're talking about right now. Because what you're doing is totally unfair to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u467	Julia Leonidivna, I didn't realize what I was doing here, and what was the double standard? We view it as we do. 266 amendment, Klimenko – author. The committee's dismissed. We listen carefully to an argument that has nothing to do with the substance of the law. We're listening, we're voting. What is the double standard, Julius Leonidova? Please, I'm putting 266 amendments to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:44:13]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidina, what's your next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u468	268th and she's talking about how to compensate. Please tell me, Mr. Silent, is this the second time I ask you a question or a third time, why do some people get money for their belongings and others get housing certificates? Why is it paid without. Why is there no procedure for paying off residence certificates and, in fact, turning them into money to buy or invest? Because according to your colleagues who may have been preparing this bill, there is not enough money for everyone. Therefore, this legal person will determine who is to be given and who is not to be issued, and he will suspend payments when the money runs out. Do you think that's fair? Or maybe those categories of citizens that you care about so much about here in this room and you tell them they have nowhere to live, they live in dormitories, they get compensation first and they buy their own housing, not those that have thousands of meters of homes, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u469	Dear colleagues, 268 amendments. The position of the committee, if possible, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u470	In fact, there were a lot of ways to make up for it. There were both building materials and bricks and anything else. We've stopped on this model because it looks like it's the most reliable for implementation, the quality of implementation of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u471	Thank you. 268 Klimenko repairs. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:46:10]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Julia Leonidina, I voted for the last one, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u472	That's good. 271 revisions, and this is, in fact, the way in which the applications for compensation are dealt with. And once again, I insist, and I wrote this in my papers so that you can figure out that the benefit categories of citizens, namely our military, our veterans, the children of orphans, could have the first, their claims should be considered first, because they are the ones who need the most, and those who need to be given the right, because otherwise it would be totally unfair. And it's really going to be accepted by all Ukrainian citizens that soldiers, orphans get first. So please consider an alternative. I just honestly don't understand why you excluded it from the bill and gave such discretionary powers and the ability of the commissions to determine independently. Don't count the tips. Why this was done is incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u473	271 Klimenko repair. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:47:38]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidivna, please, what's next? 275.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u474	Next 275. And in general this chapter, it goes about, in fact, how applications will be submitted and how applications will be considered. So in these committee papers that you did, I quote, "Article 5. The schedule for consideration of applications for compensation for destroyed immovable property Claims for compensation are being considered for the cash flow of each settlement and for the way in which compensation is granted." This means that the commissions themselves will determine discreetly which statements to consider depending on, for example, the method of compensation. If you said you wanted a residence certificate, you're the first to be seen. And if you haven't said you want a residence certificate, you're being examined. For example, you want cash for your house, you're being looked at last. I think it's a discretionary mandate.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u475	275, Klimenko. Declined. Please vote. [[14:49:08]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Please, next, Julia Leonidivna. What are we discussing?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u476	We're discussing the same thing on compensation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u477	Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u478	Well, compensation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u479	Let me guess: 281 revisions?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u480	281 revisions. It applies, like everything else, to compensation. And compensation will be given, in accordance with this law, once again, to those who live, for example, in Butchi and those who have asked for residence certificates. And those who live in Irpen, for example, and ask for money will receive the last. And all of this will be determined by the commissions that will operate on the basis of these local authorities. Please tell me why such discreet powers, which will lead to clear corruption schemes, are already laid down in this law? I mean, is corruption already in place at the stage of this law? Why create them in an equal place?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u481	281 repairs, Klimenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:50:30.]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidivna, 284, that's what I'm looking at.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u482	284th. And my amendment applies, like everyone else in this law, to that. the collection of data on all damages, housing and non-residential, legal and physical persons. I'm not talking about payment, I'm talking about, basically, collecting all the information and putting it in the register. Because your law provides for a register. So housing and non-residential -- it's the same, it's the same damage. It's just that this law determines that first we pay for housing, for example, for housing, and then everything else. Why do you not want to include in this law housing and nonliving, gathering information for all the damage in Ukraine? Why, in fact, is this circumcised only at the level of housing? This was unfair, for the physical person could not have had an apartment, but he could have had a shop. Why can't she, this store, for example, get compensation to make up for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u483	284 amendment, written by Klimenko Julia Leonidina. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:52:03]] For the 18th. Julia Leonidina, what's your next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u484	My 285th, and she's talking about valuable property, moving. Once again, you don't have to pay for this valuable movable property right now. We know how many farms were destroyed, how many technicians were destroyed, how many were destroyed, I don't know, the combines and everything that had physical and legal persons. Why don't we put them in the register, and let them wait until we can take the money to the Russian Federation and then pay them? Why do we not allow individuals, for example, to notice in the register that they have more damage than just an apartment? That doesn't mean they're going to be paid now, that means they are, and we can consolidate these damages and give them to the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u485	285 Amendment by Klimenko, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:53:12]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. 288.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u486	Yes, there is potential. This whole chapter speaks of compensation for damages, more loyally, ways and procedures for redressing damage. There are some very interesting details when, for example, it is said that the commission may suspend the consideration. Please tell me, why can the commission suspend its consideration of its choice? Why, for example, a commission that has to get all the necessary documents from the registers itself by law can stop and say, you know, I decided to stop your review, please come in six months or six months, when you might get some documents, copies. And maybe you're there, I don't know, into the right legacy? So the commission discreetly determines who has it, who has the full package of documents, and then maybe. And even with the complete package of documents, it may require additional documents. And then it pauses until you bring this additional document.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u487	288 Amendment by Klimenko, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:54:42]] For-16 Once again, the potential is gone. Correction not accepted. Please, what's next, Julia Leonidivna?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u488	Amendment 302. 302th and 306th -- they're talking about the same thing. They say that a natural person cannot get information about the state of his application and, in fact, he cannot require copies of the documents from the commission. I don't know who did the editing, I think it's more like a mistake or a misinterpretation. Because if it's true that the commission doesn't, the commission doesn't issue, for example, copies of decisions or explanations of why it's stalled, or any other documents. So the question is: Why should the commissions give such opportunities? Because the commission, you said it right, Mr. Silent, should be a technical organization that gathered and automatically determined who to give, who not to give. If this has any discreet powers, we know, unfortunately, that this leads to corruption schemes, and we see it all from the humanitarian to the money distribution for reconstruction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u489	302 Klimenko repair. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:56:11]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. And immediately in 306, you two reported it, right? 306 Klimenko repair. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:56:37]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Julia Leonidina, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u490	Regulation 312. Going back to the commission and the way they pay off, the commissions, after they sit down and decide, for example, that these people here, they can get compensation, on the board they don't know if there's money in the budget, or if there's no budget, they just make decisions in turn, by unintelligible parameters, it's a separate situation. Yeah, well, the commission made a decision, and you know what's next? Rightly, it is necessary for the executive body to approve the decision within five days in accordance with this law. Tell me, please, what to do to those who don't have any executions when they're dissolved, they can't get together, they're gone, they're in a war zone and so on. So in fact, all people will wait until the executions come together and approve the commission's decision, because without the approval of the execution, for example, it's impossible to get a residence certificate. I want Mr. Silent's answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u491	Mr. Mokchan, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u492	Yes. In accordance with the legislation governing the activities of local self-government authorities during war, the powers of implementing bodies are passed on to military and civilian administrations in places, but this is another legislation. We do not regulate this in the Loss of Housing Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u493	Excuse me. Yeah, 312 repairs, Klimenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:58:27]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Next up, Julia Leonidivna, what's your correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u494	323rd. Mr. Movchan, I want to tell you the truth of life that not all communities have VCAs, just like not all communities have active power. You can go to Kupyansk, you can go to Kharkivsk region, where the deputies and the deputies have run out, and there is nothing, no VCA, no performances, nothing. And there are, unfortunately, many communities in Ukraine. So those communities that have suffered the most from military action, where the largest number of traitors, they're going to be in the worst of conditions, because they're not going to be able to get compensation on a case-by-case basis. So my proposal to you, it's not set out in this bill, but maybe you'll cancel this bill when you realize that it's not working, that other communities can make decisions, or that it'll be centralized at the level of the area when the area can take, a commission at the level of the area can make decisions. Because if we give it to the community, unfortunately, we're not going anywhere. And many things it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u495	323 Amendment by Klimenko Julia Leonidina The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:59:58]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. The amendment remains rejected. Dear colleagues, let's make a final amendment for today. Julia Leonidina, choose any one of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u496	I'll pick the next one, but that doesn't mean it's the last one. That's right, that's right. I want to choose a very correct correction, more faithfully, it's just going to go next, 329th, which gives the Cabinet of Ministers the authority to determine how much compensation you'll be paid. And that's what I'm going to tell you, Mr. Silent, as the author of the bill, is wrong. Because he can't define the Cabinet of Ministers by his decision without some method of how much a square meter costs. We have a legislative base in the country that allows us to estimate square meters. This legislative framework is laid down in the Evaluation Act, it's a beautiful mechanism in the Maintenance Fund, and there are great specialists who know how to use it. Yes, we need to clean up the assessors, because there are 32,000 misunderstood companies that don't understand what they're doing. But there are international companies involved. It's not a matter of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-07-m0.u497	Dear colleagues, 329 revisions to the authorship of the respectable Julia Leonidni Klimenko and colleagues Unfortunately, she's been rejected by the committee, but I'm putting her to a vote. Please support and vote. Please. [[15:01:50]] For-37 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, a list of issues that were previously agreed upon. I'm sorry, the agenda is not finished today, but we're closing today. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation. For safety reasons, please do not spread information about its beginning. We believe in the power of defense of Ukraine. We'll win together. Glory to Ukraine!
