ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in the context of the state of war" today, we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I point out that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to abide by the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear National Deputies! Today is the 601st day of full-scale Russian aggression against Ukraine. Our courageous soldiers, despite hostile activity in separate directions, continue their offensive operations, courageously repel racist attacks, purposefully destroying the individual composition and military techniques of the invaders. Let us bow our heads to the heroes who gave their lives for Ukraine. Remembering this immortal feat is with us forever. We pay tribute to the moment of silence, as well as to the memory of all the peaceful citizens who died as a result of the crimes of the Russian terrorist state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Dear colleagues! I would like to report that on October 12-13, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted really powerful resolutions for Ukraine aimed at restoring historical legal justice, as well as the full support of our state in fighting the Russian aggressor. In its resolutions, the Parliaments of the Council of Europe and other parliaments, which have not yet done so, acknowledged the same resolutions, condemned Russia's ongoing aggressive war against Ukraine and called for a single front for halting aggression and achieving a just and lasting peace, acknowledged the Russian Federation as a dictatorship, supported international bodies such as the International Criminal Court and a joint investigation and prosecution team for war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in Ukraine since the beginning of the aggression in 2014, stressed the utmost support for the Peace formula of President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank our delegation, headed by Maria Sergiyevna Mezenceva, for their active and effective work, as well as the fellow Parliamentarians of other states, for making such important decisions for Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear National Deputies, today is the birthday of our colleague, National Deputy of Ukraine Elizabeth Alexiyevna Yasko, "Serve of the People". Let us welcome the nominee and wish her good health, productive work, and Ukraine’s victory as soon as possible. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes of time before the daytime issues were discussed for the presentation of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. I'm asking representatives of the MPs and groups to sign up. Please, colleagues. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please, Rostislav Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Peter Alexiovich Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u3	Please, Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! These days were very difficult. Yesterday was nine days ago, when the heart of my 206th battalion rifle stopped, which we created in the first hours of widespread aggression, Vitalia Baranova, who defended the Kiev, released Harrison and now died in the east. A few days ago, one of the leaders of our "youth" died heroically. Sergey Ikonnikov, 72 brigade that protected Kiev, and he was the youngest commander in division 72. He went on the offensive and died. And we must remember very clearly the price we pay for our nation’s existence and for the nearness of our victory. All of us were told to take the example of Israel as he got there and was able to organize the defense and then, and then, they said, wait, so Israel slept through the attack. And Israel acted as we did. I want us to learn Israel’s example. Position one. On the first day, more than 300,000 or 5 percent of Israel’s population were assigned to the army. But each of them had a vest, a Kevlar helmet, a drone, a radio station, a beret, a form, a sleeper, a caramel, was fully provided, by the way, without any volunteer participation. From the first few minutes, the speakers of the IDF and the states were military. Unlike the Arestovich and the Dodolaki, who were competently and honestly associated with a nation worthy of honor and respect. In a terrible dream, no one in the IDF would have imagined that we would cancel the tenders. The Knesset is open - minded and says that no law other than to strengthen their security is being considered. We are told, in the Knesset, that they speak in contrast with us, the language of the truth, not the language of the teletraphone and other lessons. Friends, open a meeting, save freedom of speech, save democracy, and secure it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u5	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u6	Honorable fellow members of the national MPs, distinguished presidency, respected Ukrainians. I would like to begin my speech by expressing deep respect and honor to those who risk their lives every day, protecting our freedom, our independence, our country's sovereignty, who give their lives for the future of our nation. And, of course, we all dream of a long-awaited victory, but at the same time, we all realize that much needs to be done to make it. And this requires the consolidation of all efforts, of all nations. And in this number, I would like, honourable fellow MPs, to address you with the fact that we also have to organize as effectively as possible the work of our Supreme Council as the highest legislative body, we have to work separately for each national MP. There's more than enough possibilities for that. Members of temporary special commissions and commissions of inquiry are quite effective. And what I'm saying is, whatever we're being criticized for the large number of such commissions, they're now solving and highlighting extremely important issues. It's about providing our military with all the weapons we need, it's medical supplies, treating the sick, the wounded, and so on. So we need to keep working in this regard. I would like to pay attention, and the Head said that the MPs were actively working on the international diplomatic front. But I would also like to point out that, over the past year, not only have we worked as professional diplomats, but many deputies have also worked in various delegations. This practice needs to be restored. And to conclude, we are now working on adopting a budget that will provide all the countries we need, our army, but it is not necessary to forget about the issue of ensuring all our citizens' needs. We have to do everything we can to avoid lowering the socio-economic standards of, say, the Cabinet of Ministers standard of setting up 1,600 bracelets as a minimum pay for payments to the courts, it's impossible to do that. We're working. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u7	Please, Alexyyyovich Kucherenko faction of Fatherland. Alexi Yuriovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u8	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we are entering the winter, and I would like to tell you how the colleagues of the Ukrainians who are going to listen to all of this are going to give an objective picture of the situation, because one and a half weeks ago we were here with you, taking part in the days of the government devoted to this problem, where the Prime Minister, the Minister of Energy, was sitting here, telling such wonderful pictures of how space ships are going to spread the space of the universe. In fact, this is not the case, and in this situation I consider it my responsibility to give you an objective picture. Well, first of all, you have to know, debt today is a huge key problem for the entire energy complex. 190 billion dollars is total outstanding debt in the gas market. 190 billion is estimated by USAID. 50 billion dollars is unregulated debt in the energy market, just like USAID estimates. Ninety-four billion is the debt of heatcommunerge for gas before NAC Naftogaza. Of these, 52 billion are current, fresh debts that are unaccounted for. Of these, the difference in tariffs is known to be 36 billion dollars. What's next for you? And how can I be trusted in this situation because I personally heard the Prime Minister’s question about this situation? He did not answer that question, for the government had practically done nothing to resolve the problem. I don't want to upset the situation. There will be no disaster, we all realize that 90 percent of the winters depend on the work of our Armed Forces and anti-air defence systems, and unfortunately, how many rockets and chess players have accumulated an aggressor and he's accumulated a lot of them. But I'm saying because I'm convinced the Armed Forces will do their job, and unfortunately, the government has not done its job, and this imbalance in debt robs us of real integration in the near future with Europe's energy system, with Europe's gas market, which is exactly what we're counting on. And the last. Friends, how can it be that, not for the next year without resolving the debt problem of 36 billion in different tariffs, the government is not putting anything in the budget? What can the mayors do to close these holes? There is no answer to that question today, so the real situation is not very good.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u9	Please, Gnatenko, the "Deliverance of Ukraine" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u10	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! This week, you and I are accepting our state's budget, and since September 15, a great deal of work has been done, the adoption of a number of important rights, and the preservation of support for socially vulnerable groups of our population. Of course, we all want to increase spending on the social bloc, but the war is still going on today. The Ukrainian Liberation Group stresses that our main priority is to ensure security and defence, to preserve social support, and to ensure the necessary reconstruction of our state. Security and defence are financed directly by Ukrainian taxpayers. Instead, to cover all other expenses, we have to rely on external aid, a direction that is objectively causing anxiety. Today we are with the $42 billion promised this year, so far we have only received $33 billion. That is why we need to understand exactly what we are spending in our country and should count on our own resources. This is also a direct response to those officials who are trying to support local budgets for the pipeline, for the well - being and for the implementation of other projects. I've just come back from the district of Donetskin, there's no stopping the explosions day and night, there's a constant movement of military technology, there's military and there's the population, and they're asking for help in different directions. I've had to be a city head three times, thanks to my community, and I feel very strongly, like most ordinary citizens, that we're responding to changes in the VAT law. But when the house says, the flowers in the yard don't plant, I'm sure they do, and that's what most of my fellow citizens, my fellow citizens, who are on the collision line right next to the war. So today we're seeing an active focus on Donbas, in Kharkishte, and therefore the question of the adoption of Law 10037 needs to be accelerated, and the "Deliverance of Ukraine" group will support this rule. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u11	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, faction. The MP's "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u12	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Let me quote you: "The will that doesn't seem to be gaining freedom. Freedom that is based on unity always prevails. The important thing is not to waste time. Don't lose your unity." The beautiful words are the words of President Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Zelensky for the first 600 days of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine. And we need to take these words as a guide to the entire parliament, so that we today, when we have a particularly difficult time, both financially and externally, and in all other ways, so that we can take today as a model of our warriors, who today have united independently of nationality, regardless of the religious faith that we today have with our courage, show by our courage how necessary it is to protect our country. Why am I saying this? Because we have a lot of challenges, and we're practically ready. We have beautiful bills that can now, at this difficult time, improve the social situation of the people, and channel all the funds to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. But we need to want to do this, and we need to bring this room together. I looked at the bills that are being considered this week. And, you know, I can tell you that, yes, complex bills, they're very, you know, indicative. But I am confident that this week our Supreme Council will unite and all factions will vote on the State budget of Ukraine, which will direct the bulk of this budget to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, but at the same time also on protected articles that will allow people to pay their wages at the proper time, especially in the budgetary sphere, pensioners. In the last speech, I gave you an example of how in USAID the form is written: from the American People, that is, from the American people. And we need to know today clearly and clearly that the funds that our citizens will get from not only the economy of Ukraine, they will get from our allies -- from the United States of America, from the European Union. And we have to say it and say it and thank you. Every pensioner, every budget person, when he gets a payday and a pension at the right time, he has to say, "Thank you to Ukraine, thank you to the Ukrainian people, but thank you to both the American people and the peoples of the European Union." Dear friends, I would very much like this to unite our hall and that we can go along with you to victory and to the social protection of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u13	Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, Party for the Future. Please, Irina Miroslavna Konstankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies! The Future Group also wants to express its support and appreciation for the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and, in particular, of the Ukrainian delegation, which managed to achieve such high results over the course of the year. I'm going to say this is the collective work of many institutions. This is also the representation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, headed by Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich. It's also the MSA, it's a lot of other Ukrainians that actually worked to make these decisions. But I will immediately say that many people ask me, ‘ What, then, will these recommendations be adopted by other parliaments that are more than 20? ’ I am asked, the following question is asked: Does not the world’s interest in Ukraine wane? And I have only one answer: for decisions to be approved by parliaments of other countries, this communication, joint, collective work must last. We must continue to work comprehensively, systematically and extensively, to prove to the world that the Holocaust is not just a famine, it is a genocide against the Ukrainians, resulting in the deaths of between 7 million and 10 million people. We have to convince the world that Russia's colonial history of relations with Ukraine is 400 years, and Ukraine is really an ancient European country. And that's why our Euro-integration aspirations are natural and logical. We must talk about all the days of our war, the terrible war with Russia for our independence, for our sovereignty, for our future. So I'm asking Parliament's leadership to continue this work, systematic, parliamentary, on many international sites, not just one delegation, but at the level of friendship groups, at the level of committees, at the level of personal contacts. Because we must be present in the parliaments of Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, many others. It is important for us to be heard, as we have heard, for example, that Maria Mezentsev is heard constantly, every day, every hour on all the playgrounds; as is heard by Comrade Sobolev; as many others hear. It has to be unanimous if we want to know and show the world that we are a progressive, democratic parliament, and so is Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u15	Please, Nekludov Vladen Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u16	Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, please give the floor to your colleague, our beauty, the head of our delegation, Maria Mezentsiy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u17	I understand, Mezentsa Maria Sergiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u18	Thank you. Thank you, Lord. Mr. Speaker, thank you very much for the high mark of our work in the autumn session. I invite colleagues from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe who are now in the Chamber to join this rostrum. My friends have really made historic decisions, but they wouldn't have been if it wasn't for our brave and incredible defense forces. A part of the file is dedicated to counterattacks, which lasts as long as it has to, according to plan. And those international colleagues who think it's going on pretty slowly, we always invite them red on the line of defense to see how our defenders are really fighting. So, friends, we've admitted to parieux 46 by parliament the crime of genocide, which is the hollodomor of 1932-1933 last century, which has affected every Ukrainian family. To date, there is no clear information on how many people were killed. But this genocide has a historical thread to this day. Russia's aggression, which has been going on since March 14, has created genocide, and not only in the territory of Ukraine today, not only on the subcontinent of Europe, but throughout the world. Russia tried to put the whole world on its knees before the food crisis, it didn't work. We have recognized Russia as a dictatorship, and Putina as a dictator, and after the end of his term, he will be cut off from all official contacts except for those who will be targeted at humanitarian missions. Friends, we don't forget about the civilian captives, the violent disappearances that have been going on since we were 14. It is very important that the state of Russia hand over all the lists of existing civilian captives, either to Ukraine or to the UN State, or to any third country that will help bring everyone home. We do not forget the genocide that Russia is committing against Ukrainian children. We welcome the efforts of the Office of the President, the Ukrainian Ombudsman, who continues to return Ukrainian children home, and we have taken a separate step to return Ukrainian children home from Russia, Belarus, and to unite the efforts of all foreign ministers of the Council of Europe. Dear friends, we are moving on to justice and that is the answer that must be adequate, is to create a special tribunal for the crime of aggression, a register of damages, which means compensation for every Ukrainian family that has suffered this aggression, every war crime that has been recorded by the authorities of the National Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and will be transferred to the special office in The Hague, which will work since autumn. Glory to Ukraine! Glory be to the Force.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u19	Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u20	Comrades, good afternoon! This week we're looking at enough, I would say, important for our next 50 years of life in our country and our citizens. First of all, these bills pertaining to the budget in 2024 and the budget in 2023, where you and I have to distribute expenses in such a way that we have enough money to keep the front, to keep our troops, and we can keep ours with you, to fulfill our social obligations and our pension liabilities. And I have to say, I didn't think I'd say that, but I want you to know that this budget is balanced enough, regardless of what I'm up against. I want to say that the committee has worked seriously enough. The next block of questions that gives us access to the European Union, this is a question of tax checks and the question of PEP, it's ambiguous, it's causing a lot of debate. But these are the requirements that Ukraine must meet in order to start negotiations with the European Union and give our citizens a clear road to the European Union. This is our commitment to you. And the third cluster of issues is the issue of national security, including the question of the church that we will be considering. And once again, I want to tell you that this is not a question. We're not discussing religious issues, the church is separate from the state, we're discussing national security with you. We will consider a bill that was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers on behalf of President Zelenski. So, colleagues, please, I hope that there will not be as few people in this room as there are now, gather together, we need to show our citizens and do the will of our citizens this week to protect them, the army has little protection, we have a clear path to the European Union and we have a stable national security. No Russian institution should remain on Ukrainian soil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up, let's move on to work. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, honourable national deputies suggest that a signal vote be held prior to the commencement of the consideration of matters. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. [[11:37:34]] For-129 129 – in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, Everything as usual. Dear colleagues, I want to remind you that. I reiterate my call on all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information on the progress of the plenary session and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. Colleagues, a list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, are given to you. Let's get to it. And I just want to remind you that we are in the process of dealing with question 10037, this is a draft law amending chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code to ensure the protection of the state and the development of the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex. Dear colleagues, we have stopped at 879 amendments by Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please 879 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u22	Ruslan Alexiyovich, instead of amendments 879, 880, 881, 882 and 883 are five amendments, please give me three minutes to perform. And it's time to start.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u23	Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, three minutes. Take your time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, first of all, I am very pleased that today there are many more members of the "Serves of the People" in the Hall than it was during the discussion of the amendments. Because every discussion we discussed was about why we should not vote in favour of this bill. And first of all, you have to understand that the problem that you want to solve, you don't solve, you create, on the contrary, a lot more problems, especially for the communities that are in the front or frontal territories, but not only. You have to understand that today, in the local government, there are funding and hospitals and schools, and the winter period, and financing of those military units, the facilities and utilities that are paying for this PDF today in the budgets of these communities, but even though you don't see it, you have to understand that more than 45 percent of the military, so-called, so-called, has gone back to the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the form of very quick assistance that the parts of the community have received. Dear colleagues, you listen now, because then you're going to use the green buttons thoughtlessly and you're going to leave the local communities with no money. What do the local communities say? Mr. Harkov, the city head of the Congressional and Regional Authorities, pointed out that Kharkiv was short 650 million dollars this year, and in 2024, almost 3.5 billion dollars were due to this law. Is that what the Harkians need? I don't think so. Mikolai. Good afternoon, MPs from Santa Claus. So Santa can lose about 2 billion 700 million dollars, almost half of their budget. You don't care, you talk and you don't listen, then you look into the eyes of the people of Santa and Santa. Let's move on, Lviv. Yeah, they're not in front or frontal territory right now, but today the whole of Ukraine's front territory. However, in the Jovkovsky community in Lviv, for example, the military tax is 12 million. If it's taken away, the community will be very unsavoury. Now, pay attention to whether or not they're paying. How much money is the community sending to the Armed Forces today? So I'm going to tell you that a lot of communities are sending troops to the Armed Forces even more than they're getting from the military PDF. Specific examples. In Poltava, the Opishnian community received about 20 million dollars from the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u25	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u26	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the proposals that have just been made relate to the amendments to the Military Duty and Military Service Act and are not related to the subject matter of regulation of the Budget Code, nor to the changes under consideration. So please don't support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u27	Thank you. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Okay. Next up, Arthur Volodymyrovich, 884.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u28	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, may I please have an 884th and, roughly speaking, 899th, yes, and 10 minutes, please. There's about 20 right-handers out there somewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u29	Please, 10 minutes. 899th is, yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I will continue. If you think that communities don't send money to the army, you're wrong. Yes, are there any communities that have spent them not on the army, but, roughly speaking, on the gossip? Yes. But to be honest, these communities spent much less than the central government. And I'm grateful to the head of the budget committee who, from this rostrum when voting on the budget changes in the 23rd year, sincerely said that the road fund for construction had already been fully used this year. What, then, did the central authority not refer this money to the army? Why did she bury them in the asphalt in 2023, the second year of full - scale war? So, specific examples, the Opishnian community of the Poltava region received 20 million dollars from the military PDF, but at the same time it was aimed at supporting the Ukrainian Armed Forces for about 60 million dollars, and they want even more to spend about 80 million dollars on the Armed Forces. I'm giving these examples to help you understand how dangerous it is to take money from local communities today. And, you know, "European solidarity" went to all the local communities and asked them if they should leave it in the community or if they should take it to the central budget. You know, we've got about 300 calls from the local authorities, we've got decisions, more than 200 decisions from local councils, which strongly say and clearly tell you who's going to push the buttons that you can't do today, these appeals from all parts of Ukraine. And you know, I'd like all majors from the "Serve of the People" who are in the hall today, which is, for example, the Drabovsky Anatoly Grigorovich elected in the town of Vinnica, the Borzov Irina Intentional City of Žmernka was chosen, this is the Winnitsk region. Majors of the Žitomir region, such as Kostuk Dmitry Sergiyovich, Kuzminy Sergey Volodymyrovich. Zacarpatsk oblast is Laba Mikhailo Mihajlovich. Zaporezki oblast is Kasai Hennady Alexanderovich, Stépa Sergiy Sergijovich, Melnik Pavel Viktorovich. From Kiev, Oleg Dunda, Valerius Koluch, Alexander Horobec, Olga Vasilevska-Smagluk, Mikola Galusko, others. The Kirovograd region is Murdy Igor Yuriovich, Kubbit Yuri Mihajlovich. The Lviv region is Kamelchuk Yuri Aleksandrovich. Mikolayivska is Pasic Alexander, Negulevski Igor, Dirdin Maxim. From the region of Cherniewec, Olena Lis. I'm saying this under the transcript so people can understand how you're going to vote. Zhariah Maxim, Christmas of Valerius The Chernigiv region is Seminski Oleg, Zujev Maksim, Valeriy Zub. From the Luhansk region is Alexy Kuznetsov. How will he look into the eyes of the communities in which they will take the money through which it will be cold and will not burn in the dwellings of the inhabitants? The Odessa region is Oleg Kolev, Alexei Leonov, Alexander Gorenjuk, Stepan Cherniavsky, Sergey Koleboshin. The Poltava region is Dmitry Nalotov, Andry Boblah, Anastasia Lashenko, Constantine Kasai, Alexei Movchan, Maxime Burezin. Sumska oblast is Tetjana Skripka, Igor Vasiliev, Maxim Husenko, Mikola Zadrodzny. The Kharkiv region is Marija Mezenceva, Alexander Kunicki, Andrew Odarchenko, Yuri Zdebski, Alexander Bakumov, Eugene Pivorov, Dmitry Lubota, Alexander Litwinov, Alexei Krasov. And after the leaders of the Kharkish community have openly said that this money is critical to them, because they still need to rebuild the infrastructure, how will you vote? And how are you going to explain then that you took the money into the central budget, frankly, in a rather questionable direction? / The Hersonian region is Paul Pavlish, Victoria Wagner, Vladimir Ivanov. Dnipropetrovsk oblast: Dmitro Kisilevski, Kirill Nesterenko, Viacheslav Medianik, Yuri Miseghin, Vladimir Zacharchenko, Olene Krivorukkina, Yuri Koravchenkov Explain to the curved horn what you are doing. Dmitry Black, Dennis Hermann, Roman Koppelov, Vladislav Borodin, Sergey Severin. Volinska oblast is Vejacheslav Rubleov. So how are you going to look at the voters? The region of Ivano-Frankiv is Edward Proschtuk, Alexander Matusević, Vasil Vírastyuk. The Cherkaskie region is Oleg Arsenyuk, Andry Stryharski, Vitaly Vojciekhowski. Ternopil region is Igor Vasiliev, Vladimir Grivko. The Plain Region is Alexander Kovalczuk, Alexander Aleksiychuk, Sergey Litwinenko. Hmelnicka is Mikola Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, Olena Copanczuk and Igor Marcuk. And the city of Kiev. The city of Kiev, where it's not even going to compensate. Maxim Berebinnis, Artem Dubnov, Sergey Schwetz, Lesia Zabranna, Mariana Bezugla, Dmitri Gurin, Hanna Bondar Why did I read it? Because I'm asking all the voters who are going to watch this broadcast today, they're going to show it, of course, at night, they're looking closely at how those who are going to vote for it are going to vote for it. But the key point is, is there a way out of all of this? It is because there was an alternative bill 10037-2 and it was clearly written that money should remain in the community, but communities can spend it exclusively on security and defence needs, as well as on bomb shelter equipment and on defense of buildings where it is necessary. And so it's a very simple decision today: not to support this bill in the second reading, not to support it, to re-read it, to shorten the lines of re-reading. And on re-second reading, I'm going to direct it this way right now. Thirty percent. Attention! Just listen. Thirty percent. I want to tell the voters, if they show the hall now, nobody cares, listens to the opposition, listens to the gallery, doesn't listen to "The Servants of the People." Listens to the Presidium, I have to give it right. So there's another second reading, and then there's the distribution. The first is that money remains in the community, but 30 percent are directed to the Ministry of Defence for the purpose of purchasing foreign arms, 30 percent, attention is directed to the Ministry of Defence for the purchase of exclusively arms and equipment produced by Ukrainian manufacturers, 30 percent should be directed directly at the accounts of brigades and military units, which are located not only in these locations, but also in others. And 10 percent remain at the disposal of the local authorities, but they are spent on security and defence, bomb shelters, fortifications, the restoration of damaged critical infrastructure, and other things that will help bring the victory closer. This is a constructive approach. And finally. Dear colleagues, you know, it's very sad to look in this room when, without even reading the laws, the Greens vote for things that have a very negative impact on people's fate. And today, if a bill is supported to tax individuals in the local authorities, prepare for the fact that many communities will not simply be insolvent, and they will have to refuse people in the most necessary way. And that's especially true -- look, listen, those communities that are in front or frontal territory. Just ask them how they spend their money and how critical it is for them. And there's more. Last but not least. You know that the ability of communities, the power of communities, decentralization is not only the most successful reform of President Poshenko's time that you're killing, but it's also a principle of speciality, it's a fundamental principle of the existence of the European Union. By killing decentralization, you go not to the European Union, but to the European Union. That's why I'm asking everyone, especially the Majorities of the Front and Frontal Territories, to think very carefully about whether you want to do worse for people or not. Thank you for your attention. And I urge you not to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u31	Thank you. Arthur Volodymyrovich, I understand that all the other amendments are being made. The noble colleagues, well, are such a unique talk that gives the right to repulsion to those who are listed there if anyone wants to. Please, are they desirable? Dirdin, please. Of all of them, I understand. One minute, Maxim Dirdin. And after that, colleagues. Now, I'll do it before you do it. We've completed the adjustments. Now we're going to go to the amendments for confirmation, and I already have a list of people who have expressed their wish. Please. I'm giving Dirdin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your word and the opportunity to respond to the concerns of the representative of the EC party about how we're going to vote. I'd like to draw the attention of the representatives of the EU, as they were at the local level yesterday in Pervomaysk, the EU voted in favour of taking a million dollars out of education funding, out of the salaries of education workers who still have a pitiful salary, because they voted yesterday with the parties banned by the OPCW and the Opposition Block, this is in the city of Pervomaysk. And that's the question of what, who, and how. Please note the conduct of the local party in Pervomaysk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, this is where we've concluded our discussion of amendments to accounting, and we're moving on to amendments to confirmation. According to the previous ones, what we talked about on the Conciliation Council, and now my colleagues are coming to me, 1 amendment, please, the Bakunec People's Deputy is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, actually when we enter this hour already, when you will each take a choice or destroy the possibility of development, especially the development of small communities, territorial centres, district centres, I ask you, by asking for confirmation of the amendment, perhaps we will find consensus at least on a date, at least to start this shameful process next year, not from October. Maybe we can find consensus at least to leave both the military and the local authorities, at least 10 percent. I very much urge you now to find the right balance while looking at the right hand side and do good for both the ammunition and the Ukrainian soldier, and so that local self-governance can function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u35	Number one. Do you insist on voting? First. Do you insist on voting, Your Honor? Don't insist. Let's move on. Next, 3 minutes Etushka instead of amendments: 5, 60 and 140. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u36	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Mr. Head, I ask you not to put these amendments to the vote, but give me three minutes, really, so that I can explain the position of the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, I would really like to address everyone right now without exception, who doesn't really understand what we're voting for. It is said that at the beginning of the year, all communities specifically put together programs that were then approved by budget decisions and began to finance them. These are various programs, including aid for internally displaced persons, aid for the burial of military personnel, and assistance for the families of our dead soldiers. All these programs can't be stopped at the end of the year because it's a completely abnormal management process. And I would like to emphasize once again, let's take a model that, indeed, from January 1st of next year when we meet with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the Association of Cities of Ukraine to work out a model that will enable us to finance those military parts that are at a permanent location in those communities that are there. Allowing communities to help them. You can really say that, unfortunately, there are local cases where local self - government authorities are funding objects that are not close to our victory, such as stadiums, buzzards, or other things. But the language is that let's still make a clear list of how to allow local self-government authorities to finance only what is now extremely necessary and viable: it's assistance to military units, it's assistance to internally displaced persons, it's possible different kinds of accidents in the housing and utility system. Because if for large communities, those who have district centres in the community, it's just a matter of reducing funding for certain programs, then for small communities there's a question of survival, the question is whether these small communities will function normally in general education institutions, or pre-school education institutions, out-of-school education, that's what the question is. So let's take this crazy initiative from the government, I think it's a good one, but we're going to stop and start a discussion at the level of the state, involving all the subjects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have the following amendments: 144, 145, 146, 147, and 163. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I would really like to focus on the following. Not finding compromise with society, with local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u39	Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u40	..the government has taken such an initiative. And you could see that it's very obvious that there's not enough money to finance the social economy. Because we're saying that the military can't fund at the expense of these funds, and we're seeing a situation where, instead of seeking compromise, they went on, that is, limiting the use of the local budget's free balances. I thank Mr. Bakuntz for adding to this, he was able to add rehabilitation and rehabilitation to the people who had suffered the armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. But once again, you haven't written enough to spend on a community health facility that you can spend on a hospital, a boarding house, probably, or this treatment abroad. How to spend these funds will help local budgets. We didn't make the deal again. But the authorities decided that it's not enough to take money from local budgets just this year and 24th. And there are a lot of amendments, including Mrs. Podlasoi, I hope you'll put 282 amendments to the vote, to take away local self-government, the local budgets of PDF from military and police by the end of the year, in which the period of war ends. So by attacking local budgets, they didn't stop, they didn't analyze, they didn't see how these removals would work, or they would still be able to use them on Minstrategprom and really rebuild the industrial defence complex, you went on to just take it away and divide it. This position does not suit all of us even during the war. We need to be united, and unity means we're looking for compromise and we're all making decisions for our military. I don't understand colleagues who call for a vote, because it seems to be damaging the financing of the Armed Forces and even more the restoration of the defence complex. Understand, we have to adopt these laws, but everyone's opinion, and especially local self-government, is Ukrainian, they're people who work in places and they're also winning with us. We didn't hear them. So I don't think we should vote for this bill today, anyway, so we should prepare it for the second reading. And I ask 163 amendments for confirmation. Although, as I've already said, the standards that are set out there may add something, but it shouldn't be a compromise, because it's absolutely free of charge, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. 163 revisions. What is the position of the committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u42	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. We ask you, colleagues, to support this amendment. The paper is directed and broadens the use of local self - government funds to treat and rehabilitate the victims of armed aggression. This is a very important remedy for our defenders, for our citizens who have suffered from the war with Russia. That's why I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 163 amendments, she's counted by committee. She asks for such a decision to be made by the committee for confirmation. The committee is asking for confirmation of its decision. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a 163 amendment to this bill. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:03:51]] For 245 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, the following amendments: 148, 149, 150, 153, 154, 155, 156, 157, 158, 159. Irina Volodymyr, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u44	Thank you. My name is Heratchenko, Mr. Head. I want to talk about the next one. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now adopting a bill that will take 200 billion dollars from local communities to fund the FFPs that pay off specific brigades. Instead of having these funds go directly to the equipment, weapons, drones for these units, we're told that these funds are going to go to a separate command center, as if for a noble purpose, that these funds will go directly to military purposes. But on Friday of the past, the Prime Minister was speaking here, who apologeticly stated that 40 billion dollars had been spent on drones and 200,000 drones had been purchased. Can I ask you a question? Where are they? Why is there 110 drone - free brigades under the Audio Tower today? Why are 10 drone - free brigades under Bahmut today? Why are BPLA volunteers, thermal visionaries, and other techniques in the Donetsk, Zaporezian, Hersonian, and other directions today? And now your vote, colleagues, will create the next one. Costs paid by the military as their tax will be taken to a special fund where they will be completely uncontrollable. The same volunteers will continue to drive, transport, and equip troops, brigades, and battalions. It's not normal. And so this is our next position. Obviously, the tax should go solely to the needs of the military. We suggest that in this draft budget, 70 percent of the tax on the income of military-paying individuals should remain in military units, but that they should be transferred there by local government authorities at the request of these units, and 30 percent to repair parts of the permanent deployment, to housing for the military, to treatment for the military, to the bomb shelter. Remember how much you screamed about how we're not okay with hiding in Ukraine, so no shelter was created, and now you're taking this money into local self-government. And perfectly right colleagues who say that we're running out of October, and you're putting new standards into effect by this law from October of this year. It's not normal, it doesn't happen in any financial year. Our proposal is to send this bill to read again, to find compromise. And the last. You know, the money you're spending on this fund right now -- 200 billion -- they're going not even to the Ministry of Defense, they're going to the state, they're not even going to the government, they're going to the government, they're not going to the government, they're not even going to be able to officially spend it. And all of this creates a bunch of problems of lobbying, corruption and all. We propose not to vote on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, let's move on. Amendments: 160, 161, 282, 355, 515 and 910. Goncharenko. I understand that after that, Alexei Alexiyovich, you're going to put 282nd, 355th and 910th to the vote and confirmation. Please, Honcharenko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u46	Alexei Hotcharenko. Dear friends, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are about to vote on an extremely important law, a law that, unlike many laws, will affect the lives of every Ukrainian, every Ukrainian. I'm paying attention to this because all Ukrainians live in communities in villages, villages, cities, winter is beginning, winter is coming, our central government is always washing its hands, and we've seen it many times. And when tomorrow in these cities, God forbid, we understand Russian shelling on energy infrastructure, we understand all the problems. And when tomorrow in these cities, villages, villages, there's no electricity, there's no heat, there's no heat, there's nobody else who needs to be fixed, there's nothing to tell, and there's nothing to tell, and we've got everything taken away, and I'm paying attention to it. And so the MPs who are going to say tomorrow, where, and what if, and they're going to do that, they're now taking money into local self-government, they're now destroying this local self-government, now, in your eyes, they're doing it. I'm saying once again that we've offered a lot of compromises, let's take not everything, let's take away the military's VAT, and we can still find the logic. Why do you take away the police, rescuers living in these communities, their families? Quiet, no one's responding. We said, let's make sure that these local authorities have a large part of it, for example, 70 percent of it, that I've offered the papers, that I've given them to the Armed Forces, that they've bought the parts directly. No, it's not. By the way, when the military, as they are used to in many communities tomorrow, will turn and say, "Dear community, we need a car, we need a drone, we need an anti-drone rifle." Is that what they're meant to be, and in fact? Where's the Mini-Defense? We are also provided by communities that are able to give. Then they'll tell them, friends, and we've got it all taken away. This is going to be a very important show vote, I'm going to go to everyone, the local authorities, and I'm going to need you to take it and show it by name, who voted. All these MPs who were telling and tearing their clothes off, how they loved their community, how they were protecting the interests of these people, who were great mayors, and everything else, pay attention to who voted. 2019, remember how you voted without thinking, just because it's "servants" and it's for Zelensky, and now you have and you have a result. So, guys, there's still a chance that you don't vote for the amendments that I'm going to put up and don't vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u47	Please give the committee a brief position on these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u48	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. So 282 to the right. It predicts that military PDF action will only take place during a state of war and cannot be a permanent norm. In terms of where will the military spending come from? We're just predicting that 10 percent of the PPFs paid in military units are going back to their accounts and will be used without bureaucratic procedures for current expenses, for minor expenses, for repairs. So, colleagues, please confirm, take these amendments into account, vote in favour, they're very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, and let us proceed to the vote on these three amendments, which are valid for confirmation by the national MP, Honcharenko. You've heard the position of the parties. And so 282 amendments, it's counted, that's the committee's decision. That's 282 revisions. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:12:10]] For 234 Decision taken. The factions. The next amendment 355 is the same situation. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, Honcharenko puts this decision on the stand. People's deputies are requested to vote for 355 amendments. [[12:12:42]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, 910 revisions. It is also considered by the committee. At the same time, Honcharenko requests that such a decision be put to the vote by the committee for confirmation. I'll bet 910 votes for the vote. I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:13:14]] For 233 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, we have been amended: 729, 730, 731, 732, 733, 734, 735. Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko – 4 minutes. Dear colleagues, after that, we move to voting on the law as a whole. Four minutes and after that we're voting on the law as a whole, please don't split up. It's dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Now you're going to take a double blow: a blow to decentralization and a blow to the ability of the community, to defend the country. When you meet with a great friend of Ukraine and my great friend in the U.S. past trade, and now the President-designate in the Kyiv region, saying that you support decentralization, you will now demonstrate by this vote that you are telling the truth or lying. Decentralization was recognized as one of the most successful reforms in the United States, the European Union. And we're saying today that you're afraid to give money to the mayors, trying to concentrate the pre-election resource in your hands, but the war isn't over. And I urge you, not to support this law, to re-send the second reading, or to re-send the first reading, to form a common law. Yeah, we'll give you 30 percent of the production. Yeah, we'll give 30 percent to the Minobron. Yes, we give 30 percent to the brigades and give them local self-government. Because you're going to answer, and how are you going to make the humanitarian exchange, for what money? And how to ensure the construction of the bomb shelters and how to ensure that hospitals that are not rehabilitated are not rehabilitated at the expense of local government. And how, and at what cost, can housing be provided? For you say to the Ukrainians, come back. To help them rebuild war - torn housing, you shyly hide your eyes. And where does that money go? I want to ask. To centralized power. How does she spend it? And she spends it on a lying, propaganda marathon. And it spends them on serials that paint our nation. And she spends it on the Ministry's payroll fund. And it spends them on the development funds of ministries. That's where you have to spend the money you take from local government. It's not your money. And I want to stress that I've just come back from the south, from Herson, and when the brigades now have the opportunity to buy parts at full cost of subsidies, to buy pickups, to buy maviks, to provide sleepers, to prepare for winter, you're taking all that money. And when you say we leave the brigades, you take 90 percent, and you leave 10 percent, that's math. And I ask you to unite when we speak of unity, but unity must be around the Armed Forces of Ukraine, not around the bribed expenditures of central authority. I'm sure we can still fix it, not let it destroy local self-government, I believe it's possible. Praise the Armed Forces! And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of all the amendments. Let's go to. What else do you have? I think we've all been through. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u52	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I'm not going to put it to a vote, but the readout is 5, 140, 141, 142, 143, 143, change me by 3 minutes, and we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u53	141, 142, 143?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u54	5, 140, 141, 142.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u55	There was a 5th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u56	Well, then, yes, then there's 44, not in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u57	All right, go ahead. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u58	Thank you. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, after these three minutes, we're voting. Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, you will now vote for illegal law, a law that will have retroactive force. You want to take out all the money in the local government from October 1. I'm going to the majors, who will then be visited by people in all the areas where the heads of OTG, the mayors will say that there is no money, go to those who voted, let them fix you up, let them run you water, let them provide you with heat, let them provide you with electricity after the central authorities have not prepared the power supply system for winter and for the racist attacks. I would like to remind you that the first version of this law was prescribed: by December 31, 2024. Now you've written: until 31st until the end of the war. And please tell me, we have representatives of the President's Office, such as Arestovich, such as Podowak: one was two or three weeks old, the other was planning to drink coffee in Yalta, how do they feel? Maybe they're already there. Maybe you shouldn't have passed the law. Would it be desirable to move on to normal work? We understand that this law is not even about money, because the level of corruption that is unfortunately confusing is not just the adequate MPs that are here, and our voters on the street with you, but, first of all, it is confusing the army. Who rides the front, who communicates with our defenders, can confirm that. Because they're already saying that unfortunately, war there and war here are two big differences. And when the local authorities. Yes, we understand, there are cases where local authorities really don't do what they're supposed to do. But I would like to remind you that on February 24, 22nd, unlike Kabmin, unlike many other figures who had fled to Western Ukraine, and some had fled abroad at all, they worked in places. Now you're going to be left with no money in the area that's right next to the front line that's just not going to survive without it. You need to understand that you will be solely responsible and bear the responsibility of those who press the green today. And then don't be offended when the rally comes to your house, regardless of the state of war, because people will be cold, they won't have light, they won't have heat, they won't have sewage, and that'll be your problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, we're done. You're not going to make these adjustments, are you? Thank you. We've completed our consideration of this bill, we're moving on to the decision-making process. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending Chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code to ensure the protection of the State and the development of the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex (registration number 10037). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:22:23]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose that this bill be sent back to read again. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make a suggestion to re-send the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:23:05]] For 265 Decision taken. I'm offering to double the preparation period for the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:23:28]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we have two statements from different factions and groups with a replacement for the performance. First of all, it's a statement from Voice and People's Servants to replace a break with a replacement for a performance. The word is given to a group of friends, so I understand, and Vasilevsky-Smagluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u62	I invite a group of friends of "Ukraine-Israel" to join this rostrum, as well as all those who are in pain and who have been approved by the videos of the terrible victims caused by Hamas terrorist organization. 78 years later, it never happened again. The most brutal and mass murder of the Jews since the Holocaust was committed by Hamas against the Jews and those under their hot hand. On October 7, 2023, Palestinian Hamas terrorists illegally crossed the borders of Israel, raped and brutally murdered women, old people and children, filming the violence on video and promoting it worldwide, among the victims of 44 countries around the world, including 9 Ukrainians, and 11 in search of them, hundreds of people have been in captivity for 10 days. Hamas leaders found this to be too little, and they urged the whole world to join the Jewish pogroms. That means that no person in every corner of the world can feel safe. This reminds us of something, doesn't it? Tens of thousands of tortured, mutilated, murdered, kidnapped children, thousands of rockets on peaceful houses, Butch, Borodjanka, Mariupol, Groza, Beiri, Ofakim, Netovot, Sderot just because we are Ukrainians, just because they are Jews. A bloody carnage, both here and there, is made of the same handwriting. Who inspires terrorists? Who Invests in Violence? Robert Lansing’s Institute stated: Moscow and Tehran are likely to be directly involved in Hamas’s organizations, approved and politically supported. It was also known that Hamas and the Islamic Jihad had received hundreds of thousands of dollars from Moscow’s cryptocurricular exchange. We express our solidarity with the State of Israel and view it as a common issue to combat terrorism, under which he does not hide. No country whose children, women, were brutally murdered could afford even the thought of accepting negotiations with terrorists. So let's finally call things our names by adopting a corresponding Decree 5330. Our Attorney General must appeal to the court to recognize Hamas as a terrorist organization in the territory of our country. Nothing should undermine our definition of where good is and where evil is. And no chatter should be able to wash the hands of those who have elbows in their blood. Let's stay human!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, it came from two other factions, from the Fatherland faction and the European Solidarity faction, three minutes of acting in exchange. A three-minute break with a replacement. Princess, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, as you know, for today, this week, there is a government law in the vote on the activity of religious organizations in Ukraine. I want to ask everyone to be in the hall and support this government project. At the same time, I would like to point out that we have collected signatures for the delivery of all the projects that were submitted on the ban on the Russian Church in Ukraine. There are many such projects. There are projects there, colleagues of Konstankevitch who are standing here. There are some projects by my colleague, Savichuk. There are other projects. There's Project 8221, which, along with me, has signed a very large number of people here from all political factions of the majority, except for the former PRTR. Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to do the will of all the people's deputies, and to put all these bills to the vote. The Russian Church in Ukraine must be banned. It's a matter of our national security. This is the largest public organization directly subordinated to Gundyev and the Kremlin, which is calling on Ukrainian people to bring millions of Ukrainians to rallies against the Ukrainian state and our values. At the same time, we need to realize that all these people, most of them in contrast to their clergy, are innocent. And our responsibility is to help these people. Our responsibility is to demonstrate, not the will of the judges, but the will of the Ukrainian state to tell them, cut ties with Moscow, cut ties with Gundyev. No one forbids you to go to your churches and pray to God, pray to whoever you want. We are a democratic country. We are a country that operates on the basis of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, which we have signed and ratified. We are a country that operates on the basis of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. And this convention and these decisions directly state that it is the duty of the State to preserve its national security. The Russian priests exposed by the U.S.S.A. are grateful. And the U.S.A., as you know, has also initiated another law banning the activities of these pops in Ukraine, keeping their weapons, calling on the Ukrainian authorities, fighting against the Ukrainian Church. Why do we not pass these laws into the hall? What prevents us from implementing the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and protecting national security during wartime? These people brought war to Ukraine. These people are now killing Ukrainian soldiers. They're taking weapons and they're shooting. I urge you, Mr. Head, and all your colleagues, to put all the laws against the activities of the Russian Church in Ukraine, to come to the vote, to vote and to uphold all the laws, not to do imitations, but to ban this cancerous tumor in our society at last. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, let's move on. Dear colleagues. Thank you. Honorable colleagues, the following bill, 10016, are associated with it. We've already entered the bill. Dear colleagues, please 10016 and associated with him. They're already in the bill. Now we're going to make decisions about its inclusion, we're going to consider it, we're going to go ahead with the procedure. You don't have a 10016 procedure, do you? Dear colleagues, please take your seats, take your seats. I'm offering to put it into the agenda. Please take your seats, distinguished national MPs. Dear colleagues, I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session the draft Law 10016 and all the alternative bills to it. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:32:11]] For 232 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I would like to suggest that we consider these bills in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:32:34]] For 224 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two for, two for, or against? With the performances. The first Deputy Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Mr. Ulutin Denis Valeriyovich, will be given the floor to present the bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable members of the people, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian laws on the abolition of the moratorium on tax checks, 10016 amending the Ukrainian Tax Code, the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. The bill is designed to ensure full compliance with paragraph 15 of the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy, to which Ukraine has committed itself as soon as possible to restoring the pre-war state of tax policy, and in particular to amend Ukraine’s legislation to cancel the moratorium on tax checks. In doing so, inspections were carried out on the basis of the safe conditions for their conduct, as provided for in sub-paragraph 6921, paragraph 69, "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code. The implementation of the Act will avoid unwarranted losses of government and local budgets, allowing tax authorities to carry out verification measures in the event of risks of non-compliance with unconscientific regulatory requirements. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u67	Thank you. The author of the alternative bill shall be given the floor to the People's Deputy of Razumkov. Dear colleagues, I'll make it clear, we have three alternatives: Razumkov, Petrunjak and Baby, where there is a Dmitry Alexanderovich co-author everywhere. And if other colleagues don't mind instead of 3 minutes six, we don't listen to others. Five? Please, five minutes, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, in this room, we once discussed 8,401. Similarly, it was not an interesting part of Parliament, everyone was doing their part. When I said it wouldn't work for the state budget, when everyone was running down the ceiling from Kabmin, talking about what it would be for the military, Kabmin then gave an answer, there would be nothing for the military. Because Bill 8401, which has already been adopted, voted, signed and entered into force, has put $4.7 billion into the budget. I don't take any more corruption, I don't take job losses, I don't take economics, I say simple numbers. You've all been promised by Vice President Schurm's Office that this position is in agreement with the IMF. That there will be no tests for all until the end of the war and plus one year after our victory. And where is the truth? Today we have Bill 10016, which returns total checks, for that business that hasn't escaped, for that business that helps the army, for that business that provides that part of the Ukrainian budget that goes exclusively to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. By pressing green today, you're going to destroy them, and you're actually going to destroy yourself, because there's not going to be any companies that are going to pay taxes that pay off our protectors, buy and repair technology, buy shells, etc. You're actually going to destroy Ukraine's economy by voting today. I remember many saying that we voted in favour of raising taxes to provide for the army. This law will bring zero to the state budget. Zero! Where's the Prime Minister? I don't see him here today? Who told us that there will be no deterioration in Ukraine's budget for our business with you, no deterioration of their conditions, no deterioration of their activities until the end of the war. Please tell me, the return of total checks with total corrupt tax duties, is that not a deterioration in their terms? Distress. And you know it, a lot of people came from business. If someone doesn't know what it is, you can go and talk to a small, medium business and a big business like that. You can still talk to the military, where there are small, medium-sized businesses in the back that say that if you do, even us who are fighting today, who are helping our brothers, will not be able to do so anymore. We won't be able to provide for the needs of the Ukrainian army, we won't be able to provide for the need for the rear, we won't be able to do what society has assigned us as a task, we won this war. Voting for this law is another step, unfortunately, towards treason. Let's go, fellows! Destroying the economy of the state, despite the fact that we've been at war with you for almost two years at full-time since the 14th year, there's not a single economic program that can help business during this period of time, none. When we proposed with the "Smart Politics" team, the credits for those external loans and grants that came at the beginning of last year. The government didn't do it, the majority didn't vote for it because it wasn't their initiative. When business believes that even after 8,401 is a disgraceful government law, will you not make things worse for him? You put him back into tenderness a few months later. Where is the prime minister’s responsibility? Where is the responsibility of the profile ministers? Where Shurma's responsibility is to tell MPs and Ukrainian society that everything is agreed upon. Let them write a statement, let them have a conscience, come and say, "We're wrong, we're ineffective, we're going to do something else." We don't have enough troops on the front today, a great need for mobilization, I think they could join this process, not in a word, but in helping the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Because so far what they're doing, it's only a loss, it's only a defeat, it's only a defeat of the Ukrainian people and of the Ukrainian army in power, and unfortunately, it's delaying our victory with you. So please vote wisely and think what you are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u69	Ukraine's next national deputy Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich as author of an alternative bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u70	Thank you, colleagues. I remind you, since February 2014, in Ukraine, the war, from February 2022, a full-scale war, a full-scale invasion, our military, our Armed Forces, generally the security and defence sectors, is primarily funded for our taxes with you, for business taxes. And that's why now that we're introducing checks and actually, we're actually interfering with the way our domestic business works, how our businesses work, it's already very bad, and it can't be as a whole. I also remind you that the government has already initiated Bill 8401, which has already had and raised taxes and all the other stories, all the things that our international partners demanded. What's that now? What is 10016, what kind of bill is that? Why, for whom? This certainly isn't about supporting our business. And the Prime Minister of Ukraine spoke first of all about what he would support, and what he does is quite the opposite: it doesn't help business and, by the way, it doesn't help the army. I'll remind you of Bill 9559-d, which allows local self-government to help the army. That's why I, Ruslan Alexiyovich, am going to address you officially later in writing, by initiating the resignation of Prime Minister Dennis Schmigal of Ukraine. And please give me the corresponding signature letters for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u71	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Christmas Valery Ivanovich. The author of the alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation and the Law of Ukraine on "To collect and account for a single contribution to the general public social insurance obligation" to correct the moratorium on the conduct of tax checks (10016-5) is an alternative to the government. And, as noted, the government bill aims to abolish the moratorium on tax checks, the so-called restoration of prewar tax policy. I want to draw the attention of colleagues to the negative effects of such a government initiative on business operations in Ukraine. And there's no need to talk about business development at all. And according to the objective of our alternative bill, unlike the basic bill, is to preserve the moratorium on tax checks, namely, it is suggested that the current features of verification by the supervisory authorities during the legal regime of the state of war may be applied until December 31st of the year following the year in which the state of war will be suspended or cancelled in Ukraine. I urge you, colleagues, to do everything possible to ensure that the business that remained in Ukraine and did not escape had the opportunity to work fully, to help the army and to fill Ukraine's budget. And let's face it, colleagues: the question is largely not even in the scope of the tests, it's in the nature of these tests, because what we call prewar tax policy has raised, well, a lot of questions. In this regard, we would like to consider a legislative change in the nature of the tax service. And then business checks wouldn't be so negative. I want to point out that the 10016-d bill, which is submitted in exchange for government and is being proposed today as a basis, and in general, has quite a lot of important comments from the GNEU in setting up the rules on corruption risks. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask you to take the responsibility of voting on this issue and to support the idea of our alternative bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I give the floor to another author of the alternative law, Getmantsev Danil Alexandrovich. I understand that you will be both from the drafters of the bill and from the committee. Right? Please, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I didn't hear when we announced the election, I didn't hear about the announcement, I didn't hear about the date, but I can see that the election campaign had already begun, and its own populism, the politics had dominated the hall. We've seen the first draft in the agenda today, and we see it now, because it's not much now, it's not very little, it's a program with the IMF that depends on the funding of our state next year. These $42.9 billion that you and I should receive from different lenders and from those who grant, they are dependent on and attached to the program. And there's one item that hasn't been done yet: restoring the tests, restoring the pre-war status of the tests. But in the process of negotiating with the International Monetary Fund, we were able to mitigate this requirement. We're re-testing only and exclusively for hazardous enterprises, namely those enterprises that had tax burdens in the 21st year by 50 percent or less than the average in the relevant sector. With respect to income tax and VAT. We don't re-examine in frontal areas, in areas of possible combat, and we allow business to work despite checks. But even if you do not consider this requirement of the International Monetary Fund, please tell me who has the right to refrain from paying military taxes in the country today? Who has the right to avoid? Who has the right to stay out of tax checks without paying taxes for 50 percent or more than the average in the field? Please tell me why you're playing games. Please tell me, when the enemy is not at the gate, but in our territory, when he has seized and occupied our land, what right do you have to do with this populism? What right do you have to these games, these things, these axes about everything good and everything bad? Where is this governmental position that should unite us all? Stop populism, stop playing the enemy's hand, let's work to win. Thank you. Please support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss this bill with factions and groups, please. Please, Herasimov from the procedure. What happened, Arthur Volodymyrovich? Get Gerasim.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u76	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that just in the rostrum no word of the committee's decision has been heard, we've heard a speech that might have been from the faction. No question, take the word, pass it on to Daniel Alexanderovich, and let him come out of the faction with political statements, but we wanted to hear the committee's decision from the rostrum. You've already called attention to this and, please, ask the committee heads or committee rapporteurs again, to give us the opinion of the committee, not the idea of a free topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u77	Thank you. Arthur Volodymyrovich, I can't help but agree, so I'm talking to people who speak both from themselves and from the committee: two minutes from myself, two minutes from the committee. Dear colleagues, let's stick to the rules. You've just finished two minutes of 35 seconds, you've had a really big time. But in the end, I heard that I would like to support you as a whole. It's, I take it, a committee decision. But I agree with that, and I ask the directors of the committees and those who report the laws to pay attention to that. Please, I take it that's what I understand, Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, let me add some reality. This bill is a requirement of the IMF. Like it or not, the bill depends on the country’s funding. For the sake of understanding: we now have an IMF maximum of 6 billion, and in order to budget the parameters that it is now, we need 8-9. And there's no other way to not run this program. He's just gone. We don't like this bill as much as we like it. After Mr. Shurm, during one of the vice president's councils, threw out this rule, the IMF has thrown us into enough trouble. And thanks to Minfin, the committee for making the compromise text during the long talks. Dear colleagues, I love it when business is protected in this room, and we really have to do it. But please tell me, have you seen one statement from any business association against this particular draft of the bill? Do you know why you didn't see her? Because we've been working with them for hours on this committee. And business agrees that you have to check the tobacco, the alcohol, the igorka, the financial services, and even the business that has more turnover of 10 million and pays less than twice as much as everyone else. And that's what the bill "d" says. Colleagues, voting for the return of scheduled documentary tests is never popular, but believe me, it will be much less popular if we don't get the money from the IMF. Then we're going to have to make the sequester very hard. And I ask you not to prove this situation now and to support this bill at least on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u79	Please give the floor to the National Deputy, Black Dmitri Sergiyovich. I understand he's handing over Daniel Alexanderovich, isn't he? Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u80	Thank you, dear colleagues, for your hospitality. As I wish for my performance. Actually, I also have a wish that we actually do the specifics here, not populism and not politics. I think it'll be good for the state. I've really worked hard to get this paper together with the Supreme Council committee, along with the Ministry of Finance, to agree with business and agree with the International Monetary Fund. And this really is a compromise. Because I'm sure there's no person in this room who would object to a state in war being able to ask a question to an enterprise that has a tax burden of 50 percent or more, less than the average in the field. Why? Why is that? And get an answer. Checking is not necessarily fines. Checking is not necessarily the result. But testing is about upholding the legality of a business. And the standards that we're introducing into this little bill are aimed at ensuring this legitimacy. To ensure order and to ensure the arrival of the army. Because you all love, and it might be right to make adjustments to increase the financing of the army. And you and I make the right decisions in the room and we support them. But we have no other source with you than taxes and congregations. And we are obliged to provide you with legal, just, and equal taxation in our country. Not so that some taxes are not paid, but others take on additional burdens. Please support this bill as a whole. We are in a very and very hurry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u81	Please, Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u82	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u83	Please, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, the military are providing our lives with the opportunity to work here in the hall and make decisions. And if they're doing everything to win, we have to do everything we can to win the economic front, which is very important to the military. And now that we're talking about what the money is, please think about what will happen to the Ukrainian business. That you're feeding everyone the mantra right now that this is an IMF requirement. Then, please, all those who have negotiated with the IMF and have not been able to stand down for a moratorium on scheduled documentary checks, because all others are allowed to do so are documentary plans, please resign to the fucking mother. You see what happens to business in Ukraine. You have nothing to do, go learn, work. Now you're feeding us with these words, so please think about what the tax service is different from the baby. You've cursed the baby here because it's the Second Tax Police. The tax service is just like the baby. Maybe she's already working on other criteria, maybe she's rectified, maybe we don't have illegal tax blocking, maybe we have VAT compensation, like we used to be on the register and unappealable. Why are you slapping this one on the ear right now? We've lost negotiations with the IMF, I say again, in resignation, there's nothing you can do here. When a country in war, when it feeds us really small and medium-sized businesses, you now provoke them to re-register and leave Ukraine. If there is no resource in this norm, why this norm, please tell me? 95 percent of payers voluntarily pay their debts. And to say that you're going to look for something in them and add up, it's embarrassing during the war. You cannot vote in favour of this bill. Nothing justifies the actions that are here.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u85	Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, the Fatherland faction. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I've taken the text of the law that we're asked to vote on and it looks very beautiful. Let's do some tests for those who work with excise goods. I'm sorry, we've allowed these tests and they're passing now. Let's do some tests across a range of those who work with those categories that are risky. We've allowed these tests, read the laws that we've approved with you. But for the three standards under which we allowed the tests, six more standards are added, including the standard by which it is allowed to resume the tests on all of them by February 24, 2022. Well, at least read the laws you're advertising here. So do we allow, do we not allow checks on tax goods? And why let them do it if we've already allowed them to do it in a different way. This is actually a system of what's been going on, as far as I know, three big meetings with big business, big taxpayers, along with the President of Ukraine, where they were guaranteed that sample checks would be stopped, either by force or by competitors. How long is this going to go on? That's why our faction, in this case, will not vote in favour of this bill. And we call on the hall, figure out where and where the tests will be conducted. Where they're needed, we've already allowed them. Where "hotels" aren't going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion of this bill and I ask the national deputies to take their seats. Please be ready for the vote. The committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole, I understand. Just on the ground, right? Then I'm going to base the proposal to cut the lines. Okay. Please take your seats, dear colleagues, take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian laws to abolish the moratorium on tax checks (registration number 10016-d). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:00:54]] For 237 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I'm going to propose, cut in half the preparation and supply of proposals and amendments. Danilo Alexandrovich, no. So I'm going to propose, I'm going to cut in half the supply deadline, and I'm going to make amendments to prepare for the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:01:39]] For 239. Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, next bill. The bill, second reading, 9269-d, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds Received by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction in relation to Politically Important Persons. This is the second reading, dear colleagues, I invite Olga Mikhaylovna to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, since the decision of the Conciliation Council, I have written: 12 amendments to the "ES" faction is Heratchenko, Ionova, Klimpus-Cincadze, Friz, Pavelenko. 7 amendments to the potter's office. 23 repairs to Mommy, 9 amendments to Vlasenko. Do I get it right? That's how the system works, right? Then let's get started. We don't have the property, then we won't. Dear colleagues, please let's go through the amendments then, it'll be better. First amendment, Mama. Is he insisting? Don't insist. He insists. Please. Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u88	Look, I'd still like to make a statement -- what I promised you was there for five minutes and put nine amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u89	Please, Grigory Mikolaiovich, five minutes is a speech and nine amendments, you'll tell us which one is for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u90	Yes, the voting numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u91	Okay. Please give me five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u92	Dear fellow national MPs, Ukrainian people! I want to draw your attention, very simply, to the fact that some of the initiators of this bill are still trying to bring or normalize this bill, to run the evaluated monitors into eternity. I'd like to point out that public figures are three categories: local, foreign and legal persons. There are no other public figures. Where can an ordinary citizen, a coworker of a financial institution, see that he is a public person? The answer is nowhere. Only on commercial sites, please note the commercials. This law says about very common simple things, that positions are public. Fin monitoring works on transactions. The National Bank and commercial banks are named after their father. How can the bank monitor positions or by name from which public persons are identified? The source is only one thing when a person comes to the bank and says that he is a public person or not. But if she says she's not and she doesn't have any responsibility, except when the bank refuses to serve. Period. Is there financial monitoring in the State by the National Bank and special services? Yes, it's being held and it's constantly being carried out on money transactions, no last names, please note. This bill, it changes and makes it from three years to forever, that is, the eternal PEP must be, but it returns these PEPs 30 years from the moment the state is independent. Does this law have the power to reverse the law? Yes, it does. Is this a nonsensus that is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine? Yes, it does, it is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Many meetings, and thank you, most of the time for such an organization of work, indeed, for a worthless job in the negotiating position of the Cabinet of Ministers with international partners. But what I want to point out is that all the experts who took part in them have nothing to do with our legislation, which they've spoken about, and they've spoken publicly. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we can take everything for ever, but it is necessary for legislation to work so that there are rules to play. It is impossible to pass the law because it must be – it will not work. The law requires that the rules of play, duty, and responsibility be enforced and placed on the market. For the time being, this law does not regulate, but removes the category for three years, note. When you are in office for five years, four years, or two years, you work, with law enforcement agencies, with banking institutions, with financial institutions monitoring, studying all circumstances, transferring transactions. And the law currently gives you three years to monitor, and three years later, you're not a PEP, you're an ordinary Ukrainian citizen who's not deprived of monitoring and termination of risky operations. Having as many law enforcement agencies as there is in Europe, well listen, then it's necessary to determine whether to not give them the powers of such extended bodies, or still to put some procedures in place forever. I will not personally support this bill, because I think it is still necessary for me to adopt the rules of the game, adopt the rules of the game, and regulate the adaptation law that will be adapted and work, and solve the problem that we want to achieve by this law. For the time being, no one has heard of the need and purpose of this law. If there is a risk, it must be cleaned by other mechanisms. Please put my voting rights to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u93	Thank you. Briefly, please, the position of the committee. And then we're going to vote on those nine amendments, just say their numbers. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u94	Dear Gregory Mikolaiovich, with all due respect to you, will be the sound purpose of this bill: that all persons defined in 361 of the Law, which has been in force since 2020, that is, 3 years, cannot wash the funds and legalize them, the funds obtained by criminal means. This law, not really about a name or a surname, is about the status acquired by a person in the exercise of public functions, so that the individual, by exercising his or her authority and perhaps illegally enriching himself, is unable to legalize the funds obtained in a criminal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u95	Thank you. Grigory Mikolaiovich, you have not mentioned the amendment that you are going to insist on, so please call the numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u96	All positions. No thieves in these positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u97	Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u98	Numbers: No. 5, No. 7, No. 15, No. 103, No. 105, No. 107, No. 109, No. 110 and No. 112.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u99	I'm putting them to the vote now, right? Dear colleagues, amendment number five of Mama's authorship. The committee's dismissed. He's asking you to consider it. You've heard the position of the party. Please vote. [[13:10:18]] For-84 The decision is not taken. The next amendment to number 7 of Mama’s authorship is Grigori Mikolaiovich. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[1:10:42]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next edition of the 15th by Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:11:06]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 103. Now, a second, Gregory Mikolayovich. Amendment to 103 of Mama's authorship as well. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:11:44]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Edit 105 by Mommy. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:12:07]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Edited 107 by Mom and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:12:33]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Amendment 109, authorship of the Mamka and colleagues, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:12:55]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Edit 110, Mamka's authorship, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:13:17]] For-72 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment of the Grigory Mikolaiovich Mama 112 was also rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:13:38]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Grigory Mikolaiovich, all your adjustments, you won't insist on yours anymore, will you? No, no, we'll take turns then, yeah. Come on, let's move on. Next amendment 3, Vlasenko. Don't lie down. 4th, Nekludov. Don't insist. 5th Herat, Irina Volodymyrna. Are you insisting? Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Head, I'm asking you to give me three minutes, it'll be revisions 6, 21 and 28.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u101	It's a 6-mendment. What's the 6th?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u102	6th, 21st and 28th. Please give me three minutes, I'll put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u103	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u104	Three minutes. Dear colleagues, the Czech movement has recently published shocking studies that 80 advisors, state officials, and this structure of these men are working in the Office of the President, and women have actually replaced the state. Nobody chose them, they don't formally work anywhere, they don't get even a lot of wages there, but they run the state by replacing the government, replacing it often with other authorities, giving instructions to law enforcement, to heads of the military and civil administrations, giving instructions to the Speaker of Parliament, even who is to be released and who is not. Because, personally, I was not allowed into the official delegation associated with the election of an observer of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Poland for the fact that our faction required the declaration of outside counsellors of the President’s Office. I want to agree with Mrs. Smogluk, who said that this is about the law, not about the name, but about the principle. We need you to identify those who are socially important, those who influence government decisions, those who have an impact on the budget, those who are currently accumulating huge sums, and they're not declared, they're encrypted somewhere, they're in the crypt, they're in the other people, but they're directing the media, they're directing other directions in the state, and they're not declared. Unfortunately, you've failed the amendment to the Declaration Act, the fact that the stateless and state-of-the-art advisors of the President's Office, the Security and Defence Council, who run the country that now has more authority than to deputize, because you're not in the marathon, they're there, more than ministers, because today the ministers are not responsible for anything, they're being led by out-of-office counsellors of the President's Office. These people have to declare themselves and they have to have the status of PEP a viable public influence, who actually determine state policy, influence public policy. And today they're out of the zone of attention as journalists, as an anti-corruption structure, because they're volunteers, you know, they live like birds, nectars of ambrosia eat without getting paid, but from morning to evening they do something at the President's Office and run the country. And that's why Amendment 6 says that the RER status should be given to the state and state councillors of the President's Office, the Security and Defence Council. Because it's not a protective service today, my friends, and it's essentially the first government in the country, it's basically those structures that replace both the law enforcement agencies and the local authorities, and the authorities, and unfortunately they're giving instructions today both to Parliament and to Parliament. And that's why, if you're a member of the R.E.R., then you're a member of the R.E.R.R.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, just for information. From the "ES" faction, Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich was sent on board. So get rid of the factions. Please take the position of the committee on these three amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Irina, counselors and assistants, and members of the Supervisory Boards are not authorized to perform the functions of the State. They can't make any decisions, they don't sign them, so they don't have to take the criteria you said. In addition, this is contrary to a number of directives implemented in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting these amendments in order. 6 Amendment by Heratchenko and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:18:26]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Amendment 21 is also the authorship of Heratchenko and colleagues. The committee's dismissed. You heard the argument about why. Please vote. [[13:18:53]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. And the amendment of 28 by Heratchenko and colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:19:16]] For-68 Correction rejected. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next amendment 8, Mama. Don't insist. 9th, Fris. Don't insist. You will? Please, Francis Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u108	Mr. Head, I have some amendments. I'm not putting them to a vote. I'd like two minutes, maybe a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u109	Please, two minutes, Fris.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u110	Colleagues, I will speak exclusively as a lawyer. I won't go into detail. I have a key point to this bill. I've been sounding it to our colleagues. When we came here to the Supreme Council, we signed an oath with you and said the words in it. There are two key positions that we will be guided in our activities by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. To my profound conviction, this bill violates, directly violates, 58 articles of the Constitution in part of the rule of law in time. That is, we set separate additional burdensome standards for certain subjects that did not already have these burdensome standards. That is, we distribute the activity of primary financial monitoring subjects, that is, public individuals who monitor others. In my opinion, it's wrong. Of course, voting for everyone, taking into account their own position, but for me and, I believe, for most colleagues, the Constitution is the highest factor with which we came when we went to the elections. So think about how you will vote, how you will vote, and how this will affect society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u111	Thank you. Thank you, Igor Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, let's move on. 10th Amendment, Tkachenko, Slavicka. Don't insist. 11th, Babenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 12th, Wise. Don't insist. 13th, Nekludov. Don't insist. Are you insisting? Please, Nekludov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, this amendment applies to the PEP being compared to the district prosecutors, the district offices of the National Police, the district offices of the State Bureau of Investigation, the territorial departments of the BEB. I think the Ukrainian Security Service, the heads of the appeals courts. I think these people, they're very powerful and very rich with connections that most deputies haven't dreamed of. But I don't understand why we have to ignore them with our own attention, but just write ourselves up usefully so that both the children and our grandchildren will answer, and they'll be in positions and they'll just laugh at how we've brought ourselves into such an honorable mission, and they'll stay behind the stage behind the curtains. I think they also need to get out and cheer them. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u113	The position of the committee is brief, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleague, in fact, you have really passed on the position of many journalists and media today, and of society. But the 361st Act, which we are now making changes to, clearly regulates who is the public person who performs public functions. So it's up to you, but according to the directives we're implementing, your proposal cannot be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 13th amendment is rejected by the committee. You have heard the position of both sides, please vote, 13 amendments. [[13:23:23]] For 115 The decision is not taken. Fourteenth, Nekludov. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 16th, Mama. Don't insist. Next, 22nd, Laba. Don't insist. 25th, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 27th, Mama. Don't insist. 29th, Fris. You've already said that. 32nd, Mama. Don't insist. 33rd, Heratchenko, Ionova, Klimpush-Cincadze. Are you insisting or not? Heratchenka, 33rd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u116	Dear Mr. Head, please, three minutes, and this is an amendment of 33, 45, 51.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u117	No, no, let's take one minute and we'll vote on them. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u118	Three minutes and three corrections, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u119	After one minute, please introduce every correction, we'll understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u120	Thank you. I'm asking for three minutes, you know, I'm asking you not to show double standards, but give me three minutes and three corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u121	Please, 33 amendments, Irina Volodymyrically, we talk more about what we're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, we see the double standards of the Head of the Supreme Council. What is the point of this amendment? About the fact that we are proposing to create a special register of publicly important people, to which not only those who are now, according to this bill, should be included, namely, ministers and former presidents and national deputies, but also councillors, outsiders of the President's Office, who are now in charge of the country. I'm sorry that the reporter's telling the theory, isn't it? That these are the people who are the patrons, but in practice these people are the leaders of the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u123	33 revisions, Heroshenko. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:25:21]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 34, Babenko, and colleagues. Don't insist. 35th, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 39th, Honcharenko Alexiyyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u124	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have seven amendments. I'd ask for five minutes and a dot at that, and I'm not going to put them directly. So if you'll just give me five minutes to re-start my time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u125	Please, in 7 amendments, 5 minutes, please, Alexeiyovich. And we don't vote them, do we?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u126	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u127	Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u128	Dear friends! You and I are now considering an important law, a law that speaks of who should declare and how. I certainly support that all those who have a real bearing on the work of the State, on the control of state finances, so that all of these people can declare themselves directly. And personally, I'm totally ready to do this, and I'm ready to do my declaration, and I'm ready to do it. And you and I are saying that we need to move on and adopt this law, which is called the PEP. I mean, to have control over the years for those who directly perform the functions of the state, it's important. But, my friends, I want to pay your attention to what's going on. We have the greatest influence in the country today with a number of people called the President's Office's advisors, the President's advisors. These people, it turns out, are an incredible number. One German has 58 various assistants, 7 deputies, 13 advisers, 10 more advisers, another head of the secretariat, or dozens of them. These people directly influence and control all issues in our country. These people are the main people in our country, because our state has long turned into an office-president instead of a parliamentary-presidential state. And that's why these people have to declare themselves, they have to be PEP, they have to be followed, they have their hands, because there's so much government money and property on these hands, and all that's incredible. But these people are not in the law. Again, no! You know, this law can be called, "Get your hands off your friends." This is going to be an honest title of this law, and so no one knows about them yet how much they've earned, what they've earned, what they've stolen, what they've got, what they might still want to keep a secret. And at this time, you know, I think, well, you're Jermak, well, you've got so many opportunities, powers and all, maybe you could organize a job for the President's Office, well, there's only 58 counselors working for you. Is that what it is? Friends, and now, on the work of the President's Office, on one very illustrative example, this refers to our military, which we have here always, military, hero glory and minimal respect. On June 30, you and I passed the law, the law of Ukraine, which provides for it. No, we've accepted it even before, and on June 30, it came into force with the President's signature, all right. What do you think, at this moment in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, even though one of them received this payment? No, it's not. Nobody. No one's ever received that supplement in the U.S.S.A. So in Nachwardia, thank God, they got it, they got it in the DSS, and no one got it there. Once again, the fourth month goes, the law works, the banal bureaucratic work can't do and pay money to those who protect us. And even in this law, it was, let's let the timers move into the mobilized, well, we're told, we need people on the front. Yes, please, voluntary law, thousands of timers are waiting for this to enable young people who are healthy, who have already been trained to take them into the mobilized, to be able to do battle tasks. People want it, the state needs it, the law we finally passed with you. Now, the simple thing is, the President's Office was to prepare changes to the President's Order on the order of conduct of military service. The fourth month they couldn't do it, the fourth month. What does Jermak do? What do these 58 counselors do? They're bullying us because they can't do the simplest job in the world. I demand that this be done immediately so that this law is unlocked. And these are all counselors who need to be picked up and given a kick, and the first is the German, and this is the law that has to be the land of the Jermak for how he organized it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u129	40 amendment, Granny with her colleagues. Declined. Don't insist. 43rd, Batenko Taras Ivanovich with colleagues. Don't insist. 44th Mamka Grigory Mikolayovich. Don't insist. 45th, Hero. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u130	Dear Mr. Head, I hope there are no double standards now. I have five amendments, I ask you to give me four minutes after it. Please, 45, 51, 54, 64 and 92, please give me four minutes to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u131	Please, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so shocking information, in the Office of the President, imagine how many people work there, this information is a military secret of the state, as secret as is the number of our Armed Forces of Ukraine. But the movement was honest enough to find out that there are as many as 80 counselors, counselors who work there from morning to evening because they are not officially there. But they're the kind of volunteers who sit in the marathon, run the country, comment on everything in the world. They're talking about the Supreme Council of Ukraine, about the army. They promise the country that there will be two or three more shots, and it'll be good that we have two or three weeks and they'll drink coffee in Crimea. That is, they carry every threshold, nothing they're responsible for, no one knows what they're living for. At the same time, our partners — the IMF, the European Union, the United States — rightly point out that corruption is one of the key problems that eats up the state today and must be tackled together. And at this time, journalists' investigations are coming out that say that the President's Office is such a source of corruption. For example, the Vice-President of the President's Office, Mr. Shurma, sells, whether he is close or close to him, electricity to occupied areas for hundreds of millions of dollars, essentially sponsoring the Russian Federation and the militants. And there's no responsibility for that. Your reporter rightly says that in normal countries, the patronage services are not declared, but Ukraine is today the office-presidential republic. We have the head of Parliament, who is the second person in the parliamentary-presidential republic, on the phone from the President's Office, who is not issuing the opposition to the ship, who is blocking the opposition during international activities. We have the Prime Minister following all the instructions of the President’s Office. We have recently met journalists and asked them not to talk about corruption. These multimillion-dollar budgets, the political censorship that we can and cannot talk about, these positive bloggers who live on envelopes are being directed by the outside counsellors of the President's Office. And Mrs. Reporter, who's an education journalist, knows that very well. And it's not normal when Medvedczuk's channel, 1+1, for example, continues to be broadcast in the marathon today at state expense, and politics does not even deal with this Medvedczuk channel, but outsiders of the President's Office, as in Medvedczuk's best time, give the darkers who can be shown there, and these are the advisors of the President's Office, and who can't. And this is an opposition that doesn't even have the right to tell us today about the bills that we're adopting. And that's why we really want Ukraine to be a civilized state, so that all of these people, who are actually doing state government today, they have open declarations, they're declared. They were PEP, and then they told, a few days after they lost power, about how they lived for five years, nowhere to work, on volunteer grounds, eating nectar ambrosia, not getting paid, how they lived and how their property changed. And that's why we're proposing and asking that we support this so that the 80 advisors of the President's Office, who have replaced the government today, the local self-government authorities, unfortunately, are influencing the Head of the Supreme Council, who can't afford for the first time in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism to be independent and protect parliament, even to say that it's not tourists in striped bathing suits, it's politicians who are doing important work in international diplomacy. We also want to protect the Chief of the Supreme Council today, my friends, he's going to declare himself, he's going to be a viable PEP. Yeah, maybe those people who phone him all the time and tell him who to press and do the same thing are going to declare?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u133	Irina Volodymyrna, I appreciate your concern for me very much, but I'm afraid not. Irina Volodymyr is, unfortunately, not. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u134	Thank you. My dear colleague, I don't know who eats the nectar and I don't look anyone in the mouth. I've supported your review of the councillors' declaration, but let's work it out. We're looking at another bill right now, he's talking about PEP. Who are the Peps? They are persons authorized to perform the functions of the State. They are those who do not counsel, and those who do, in effect, make decisions and sign them. I'll tell you a terrible secret: every President in this country has had dozens of counselors and not all of them, as you say, have been eating ambrosia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, please move on. 46th, Fris. Don't insist. 47th. What? What? You. We vote them all, don't we? Okay. 45 revisions, Heroshenko. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:37:16]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 51 Amendment Heratchenko and colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:37:37]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 64th. 54? 54 amendments, by Heratchenko, were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:38:06]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 64 amendments, by Heratchenko and by colleagues, were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:38:27]] For-51 The decision is not taken. And 92 amendments, by Heratchenko and colleagues, were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:38:48]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 46th, Fris. He doesn't insist anymore. 47th, Rapina. Don't insist. 50th, Silent. Don't insist. 52nd, Goncharenko. I've already used it. Next. 55th, Goncharenko. I used my adjustments. In the '60s, too, Goncharenko used it. 61st, Silent. Don't insist. 62nd, Batenko. Don't insist. 63rd, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 65th, Goncharenko. Don't insist. 66th, Babenko. Don't insist with your colleagues. 69th, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 70th, Mama. Don't insist. 71st Batenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 72nd, Mama and her colleagues. Don't insist. 73rd, Fris. I've already used my amendment. 74th, so did Fries and his colleagues. I used the amendment. 75th, Goncharenko. Don't insist. 76th, Rapina. Don't insist. 77th, Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Don't insist. 78th, Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich. Don't insist. It's the '80s. Grandma doesn't insist with her colleagues. 81st, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 82nd, Goncharenko. Don't insist. 87th. Fries and his colleagues don't insist. The '90s, Silent. Don't insist. 91st, Mama. Don't insist. 93rd, Mama. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite the national deputies to the hall. I can see that we will soon move on to making a decision. 95th, Batenko. Don't insist. 96th, Fris. Don't insist. 97th, Tachenko. Don't insist. 98th, Babenko. Don't insist. 99th, Tachenko. Don't insist. 101st, Bujansky. Don't insist. 102th, Mamka. Don't insist. 104th, Hero. Don't insist. 106th, Tachenko. Don't insist. You insist. Please, just a second then. 104th. Heratchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u136	Dear Mr. Head, Irina Fryz, introduce 104 and 113 amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u137	Please, it's 104th first. Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u138	Thank you, Mr. Head. I ask you to give me two minutes and then put to the vote one of these rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u139	Look, guys, once again, it doesn't take two minutes to make two adjustments, it takes five amendments three minutes. Two for two doesn't work. Then report one at a time, or take one minute. I think it's logical to report one by one, then you'll have the opportunity to speak twice. Okay? Please, let's do 104. Please, Irina Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u140	Thank you, Mr. Head. It's actually a technical readjustment. And I would like to refer again to what has already been called into the House of People's Deputies before the vote, to listen to the need to declare and submit to this bill the so-called Councilors of the President's Office. You know, an article in Ukrainian Truth called "The Country of Counselors" is no longer just a meme, it's a testimony that we're turning into a country of shadow rule. More than 80 of the President's Office's advisors are nonsensians who do not declare themselves and are actually shadowy in the way that they manage the state at all levels. We believe that it is necessary to make a declaration and introduce the bill of advisors to the President's Office in order for people to see who is not only broadcasters from television screens and international arenas, but also directly manages the country in places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u141	Thank you. It was a 104 amendment. Next, 108th, Tachchenko. Don't insist. 111th, Babenko with colleagues. Don't insist. And 113 final amendment. And Irina Fries. Please. One more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u142	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we're actually turning into a country of fake facades. We have a government officially approved. We have an officially elected Parliament. But we have a bunch of counselors that no one sees. We're turning into a country of shadow rule. It's an unacceptable thing. Therefore, we insist on the need for all counselors not to fall under the so - called, protective service but to the official and public disclosure of their activities, their expenses, and their savings. Because it's a principle position for everyone in this room. Why do we declare ourselves, or, so-called, by speaking only in a very shameful way to members of parliament by promoting declarations? Counselors should also declare themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u143	Committee position, please. Dear colleagues, after that we will proceed to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u144	Dear colleague, I respect your position. The only thing I'm going to say is that we're going to face a huge resistance to the PEP and the status of the PEP of all jobs in any year, and we're going to have a million counselors who will also become the PEP. I'm not jealous of these people and how they're going to react to your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-17-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, I ask you to take your seats. Oh, I need a fix. 113 revisions. Now, just a second. Dear colleagues, this is the final 113 revision of Friz and his colleagues. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[13:44:58]] For 118 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to take your seats. I think it's going to be one of the most important votes we have today. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that last July this hall was hosted by a flag from the European Union and it is here. I always emphasize that the flag of the European Union is not just a right, it is a great responsibility for us with you, including how we will move forward. I would like to inform you that depending on the outcome of this vote, whether we will have the prospect of opening negotiations with the European Union by the end of this year or not. I understand all the nuances when it hurts everyone when there are, perhaps, some internal issues that I would not like to vote on. But I think we're all now, the whole Supreme Council has to pass a test on whether the statesmen are here, or whether the people who dream of their own interests for the future. I'm asking you very much, this is a big vote. I call all of you, please, just a green button. Green button is our way to the European Union. Please, please. Dear colleagues, in order for us to do everything for you, let me make an exclusive announcement after this vote using the 28th article of the Rules, a signal vote on this bill, so that we do not have the right to fail this bill. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to vote who will vote is very responsible. I'm putting a signal vote on Bill 9269-d. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:47:14]] For 247 Thank you, colleagues. Taking advantage of the possibility, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds obtained by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction, concerning politically significant persons (registration number 9269-d). I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:48:03]] For 276 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues, congratulations! Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today is complete, thank you all for your fruitful work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session, the time and place of its holding, the continuation, I apologize, you will be notified in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. Together to victory and the glory of Ukraine!
