ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is on a business visit abroad. [[B in m in s a l in]] Helen Kostvena and I thank you for your support. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call under conditions of martial law" today, we continue our plenary session. I note that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the opening of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to abide by the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Dear colleagues, in Parliamentary tradition, I invite everyone to perform the State Hymn of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u2	Heroic glory! Today is the 559th day of the heroic resistance of the Ukrainian people in the full-scale armed aggression of the Russian Federation. Our defense forces are moving forward as we step by step, liberating our home land. We express our heartfelt gratitude to all who defend and free our nation from the aggressor. Thank you all for working hard in the back to win. Please pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of defenders and protectors who have fallen for sovereignty, independence, the territorial integrity of Ukraine, and all the innocent victims of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Dear colleagues, on September 4, 1991, a blue and yellow flag was first raised over the House of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, today the State Flag of Ukraine. May he, with God’s help and our national efforts, always take the lead over the Ukrainian Parliament, affirming the development of an independent Ukrainian state, as an embodiment of more than a thousand years of Ukrainian aspirations for unity, sovereignty and self-determination. We believe that soon our flag will return to all the cities and villages of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Thank you. Today is the birthday of our colleague of the Ukrainian national deputy Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev. [[Applause]] We welcome the noun and wish him good health, strength, new perfection, and Ukraine’s fastest victory. Dear colleagues, as we conclude our previous session, we have one important element to carry out, so I'm handing over the word to Olena Kostovni Kondratjuk for the announcement of parliamentary inquiries. After the announcement, there will be a vote of motions to the President, so don't go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u3	Thank you, Your Honor Alexander Sergiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read them, if I may, in silence, because then I will not read them, these are your parliamentary requests. Thus, 34 parliamentary inquiries were made for the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of these, 8 to the President of Ukraine, 0 to the Supreme Council, 10 to the Cabinet of Ministers, 15 to the heads of other public authorities and local authorities, to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of ownership, 1. People's deputies' requests. July Lighthouse to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General's Office on the inaction of law enforcement authorities in investigating the death of a citizen named Semenchenko Denis Yuriovich. Sergija Vlasenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to leave the Lviv Criminal Experimental Enterprise of Movements and Prosthetics to the administration of the State Property Fund of Ukraine as a matter of urgency. Alexander Tkachenka and Antonina Slavicki to the Attorney General on the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Groups of People's Deputies (Herachenko, Ionova, Klimpush-Cincadze) to head the board of the National Social Broadcasting Corporation of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the creation of content for the Telarafone "The Only News #UAraz" and the use of funds from the National Budget of Ukraine. Irina Gerashchenko and Maria Ionov to the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the application of measures to confirm the participation of Babić Glib Valeriyovich in the field defence and/or to participate in measures necessary to ensure the defence of Ukraine, protect the security of the population and the interests of the State in connection with the military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. Alexander Kachura to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for Information on Pension Insurance for Ukrainian Citizens. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for the provision of information and copies of documents on the construction, land management, municipal property and building control of the Umman City Council to citizens of the permits for the establishment of fixed temporary facilities for the conduct of entrepreneurial activities in the territory of the Umman City District District for the period from May 15, 2023 to today. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for the provision of copies of documents issued by a natural entrepreneur on the basis of which a rental of immovable property of municipal property was made and which, in the future, enabled him to obtain compensation for the value of renting irresistible improvements in the leased property. Anton Yatzenka to the head of the Office of Labour and Social Protection of the Population of the City Council for the provision of information and copies of documents on the premises for internally displaced (evolved) persons at the Social Hotel of the Centre for Integrated Social Services for the Management of Labour and Social Protection of the Population of the Uman City Council. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Klimpus-Cincadze and others). A total of 14 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the strengthening of the defence borders of the north-eastern regions of Ukraine, and to the authorities of the executive branch of the State of take-up of military engineering and fortification facilities in the context of the ongoing full-scale invasion of the Russian Federation into Ukraine. Alexander Bakumova to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the protection of the environmental rights of Ukrainian citizens, residents of the territorial community of the city of Kharkova. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionov to the Chief Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the use of measures to count the dead defenders of Ukraine – Glagotsky Oleg Vasilovich, Gabriela Petra Jaroslavovich, Karban Anatoly Evgenovich, Judenko Dmitr Anatoliyovich and Prokopenka Alexija Borisovich to the names of the military units (mortal). Alexander Jurchenka to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the application for the assignment of the Hero of Ukraine (death) to Rudenko Sergio Sergiyyovich. Alexander Jurchenk to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the name of the street, an alley for military serviceman Rudenka Sergija Sergiyyovich. Alexander Jurchenka to the head of the Kyiv City Military Administration for the provision of information on the number, the readiness of shelters in the educational institutions of Kiev, and the number of students they are counting on. Groups of National Deputies (Morose, Aliens and others) A total of 9 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the introduction to the President of Ukraine of an application for the award of an honorary award to the City Hero of Ukraine to the city of Marinka Donetsk. Anton Yatzenka, under the temporary responsibility of the Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, to provide information on the transfer to the public organization "Dubiyivka Society" of fishing grounds for fishing in the Cherka district of Cherkas region, a total area of 5613.3 hectares for 15 years. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for the issuance of copies of permits issued by the Urban Administration, the land administration of municipal property, and the construction control of the Umman City Council, the executive committee of the Umman City Council, which entitles the construction of buildings located at 56 Tourist Street. Tourists, 62 (formerly Pushkina Street), Uman, Uman district of Cherkas region Anton Yatzenka to the head of the district military administration of the Cherka district for the provision of information and copies of documents relating to the size of salaries, allowances, allowances, bonuses, material assistance, transportation and other expenses incurred by the head of the Umman district military administration, Miklaschuk Igor Mikolaiovich, during the period from February 24, 2022 to the date of the parliamentary request. Anton Yatzenka, head of the State Security Service of Ukraine for the provision of information on persons who have been entered into the Path system from February 24, 2023 to the date of the parliamentary request for the Cherkas region. Alexander Bakumov to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on ensuring the principles of equality and social justice in the implementation of tax laws. Groups of National Deputies (Gnatenka, Lukasheva, Moroz) to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the granting of a subsidy for the construction of additional shelters. Alexander Sergiyovich, that's all the MPs ask, the rest of us have eight to the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u4	Thank you, Olena Kostvena. Thank you. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Let's move on to the vote of motions to the President of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there is no procedure during the inquiry. It's all read what the Apparatus gave us, it's all read. [[B in m in s a l in]] Go to the apparatus. I'm not a camera. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't have that question. Come on, invite the deputies to the hall, please. Yes, Your Honor, in order to understand now the prospects for voting on requests, I propose that we conduct a signal vote in accordance with article 28 of the Rules. In accordance with Article 28 of the Rules, I request a vote. Please vote. [[12:18:54]] For a hundred and Against the 15th. Please invite the deputies to the hall. We have the first question about the admission of the hero of Ukraine, it will not be nice to fail it now. Come on, look for more deputies, please. Dear colleagues, we have eight requests to the President of Ukraine. Request by Irina Borzov to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of Maxime Kaminsky to the title Hero of Ukraine (death). In accordance with article 75, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote a proposal for previous support of the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:21:02]] For 248 Decision taken. Request supported. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34. Let's see the factions. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:21:35]] For 255 Decision taken. Request directed. The request by Anton Yatzenk to the President of Ukraine for systematic cases of inappropriate and unwarranted military conditions for the allocation of funds from the local budget of the Ummansk Municipal District Assembly of the Cherkas region for non-State defence, for ignoring the President’s position on the allocation of local budgets and the need for immediate use of appropriate response measures. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote a proposal for previous support of the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:22:26]] For-162 Request previously supported. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:22:58]] For-151 The decision is not taken. The request is not addressed to the President of Ukraine. Request by Artem Dmitruk to the President of Ukraine for the risk of evicting the Tsunami regiment of the United Storm Brigade of the National Police of Ukraine from occupied premises. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote a proposal for previous support of the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:23:38]] For 218. Decision taken. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:24:07]] For 233 Decision taken. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. The request by Boris Prijdzick to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine (died) military officer of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to the Gaulszki Vladislav Aleksandrovitch. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I am voting on a proposal for previous support of a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:24:45]] For 256 Decision taken. Request supported. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:25:14]] For 260 Decision taken. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. The request of Mikola Zadrojny to the President of Ukraine for the award of Prudić Sergio Mikolaiovich by the name of Hero of Ukraine (after death). In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I am voting on a proposal for previous support of a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:25:53]] For 257 Decision taken. Request supported. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:26:20]] For 264 Decision taken. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Roman Gritchcock's MP's request to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of Find Alexia's status as the Hero of Ukraine. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote a proposal for previous support of the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:26:56]] For 268. Decision taken. Request supported. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. [[12:27:23]] For 259. Decision taken. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. A request from Julia Yatzik to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the City of Orikhs to the district of Zaporozhye for the honour of the City Hero of Ukraine. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote a proposal for previous support of the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. Nuts. [[12:28:01]] For 263 Decision taken. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:28:28]] For 259. Decision taken. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. And the final request by Dmitri Kostuk to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the title Hero of Ukraine (mortal) with the award of the Golden Star Order to Kostuchenko Sergey Petrovich, senior sergeant, the service of the grenade squad of the military support unit A2076. In accordance with article 34, paragraph 34 of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote a proposal for previous support of the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:29:19]] For 273 Decision taken. Request supported. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 34, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote the proposal to send a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:29:46]] For 273 Decision taken. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Thank you. Eternal glory to the heroes. The procedure is called Honcharenko, Ivanna Orestovna. Are you out of procedure, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Okay. Then who's the first one? Come on, Honcharenko, Klimpush-Cincadze and Razumkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u5	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko. Friends, there's some sort of deceiving act of deputation. Mr. Chairman, as our current Head of the Supreme Council is in the field of deployment, I take it, abroad, I would like to remind you that I have asked a parliamentary question about those who, since 1 January, have all the orders of the Head of the Supreme Council for the deployment of the National Deputies. And it just turns into some kind of detective. At first, I made a statement to the MP, and they said, "No, we're not going to answer the question, ask the MP." I asked the MPs, and they won't read it for a few months, for a few months. I was just told that the control department, Valentina Leonidovna's Sculpture, didn't transfer anything. It's just sabotage, it's not random, it's a conscious attempt to hide this information. I demand an investigation in the apparatus and an immediate reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u6	Please, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze. I'm out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to you, just when I was reading the questions, my request was not read, which was made by me on June 14, 23rd. A document card, as stated on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that it is prepared for announcement No. 1217286. The request also refers to the amount of budgetary resources spent on the deployment of representatives of the Apparat, assistants, and advisors to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I understand that this information, our colleagues don't want to advertise it to society. I demand: first read this request; second, conduct a service investigation into why it was not submitted to the Governing Council for reading. Thank you. And to present the information here, in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u8	Thank you. Mentality is procedure. And Jacenko later.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u9	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, Olena Kostovna, first of all, I would like to thank you for having finally read the questions in the Supreme Council walls in the Supreme Council Hall. But I would like to ask you to put to the vote a procedural question and a suggestion that at each meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, one of the representatives of the Presidency -- or the Head, or the First Deputy, or the Deputy, depending on who is present at the meeting, read the questions that came from the national deputies during this time period. This is the question of all the national deputies who are in the hall. Alexander Sergiyovich, as presiding officer, I ask you to put such an offer to the vote and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u10	Thank you. Now we're gonna listen to Anton Yatzenk. If there's no other offer, we'll put it in. Maybe he has his own. Then we're in order. Anatoly Yatzenko, from the procedure, we will continue to make a proposal to Razumkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u11	Mr. Chairman, I would like to point out that, in April months, I have asked questions concerning certain missions of national deputies abroad, but since April, they haven't read them. I have a question: What's the difference between asking MPs, why can't some be read, and others that's uncomfortable, so to speak? And the second question. Right now, my request to the President by the MPs for the Umani City People's Service has come to a standstill. So the president himself said not to buy stadiums, braids during the war. But it's probably a different position here and it's covered in something.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u12	This is no longer a procedure, Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u13	I'm sorry. But a request for an answer to the first question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u14	Everything about the work of the apparatus will be passed on to them. I'm betting on the voting proposal by Dmitri Alexandrovich Razumkow as he sounded it. Please vote. [[12:34:39]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's not break up! We have a very important moment now, and we're in charge -- we're moving to the tenth session. To get into the tenth session, we need to register first. So prepare yourself for registration, please. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, the Resolution on certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call in the Conditions of Operation of the Military State, concludes today the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call. [[Applause]] Let us thank the ninth session and our work in this ninth session. Many decisions were made.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u15	According to part of the first article 26 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we need to register with the electronic system before opening the plenary session of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. I remind you, once the registration is started, it's necessary to keep the sensor button pressed on the green "Z" button. So now red and yellow don't fit. It's your responsibility and then your status on the website. But keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the registration. Are you ready for your registration? People's deputies please register. [[12:36:15.]] There are 284 national deputies registered in the hall. Please show the factions the registration, if possible. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Resolution on certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call in the Conditions of Operation of the Military State, the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call and its plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. At the same time, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Assembly and its plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declare open. What are we all greeted with? Tenth anniversary session. [[Applause]] Are we gonna sing the hymn again? Come on. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Thank you. I wish all of us that the tenth session would be a Jubilee, filled with beautiful, useful decisions for the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes before the daytime affairs were discussed for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Members of the MPs and groups, please sign up for the performance. Please, Voice, Kostenko Roman Vasilovich. Will there be someone? Who's with the Voice?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u16	Other Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u17	Sussun Inna Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u18	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, on December 1, 2022 President Zelensky said in his speech: "We will ensure spiritual independence. We will never allow anyone and anyone to build an empire within the Ukrainian soul." There was still a more specific decision than the President. The PNB commissioned the government to submit a bill to the Supreme Council that would make it impossible for Ukraine to operate with centres of influence in the Russian Federation of Religious Organizations. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the President's faction, this statement by the President took 278 days. During this time many events took place around the Russian Orthodox Church here in Ukraine. We saw local council decisions breaking leases with the Moscow Church here in Ukraine. We saw the disgraceful refusal of Moscow’s priests to bury Ukrainian military forces. We also, and this has to be admitted, have seen arrests and searches in individual Moscow church officials. And someone might think that's enough, they said, to arrest those who work directly for Russia. Now they've arrested the chairman of the Kiev-Pecher Lavre Paula, also known as Pasha-Mercedes, isn't that enough? No, guys, that's not enough. We don't have enough to arrest individual Moscow church officials here in Ukraine, because we need to eradicate this church here in Ukraine. I want to remind you of those who have forgotten the reaction of the head of the Moscow Church here in Ukraine of Mitrovica Onufria to Paul's arrest. He said, "We take it with sadness and regret, and there's just some misunderstanding." He referred to as a misunderstanding among others the published WBS records, in which Paul, including the completely reproducing Russian narratives, said that Russia's invasion of Ukraine was the war between America and Russia and the last Ukrainian, and he was also happy to have Harrison released. I am not surprised that the citizen of Russia, Onufrei, considers Paul’s arrest to be a misunderstanding, but I am surprised that so far the Ukrainian Parliament has done nothing to eradicate the activities of the Russian Church here in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the honourable presidency, my colleagues and I have initiated an appeal to Parliament's presidency to consider such legislation that prohibits the activity of the Moscow Church here in Ukraine. There are five such bills today, and we have enough to choose from. Today, 130 deputies have signed up for this appeal. And we very much hope that political courage will be enough to finally bring this address to fruition, and we here in Parliament have fulfilled what the President promised 278 days ago, and we have finally ensured the spiritual independence of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u19	Thank you. "Serve of the people," please, Kowalczuk, Kostuk. Dmitry's Costume, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u20	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Please consider my MP's speech as a request to the Attorney General's Office, the National Police, the D.B.I. I'm going to talk about how the ordinary Ukrainian city spends military VAT -- a topic that we'll soon consider in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. More than 200 million dollars were immediately allocated in this year’s budget to such a city as Zwegel for repairs of roads and gravel. This is constantly increasing, it's already going for over half a billion dollars, and in the pre-war period, by the start of a full-scale war, it was only 13 million dollars. What is this, Big Construction? No, it's not. In fact, it is about cave repairs, pit repairs, and current road repairs. Because of the local two firms that distribute all tenders for road construction, they have neither people nor technology to do capital road repairs. Both companies are state-of-the-art companies of the city council of Zviagel, one of them even leads a commission that deals with the distribution of road repair costs. But that's not all, there's other officials, there's other offices that are also trying to work, make the most of it during the war. Maybe you heard the war was over. Maybe Ukraine has won already? In fact, more than 6 million dollars are spent on repairs to clubs in Zvägel. 6 million dollars -- how many drones can you buy? While the military raises funds, their relatives raise funds. It's actually a very good management manager, a BSS lieutenant who avoids mobilization, who knows what numbers to add to the project documentation and who to give out the tenders to. And it's a waste of money that happens every day. Every day at the expense of the military, from the military PDF, which is still in place. There, for some reason, these costs are not spent on shelter, in support of the military, they're spent like this: while a million Ukrainians are raising funds, they're helping the army, billions of dollars all over the country go into the pockets of certain parts that they decided to live on at that time. It's a feast during the war. You and I in the Supreme Council have given up spending on socio-economic development in the regions last year. Last year, this year, that's why there's a war in the country, because there's no money because all the government budget costs go to the army. At the same time, the district center, where 50,000 people, Zwegel received half a million dollars each of the city council’s deputies on the social council. Pier during the war. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u21	Please, Fatherland. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u22	Today's Parliament meeting is symbolic enough. And it's not just symbolic because we've entered an age when we clearly understand that to declare independence, to create all the attributes of the state, all the institutions of the state -- it's very important, but equally important -- to protect the state. And in that sense, the "Paternity" faction was very carefully being prepared for this plenary week. And we think it's one of those weeks where every decision really becomes historic. And the restoration of electronic declaration, and the financial monitoring of the lives of officials, the issues that are directly related to the most important are our soldiers, the protection of their status, the financing, the key points that relate to the overall functioning of the Ukrainian army -- all of this together only inspires respect for today's agenda. But you and I, at the same time, clearly understand that this is the kind of question that needs to be in order of the day, and that's the kind of question that should be concerned about society and reflected in the session room. For the "Paternity" faction, there are a few fundamental points that we're going to hear today during these most important decisions. But I would like to warn you, and one more important question, I would like to call it a whole personnel question -- a question that didn't just mature, but matured, a question that needs to be resolved yesterday, maybe the day before yesterday. These are the questions that allow us today to give absolutely clear answers to whether we hear society, whether we have all the possibilities today to correct the terrible mistakes we've made, but at the same time move forward, not back. And I think for that, those plenary sessions that are going to be these days give us a clear opportunity to move forward. The Fatherland faction supports this order of the day, and those fundamental moments that I have heard will vote for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u23	"For the future," please, Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u24	Dear fellow national MPs, I agree with previous speakers that today is a special day for us and, in particular, a special and symbolic day in the field of human resources. Today we will be considering the appointment of a minister of defense and, at the same time, there was a question and appointment of a minister of culture. But in the daytime we don't see this personnel question, and unfortunately. Because this is another opportunity to talk about a crisis that is unfortunately created in Ukrainian culture. And this is a testimony that we don't understand that the issue of defense of the country and of culture is the same, not the opposite, but the same, because we're talking about defence, about protection of our country, and culture is the exact source and it has a similar function to protect. Moreover, I will say that thanks to the potential of culture, we can use it as a soft force and attack. And if we didn't treat culture as marginal, maybe we wouldn't see in the world the kind of reaction that we see in Ukraine right now. I hope that most of the people's deputies have paid attention to the publication when the UN commission testified that there is not enough evidence to acknowledge the genocide in Ukraine. Please tell me what became of the UN commission to claim that there was no genocide in Ukraine? And I'll tell you, didn't we just give this a reason when we didn't allocate funding for the restoration of the Goldilocks-Genocide Museum? Why does Pope Francis have the right to speak of Russia as a country of great culture? Because he does not know about Ukraine as a country of great culture. What have we done to promote Ukraine as a country of great culture? That is why I call on both Parliament's leadership and the central executive authority to bring a candidate for the post of Minister of Culture to the Supreme Council's attention in the near future. We need to solve this right now because the next fiscal year is coming, and this is about funding our media, especially the Social Fund, it's about funding books, funding libraries. And as long as someone's criminal schemes are in the pipeline, we're smothering Ukrainian culture with our own hands. So please vote in the near future for the Minister of Culture and we support those who really care about the development of Ukrainian culture and the humanitarian sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u25	Kulinich, please, "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u26	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. More than nine years of war in Ukraine and over a year and a year and a full - scale invasion of the enemy has taken place. Since February 2022, the number of wounded, disabled persons, persons in need of rehabilitation, physical rehabilitation, and psychological assistance has increased greatly among the military. So far, one of the key social issues in the state is this issue. That is why the program of social rehabilitation for veterans and their families was launched in Poland for the first time at the expense of the district budget. Also, a pilot project on the social recovery of active military personnel was carried out on the basis of private funds involved by our team. It is very important that veterans and active military personnel have received social rehabilitation services along with their families -- wives and children. And the families of the military are having a very difficult time coping with divorce, absence of parents, so they certainly need psychological help within the framework of our program of defenders and their families, and they have received the full range of measures to improve their physical and psychological well - being. Moreover, the service of social rehabilitation was based on the personal needs of each of the defenders who were first identified. And it was beneath them that an individual program was developed. A multi-disciplinary team of psychologists, social educators and psychiatrists, was selected and trained. And these multi-disciplinary teams of the University of Minnesota and the Ministry of Defense have done very well in this project and have provided their professional assistance, just from experience with the participants in the fighting. So after completing the ten-day course of social rehabilitation, we've only received positive feedback. The defenders will continue to be accompanied in many communities of Poltavščina, which have also supported the project. I am convinced that the program of social rehabilitation for both veterans and active military personnel should be expanded throughout the country. The Poles are ready to share our successful experiences. I'm sure in most areas there's appropriate infrastructure, there's appropriate conditions and possibilities. I want to personally thank Minister of Social Policy Oksani Žolnović for supporting our initiative and active cooperation in this project. Now, the MINS, the Mini-Defense and the Minveterans are working on an appropriate draft decision, a corresponding draft decision. And so I would like to ask Prime Minister Dennis Schmigal personally to speed up the consideration of such a draft decision. Our military and veterans should be given a quality service of social recovery together, and I want to point out that it is especially with their families, because they need it and they deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u27	"European Solidarity", Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! I welcome the beginning of the tenth session. I would like to point out that we must now concentrate exclusively on the bills of the army, on the bills of our movement to the EU and NATO and on the bills of state-building, including language and faith. I'd like to point out the army at once. Last night, I registered a bill that was drafted, including a working group, to provide combat participants to all the military personnel that were submitted by the commanders. You don't have to humiliate Ukrainian soldiers by standing in long lines. We have up to a million participants today: automatically form, issue, and do not humiliate the soldiers. For today there are prisoners of war, whose families are deprived of benefits, today there are Asians. Today, there are those who are already ordinarily without participants, and their children will not be able to enter higher educational institutions, they will not be able to get land. And I don't understand who needs this bureaucratic procedure. And I urge everyone to join, sign and act as co-sponsors of the UCD Act. There is a absolutely unacceptable absence of government, because even the law that we have passed by 30,000 is still not fully implemented. The rest of the bills, including improvements in security, with drones, with the upper council shells, should be the first priority. The second position is our movement in the EU and NATO. Restoring e-declaration is an important step that is nearing the start of EU accession negotiations. In our own time, we created SAP, NABU, conducted a competition for the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, established all necessary positions and ensured their independence. I firmly believe that the position on the electronic declaration that I would like to stress right now is, for open declarations, an exception only to the Armed Forces. We, for declaring rent, are firmly behind all the outside counsellors of the President's Office who have just appeared to us, so-called whisperers. This Sanhedrin has a colossal effect on government decisions, and they say something on the air every day, put something in their pocket, and avoid declarations. And the extreme position is to explain the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the position that we have to put in a bill to ban the Moscow Church, we have to work for the state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u29	Heroic glory! "Deliverance of Ukraine," please. That's nice. You passed it on, didn't you? Please, Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u30	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, today we have begun another parliamentary session, which takes place during a large-scale invasion. The next few months, we need consolidation. We have to go through the budget process, make decisions that will allow us to start real negotiations on our state's accession to the EU, support the Ukrainian Defence Force and strengthen the social protection of our citizens. I would like to remind you that by the end of next week Parliament is due to receive a draft State budget for the following year. As a result of today’s situation, it is clear that it must be a resource for the defense of our nation, but we must also provide for the social problems of Ukrainian society. The effective work of the Fund for the Elimination of the Effects of Armed Aggression needs to be scaled up, no one should be left without a roof over his head, with his apartment destroyed, especially during this presummer period. This year’s more than 60 billion, of which 35 billion have been allocated and funded from the state budget, are not objectively enough to close these urgent problems. I remind you that the direct losses of one housing fund are estimated at nearly $55 billion. In the next budget, there is a need to anticipate an increase in social standards. I would like to remind you that this year the minimum wage has not been raised, but in the following year we have to renew the increase in the wages of our fellow citizens. This also applies to living minimums for different categories and corresponding pensions for millions of older ones. We have no right in war to narrow down social assistance for internally displaced persons. The MP's "Delivery of Ukraine" also insists on extending the time limits of the concept of "child of war" and taking this issue into account, not since 2022, but since 2014. We cannot help one another, but we cannot forget about others, who have suffered for more than nine years. All children of war deserve worthy social protection. The government also needs to stimulate the internal production of building materials by means of budgeting programs. Just ask yourself what is happening today with the power of glass production, bricks, and other building materials, you will be surprised. The nation must be rebuilt by Ukrainian builders and personally by Ukrainian construction materials. I call on fellow MPs in the fourth session to demonstrate the maturity of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, to continue to work to win our people over the aggressor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u31	Thank you. And "Platform for Life and Peace" by Yuri Alexiyovich Pavlenko. We'll keep going to the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u32	Honorable Presidium, Your Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Ukrainian People! The tenth anniversary session of this assembly begins. And in our opinion, the key priorities in our work are primarily to support the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to support the Ukrainian soldier, to provide all the necessary Ukrainian army from armory to BK, to equipment. Secondly, this is support for the Ukrainian economy from a military-industrial complex to a small and medium-sized business. No doubt the task before Parliament, the government and the authorities of all levels is the social protection, the social protection of those categories that most need the support and attention of the state today, which have become a new challenge for the Ukrainian state. They are primarily children who have suffered from war, they are veterans, they are military officers, they are wounded, they are families of the dead. It's these categories that we have to focus our attention as much as possible both in terms of modern legislation and in terms of real aid to each of these categories. This is also emphasized by the President of Ukraine, speaking and determining the priorities of the Ukrainian doctrine on which the state is to focus today. At the same time, unfortunately, we must note that the individual central authorities act contrary to and contrary to the tasks set by the Parliament, which are determined by the President of Ukraine. As I recall, from this rostrum, the president made it clear that every child should grow up in a family. At the same time, the Ministry of Social Policy is now opposed to those tasks. Instead of creating family forms of parenting, instead of creating a real system of support and protection for children who have suffered from war, the Ministry is failing this job, the Ministry is fighting institutions, fighting claims, taking part in conferences instead of doing the key that social policy requires -- helping and protecting. Instead, the Ministry acts on the principle of punishing and controlling. All that their attention is focused on today. Sadly, there is a complete misunderstanding of what the primary level is, where real help begins. And it starts in the community. Regrettably, this inadequacy of the statement and the actual action that is being done today is undoing the very many actions that have been taken both by the Supreme Council and by the President of Ukraine. We demand that Parliament take seriously the actual actions of today's Ministry of Social Policy and their captors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us now consider the following issues of order. The Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups discussed and approved the draft order of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of the Ninth Assembly. According to the part of the first article 21 and part of the first article 22 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine introduced a draft order for the tenth session of the day for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Decree with registration number 9682. At the Conciliation Council, we accepted the proposal to discuss the matter. In accordance with the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is discussed under a reduced procedure. So I invite representatives of the MP factions and groups to sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against. Invite the MPs to the hall, there'll be a vote in eight minutes. Please, "European Solidarity." Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, 32 years old, while the parliament of an independent Ukraine is working, two decrees are being voted at the beginning of the new session: the activities of the Supreme Council and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today we will vote the key to Euro-Integrating the Law on Restoration of Electronic Declaration. And obviously this vote has to be transparent, and voters need to know how the majority faction, in which more than 230 deputies, will support or not maintain the transparency of electronic declarations, as our political team has introduced in its own time. And it's just as interesting to know how the majority faction overturned the vote to declare the President's Office, because there is actually a concentrated key power there today. And that's why we, colleagues, refer to you as saying that the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be transparent. We have registered a decree to explain our activities with you. And we're asking you to put 9677 into the agenda right now -- this is about highlighting the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We demand that we put in order of the day and vote as the immediate UBB Act, registered by the representatives of our faction. 850,000 of our defenders, 850,000, can't get UBB, run, collect papers. This is an absolute disgrace – still in Ukraine, the Ephesus branch of the church is still in operation and the Moscow church ban law is still being blocked. It's insane how much noise there was about the bomb shelters, the mayors of cities were tortured, and today the attack on local self-government in Chernigow, where searches are going on in Lomaks, but the bomb shelter law you don't put in, and you don't put in other important bills if they're offered by the opposition. Therefore, we demand that after the vote, the decision on the matter be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u35	Thank you. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u36	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, the absolute priority of the Supreme Council’s agenda for the ninth call of the tenth session, should be the issue of defence, the provision of every opportunity for the Armed Forces of Ukraine to overcome and destroy the enemy who attacked our country. That's what we have to get out of, that's what's important. Of course, our priority should also be to support those who have suffered this war, which is now in Ukraine, those who are displaced, those who are suffering. Of course, those who lost their loved ones and certainly those who returned were injured. Today we have a variety of support for our business that has not left Ukraine, which today supports everyone who is capable and willing to work in Ukraine alone and who has not gone abroad. We certainly understand all those who have failed and had legal opportunities to go beyond Ukraine, but today those who have stayed and worked are also laying the foundation for our victory along with our glorious military and all those who are now involved in the preparation of the fighting, in preparation for our attack, which, I am absolutely convinced, will end with our victory. It is these priorities that must be ensured during the work of our High Council at its tenth session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u37	Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u38	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. We're in Fatherland thinking that the agenda should have two orientations, two directions. The first is to ensure the security and security of our country now. And the second direction is to build our country after our victory. We think that everything else should be put off schedule. Instead, we have received, by the way, just today this kind of agenda, which has a lot to do with neither the military aggression of the Russian Federation nor the construction and development of an independent, happy Ukraine after our victory. And plus, I want to point out that the order of the day, as usual, is written with a distortion. Those opposition legislative proposals are not always in the order of the day session. Nor do the day - to - day proposals made by opposition committees come into order. In particular, the committee led by the representative of Fatherland has only eight bills in this Talmud. So we think that this document is unbalanced. We believe that this document does not reflect the most urgent needs of the Ukrainians today or after the end of the war, so we will not be able to support it by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u39	Thank you. Are there other factions and groups who would like to speak after one minute? Then let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We will vote. Invite the deputies to the hall. I am voting for the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 9682) on the order of the day of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Please vote. [[13:12:39]] For 279 Decision taken. Order of the day session approved. Show the factions, please. Out of procedure, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, we have registered a decree on the disclosure of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u41	Number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u42	9677. It is very important for the Ukrainians to know how the Supreme Council renews electronic voting, how we vote on a bill that approaches or, on the contrary, blocks our path to the European Union and NATO, it is very important that we return "hours of questions to the government," very important that we be the European Parliament. And, indeed, as a person who is not the first to be convened in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to point out that always the transparency, transparency, democracy of Parliament distinguished us from the "lord" of the Russian Federation. Today I am very sad that you and I are returning Ukraine to Russia, Belarus. Let's not do this, we ask for transparency in the work of Parliament. And what's in our resolve? So that the broadcasts go on the record, not the night of our sessions, but the 18th to 24th hours. The work of committees and factions should be highlighted. I think that's a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u43	I'm betting on the vote on Irina Volodymyrenko's proposal, as she sounded it. Please vote. [[13:14:22]] For 247 Decision taken. We've included in the agenda of the 9677 Registration Order. Do you want to see it now? Ah, commission of the committee. Okay. Sergei Vitaliovich Calchenko, the Enlightenment Order is yours, isn't it? Is it Poturjeva? You don't know. Now we're going to find out if she's listed, which committee she's assigned to, and so on. Okay. We either do it today, or, if we don't, we'll move on to this decision tomorrow. Thank you. It's not signed, is it? Oh, it's not signed. Okay. Then I ask the apparatus to do the signing up quickly and then the appropriate committee to which it will be scheduled will consider it. The procedure is Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u44	Thank you. Colleagues, the day before today was Bill 9559. It's about letting local self-government help our army. Unfortunately, it was taken. I'd like to pick it up, put it in the order of today's meeting or tomorrow, and we finally voted for it. Please support my colleagues so that local self - government will be able to help our army without hindrance.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u45	Now we can only talk about today's session, because tomorrow's meeting will be formed by the Conciliation Council tomorrow morning, finalizing. Another number? 9559-d. I'm putting Mikishi's proposal into the agenda of today's session the above-mentioned bill. Please vote. [[13:16:33]] For 237 Decision taken. The bill was added to the agenda. Does he have a committee? Any conclusions from the committee, Olena Alexiyevno? Is there a committee conclusion on this bill? Okay. Out of procedure - Goncharenko? Yeah, come on. They're all mentioned above. Can I talk to you for a second, Alexei Alexiyovich? 9559d will be after considering the whole jar for today's agenda, so repositioning it is a separate vote, Mr. Mikisha, I'm addressing you. Mr. Mikisha, the bill is now simply added to the agenda and it stands after all of today's drafts. If you want to raise it, it's a separate vote. Is that what you want now? Let's listen to the potter, then we'll move in with you. We've got some personal questions right now. It's only after the personnel questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u46	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko. Dear friends, it's a very important bill 9142. So this is a bill that tells us about the right to demobilize those who served 18 months, directly mobilized by volunteers, is an extremely important topic. Unfortunately, this bill has been in the Supreme Council since March, and it has not been considered. It's very important to bring it up, it's very important to have a discussion on this issue, maybe it'll be a different term, but it's very important for us to figure out that there is a way out. Today, there is no way into the Force of Arms, and that's not right. And we can't get the war on the shoulders of the same people, we don't know how long it's going to last. Oh, my God, there's going to be a victory soon, but maybe a year more, maybe more. And we need to determine when people who have already given up their Fatherland will be able to leave. Please submit this bill to our agenda: 9142.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u47	Are you talking about today's session, Alexei Alexiyovich, or do you even add the agenda to the agenda? Sessions. Okay. I think he's there anyway, you check. Colleagues, let's move on to personnel issues, please. We have the first question. In accordance with article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, paragraph 12, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the decision on the resignation of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. On September 4, 2023, Aleksei Yuriovich Reznikov applied to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for his resignation as Ukraine’s Defence Minister. The National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed the application and the outcome of the consideration by the Ukrainian National Deputies of the Committee and submitted a corresponding draft Decision No. 9679 for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The right materials are given to you. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed on the following procedure for dealing with this issue: a speech by the Ukrainian Defence Minister, up to 10 minutes; a question to the Minister of the People's Deputies, up to 6 minutes (1 minutes to question, 2 minutes to answer); a report from the Special Committee, up to 2 minutes; statements from MPs and groups, up to 16 minutes to make a decision. All right, 35 minutes. I bet on the voting procedure agreed upon by the Conciliation Council. It's a procedural decision, it takes 150 votes. Please vote. [[13:20:25]] For 323 Decision taken. Procedure agreed. The factions. Let's move on to the question. Ukraine’s Defence Minister, Alexei Yuriovich Reznikov, is invited to speak. Up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! 22 months ago, from this rostrum, I published the priorities of my work, and on the basis of them, a programme of actions of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine was set up, and the essence of the programme was to join NATO in a de facto way. 112 days after my appointment, a full - scale Russian invasion began, and since then the Ministry of Defense has been paralleling two related tracks. The first is the Russian invasion and security of the front; the second is reforms to make our army stronger and compatible with the Alliance's armies. As civilian intelligence, we gained the ability during a war that Europe had not seen in 80 years. I'm just going to stop at some of the results of the Defense Department team. These results, especially in the international direction, are part of the achievements of a large team led by President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine. Success has been assured by the joint efforts of the government, the Office of the President, the Supreme Council, our diplomats, activists, diasporas and, above all, our warriors, who have impressed the world with their bravery and skill. After February 24, the sharpest problem we had to solve was weapons. According to the General Staff, the defence force would then have 2 to 2.5 months of intense fighting, and then our army would have ended physically. We gained everything that was possible and impossible. In 18 months for the defence forces, we purchased, manufactured and acquired more than 7 million artillery shells, mines, posters for tanks and LFDDs; over 4.5 thousand artillery systems and mortars; about 3.5 thousand systems protecting our sky, from PZRK to Patriot; over 6.5,000 armoured weapons, armoured weapons and tanks; over 2,000 trucks, countless firearms, radar, engineering, various types of missiles, helicopters, evacuation vehicles and much more. More than 70,000 Ukrainian soldiers were trained abroad. Less than two years ago, we were refused Stinger. Now our pilots, engineers, technicians are taking over modern Western aircraft and preparing to take over the F-16, which is going to be Ukrainian F-16. The result is hard to come by, for in 1991 it would be nothing compared to anything. Today, Ukraine has received physical or military aid commitments worth about $100 billion. Every time I was talking about a new weapon, I always heard the same phrase: Impossible. We fought for the tanks for a year. For the cassette ammunition from the official call for delivery, nine months. During the cadences, my team and I carried out more than 160 official international actions, not counting countless informal conversations, meetings, presentations to the audience. From the point of view of security at the beginning, there was a terrible deficit of everything. Volunteers, ordinary citizens, and business have been very helpful. And they are very grateful for that. In six months, not only did we provide an army, but we also created a reserve of 200,000 armoured vests, more than 120,000 helmets, set up over 1.2 million winter kits, two and a half million summer helmets, and much more. In short, we survived as a nation and a nation. And we started to have a plan for our victory, which is what we're going to do next. International direction. We've got Ramstein's work set up. The world has seen nothing like it since the Anti - Hitler coalition. A tank coalition that Abrams will soon join. The air coalition, the sea coalition, the PPO and PRO family, the artillery family, the MLRS, the long-range missiles in which we expect US and German replenishment soon. A coalition of shells and a future IT coalition. These are all practical tools that bring our victory closer to you. We have taken an interest in Ukraine in those countries that have historically not been interested in military cooperation with us, from Australia to the Netherlands, from Norway to Portugal. We've relaunched our work with NATO. A new system is being built in the form of the NATO-Ukrainian Council. I have approved a plan of action by the Ministry of Defence and the Ukrainian Armed Forces to implement the Vilnius summit decision as preparations for the Washington summit. In the heart of cooperation, it's compatibility. The concept of a map of compatibility we're counting on to get this fall. In the 287 NATO standards that you and I have already implemented, another 200 will be added by the end of the year. Some 300 new weapons and equipment have been adopted for weapons, with the left side of which is western weapons. A powerful contractual base has been built with NATO and the EU and in defence cooperation and information exchange and OPC. We don't have military agreements with just two countries, Iceland and Luxembourg, with which we are already working in this format. We've brought up the new level of NSPO's work, NATO's support and supply agency. In order to implement the NATO programme that we agreed on with the NSPO, the National Security Procurement Survey of Ukraine will be conducted to build an effective and transparent system. We have awakened security mechanisms in the European Union. The EU is now deciding to transfer 1 million 155-millimeter missiles to Ukraine and training tens of thousands of our fighters. Beyond all this, the new philosophy of defensive diplomacy, based on the political leadership of the President of Ukraine, has allowed many established patterns to be overcome. And we're not asking, we're not just recipients, we're donors of European security, we're the shield of Europe and east, the cornerstone of the new European security architecture. Inside direction. There is a strong foundation for the development of Ukrainian OPC. The approach to the adoption of new weapons and technology has been changed, and the time of adoption of OTT has been reduced from 2 years to 3.5 weeks. A Minobron accelerator has been created, which operates bureaucratic webs by developers and manufacturers. They're serialized with SAU 155 millimeters, artillery shells, mines, shells for tanks, and most of it for the first time. More than 30 models of Ukrainian drones have been used, and production has increased more than 100 times and is increasing. The stake on Ukrainian drones was and is a principled position. Ukraine can be the world leader in this segment. So I decided to set up a center of competence in robotic platforms. One day we'll tell you about the rocket program and the AO program. But what I'm saying is that at the end of the 22nd year, funding for the Neptune complex was doubled, and the result was the best sensed by the Moscow cruiser. Contracts have been made that have opened the way for cooperation with companies like Bayraktar, BAE Systems, Rheinmetall, Saab, Thales, Nexter, etc. Armed with an automated system of strategic-level military management. A series of situational awareness systems have been adopted. The logistic program LOGFAS used by NATO countries has been expanded to the level of the brigade. The cow program has been implemented. The needs of the Defense Force are immediately seen by our allies. The Joint Decision of the Defence Minister, the Head of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, confirmed the transition to SAP software is a new quality of planning and management of defence resources. We started with logistics and medicine, and then we have to move staff, finance and some other blocks to SAP. Not all NATO countries have reached the level at which you and I are now. The government approved the concept of reforming military education according to NATO principles and standards. Finally, two service agencies have been set up to implement new army security standards: the weapons agency is successfully operating, and the resource agency is expected to show results in October. The digitization of military accounts, the reform of TTC and SP is completed, and changes will take months. The process of getting an OCD is simplified by a government decision to one document. The reform of the VLC system is a complex issue, but we are moving forward. In times of war, and on that scale, things weren't perfect, and there were mistakes, and I realize them. Some moments I underestimated, for example, that the Kremlin would start firing rockets at peaceful cities, so the strengthening of PPO and AO was perceived as a personal challenge. The most painful moment is the loss, their awareness, and their pride in the exceptional resilience of our people has moved us not to stop at the most difficult moments. To win, in addition to securing the front, a new round of tasks needs to be created, an image of the Ukrainian army of the future – Future Force Concept, to incorporate partners' resources through the long-term support programmes put into their budgets – these are real security assurances. In this regard, much has been done, primarily by reviewing the ability of the Defence Force, which lasted almost a year, to rely on and speak to partners in one language. Convinced, the creation of a long - term international aid programme should be a top priority for the following year. If we evaluate the situation essentially, the integration of Ukraine into NATO de facto took place, an important stage is over. In this regard, I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine for my resignation. Thank you to the President of Ukraine for his trust, support and ability to serve his country in the darkest times. Thank you to government colleagues and the Ukrainian Parliament for their teamwork. Thank you to everyone and everyone who defends Ukraine today on the battlefield. It's an eternal memory for those who gave their most precious lives, so that there will be a future in Ukraine. Praise our warriors! Glory to Ukraine! I have the honour.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u49	Thank you, Alexy Yuriovich. Stay in the rostrum. Asking the minister to sign up for a question from the Ukrainian National Deputies. The word, the refusal. It'll come from the place. Please, European Solidarity, Grandmaster Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u51	Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u52	Alexi Yuriovich, 9th of April last year you were appointed deputy Dennis Sharapov. After that, a few hundred contracts were concluded with a percentage prepayment for the supply of different types of weapons, which we will not detail. The amount of the contracts was huge, but as a result, only a fraction of the weapons were installed, but the money was gone. Dennis Sharapov was responsible and is responsible for the purchase. I have a question. Why not take steps to ensure that the money outflows that resulted in a huge receivable that is now estimated at almost a billion dollars? Why not use mechanisms, such as letters of credit, and all possible measures have been taken to ensure that Ukraine loses a huge amount of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u53	Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u54	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr, for asking. At the beginning of the first weeks and months, we had to reduce some of the fees, because we had to carry weapons and not just weapons. Now we've restored both the fees and the collective reviews of the purchases. But what I want to tell you today is that so-called problematic receivables, which are in the courts or in the pretentious order, 2.7 percent of all financial turnover in Ukraine. So we either have everything secured in the courts, or fines are already paid, or supplies are being made available to all suppliers. I can just give you an example of a well-known supplier of the Pentagon who was six months late to supply us with missiles, because the problem was in third countries with licenses, transits and so on. They paid a fine of one and a half million dollars and continued their supply. So we don't have drama, we don't have all the work receivables, I repeat, the problem is 2.7 percent, some of which, by the way, some of the debts that I have inherited from previous periods. That's why there's no drama, everything's under control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u55	Please, Dmitri's Oksana Alexandrovna, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u56	Thank you. Please pass the word to Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u57	Clever Dmitry Alexanderovich, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u58	Thank you. Alexi Juryovich, in fact, has had a great deal of corruption in the past year associated with the Ministry of Defence, a lot of press investigations involving the Ministry of Defence. And I realize that the manager can't always take full responsibility for all his subjects. Questions have already been asked about your deputies. Questions were asked about the purchase of shells and mines abroad that did not come, but they continued to order new ones and sign new contracts once and for all, counting money. Another extreme scandal involving drones and jackets. Perhaps today we should not consider your resignation, but finally carry out a thorough audit of the Ministry of Defense on all the scandals that unfortunately today are, and call those responsible to account, criminal responsibility under the existing legislation, or perhaps even its reinforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u59	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u60	Mr. Dmitri, the law enforcement agencies of all your known levels are doing tests, questioning the Defense Department personnel, taking out documents, analyzing. And I want to let you know that what you call scandalous, I call resonance messages, not confirmed as facts, are fairy tales that have been blown up on purpose. There are no confirmations, no criminal cases on issues that have become the subject of so - called resonance investigations. But that doesn't mean that I didn't realize when I was in a position to inherit a structure that had evolved for 30 years as it did, and that I was entering an august stable, I realized, and, of course, it's not that easy to reform during the open flood. So I say, there are mistakes, there are different personnel decisions, and I want success, and I will support any new minister that this room will support, and I promised him to do it 24 times 7, using my experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u61	Please, Viátrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u63	Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u64	Thank you. Then I have two questions, maybe three, based on what you just answered. Mr. Minister, first of all, you say there's nothing to do. What is your deputy doing at SZO? What do several representatives of the Ministry of Health do in the WHO? They're under arrest. They're not arrested in any way? If all is well, then why are you going? I don't understand then. Because I've heard that there's no business at all, and everything's fine. And a very important question. You've said a lot about guns, diplomacy is very necessary. But as far as I'm concerned, the main thing is people and hundreds of thousands of people who directly serve the army. And you're saying today that we've simplified the UCD to one reference. But this one testimonial is also difficult to obtain. And why only on the eighteenth month? Hundreds of thousands of people still haven't been granted UCD status in months. Why did it turn out that after the 30th strike that you supported, unfortunately, they got 400 dollars, and they were limitedly viable after the injury?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u65	Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u66	Mr. Alexi, very briefly. I am convinced that all members of Parliament believe in the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that there is an innocentness principle, only by its judgment can a person be found guilty. I can give a lot of examples of people being arrested, suspected, and then found to be heroes. May I remind you of General Marchenko's case or General Nazarov's case? So many. So let us not rush to conclude. When there is a verdict, you will say that someone is guilty of a crime. I'll have an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u67	Thank you, Alexy Yuriovich. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no. No! No! Arthur, it's time. Arthur Volodymyrovich, time is up a long time ago. No, time's up, I'm sorry. Thank you, Alexy Yuriovich. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence, and Intelligence, Alexander Mihajlovich Zawidnevich, is invited to speak for the report. Please. For the report, please. I'm asking the camera to figure out the color of the digits on the screen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u68	Congratulations, dear colleagues. At the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee at its meeting on September 4, 2023, reviewed the statement by Ukrainian Defence Minister Reznikowa Alexija Yuriovich on his resignation from office. According to the outcome of the discussion, according to article 85, part 12, paragraph 12, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the national deputies of Ukraine made decisions. First. Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept the resignation of Reznikov Aleksija Yuriovich as Ukraine’s Defence Minister. The other one. Suggest to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, during the plenary session, that the Minister of Defence of Ukraine Resnikov Aleksija Juriovich be presented with a report within 10 minutes. Period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u69	Let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Please, Voice, Ustinova. Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u70	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. At first, I would like to ask all the walkers who stand by the minister to listen to the statements of the last factions in office. Thank you. I understand very well the height of tension, the degree of tension in society, especially in the last six months, which has sparked scandals in Ukraine and abroad. At some point, there was a partner’s position, and there was an inner struggle. But, nevertheless, I think that Mr. Alexi, when he was appointed after the completely failed minister of Taran, who continues to fail as an ambassador to Slovenia, received an inheritance of a 30-year-old mere apricot system which, in principle, was difficult for one person to raise and reform. And those who have a bearing on the public service or on the high office know very well about the political office, that the Ministry first or any other body is not always about one person, but about the team. Since the team is still in place, today we say thank you or say good-bye to Mr. Minister, I would also like to thank you, knowing how much and how different in a good sense that word has been communication, particularly, or firstly, with the military, with partners, how much everything has been done. And as a legacy, especially the first of the questions that I personally asked for, the breakup of the Army Volunteer monopoly. That was the offer and the reaction that was received very quickly, back in December of the 21st year. No one can ever tell what the CDC should be for the minister's effectiveness in the state of war. That is why we thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u71	Thank you. "To the future," Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Dear Alexi Yuriovich! In spite of criticism, today's hall holds the Secretary of Defense of the warring country with applause, that's a lot to say. I think that despite some of the far-off problems that we've had in Parliament and remain with the communication role with the Cabinet of Ministers, which we rarely see in the session hall, we've forgotten what the "hour of the government" is, we have the idea on the Conciliation Council to return this idea of "hours of government," and so on, I can't address this question to the Minister of Defense, with whom there was constant communication, open communication. And that's a lot to talk about. I think that the Secretary of Defense, who has been in office all 559 days of war, is a lot to talk about. In other warring countries, including the totalitarian countries that fought, defence ministers changed in different ways. Can the Minister of Defense be reproached? Of course we can, we're an open country, we're a democratic society. And that's what our warriors are fighting for on the front and on the front. How hard the country was, they know a lot, and they can share a lot of us here in the hall. It may be shared with the Supreme Commander, who can divide any soldier who is ahead of the line, especially the Secretary of Defense, who has been on a difficult path, including the difficult negotiation process in the early days of the war. I think we should thank Defence Minister Alexi Yuriovich Resnikov today for the difficult steps he has taken to strengthen the country's security, for the dialogue he has had with our international partners. And I believe that his political career does not end there. He must continue to work on the exercise of his sovereignty, sharing the experience he gained to protect his national sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u73	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Please, "Serve of the People," Michael Galina Olegovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u74	Please give the word to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u75	Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u76	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! Dear citizens of Ukraine! What are we looking at today? We are today discussing the resignation of a defence minister who, for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, was the Minister of Defence of the warring country, the Minister of Defence of the country to which he had attacked, unprovoked aggression and waged a terrorist war, one of the most resourceful in terms of the human potential and economic capabilities of a country that stood second in the world by military power, by military power. Is there a question for the Ministry of Defense, for the Ministry of Defense, for the minister's activities? Of course they are. Because in the context of the war, under the conditions of force majeure, in the conditions of the unpredictability of Ukraine's future in the first days of the war, the Defense Minister's team has done everything possible and very often impossible to ensure that the Armed Forces of Ukraine, whose numbers have increased in short compared to the military situation, are provided with both clothing and security systems and weapons and everything else. Is it possible to make mistakes under such extraordinary conditions in the ministry, the minister, and his team? Of course, mistakes are inevitable in the face of unforeseeable events that Ukraine has experienced. Is it the minister's fault? Of course, the minister’s fault is too. Because he probably couldn't always respond adequately to the media signals, the scandals we all have. But we need to remember that Russia is fighting a hybrid war against us. The information ingredient, and it was Russia that played and provoked the scandals very often. But thanks to the personal efforts of the minister of Ukraine, Ukraine has received rockets, Ukraine has received tanks, Ukraine has received reactive fire systems, and thanks to the President’s efforts, including the Minister of Defense, Ukraine has survived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u77	Thank you. "Trust," Coon. Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u78	Of course, at the time of that great challenge, when the overwhelming army wants to take over our land, cooperation is important, unity is important both to the ministries, to the public authorities, and, most importantly, to the people who are trampling on this victory for their lives. And that's why today we want to mention from this rostrum the people that the Ministry is actually working for -- our brave soldiers, our soldiers of the various battle brigades: the 80s, the 65s, the 45s, the 63s, the 103s, especially the 125th Brigade. And today, from this rostrum, I want to welcome the 20th anniversary of the creation of the legendary, royal 24th Brigade, bold and legendary. It's about the soldiers of the 24th individual mechanized brigade, who have been defending our land with a strong shield since the beginning of the war for 10 years. Of course, it is an eternal memory of those queens who gave their lives. Both glory and courage and low yield to those who still work courageously and to those who run them are the courageous leaders of the legendary Combi, Alexander Pauluk, Anatoly Shevchenk. Eternal glory, the memory of the legendary Valery Goodze. Of course, the glory of Sergey Podupalski, the Kombriga Romano Mamavka, and the young combustible, who is already the Hero of Ukraine to John Golishevsky. Praise be to all the warriors who win us! Glory.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u79	Heroic glory! Fatherland, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Minister! Maybe this is the hardest speech from this rostrum, especially for me, because Alexy Reznikov is the person who has put herself in the history of Ukraine who has shown himself to be serious enough in various areas of activity, and what we are now looking at, in my opinion, is the answer not to who we have, but what the Ministry of Defence is, in fact. This is a very difficult performance because we understand very well that when Russia first started in the 14th year, and I think no one would deny it, it attacked Crimea, followed by Donbas, it was clear that the country needed not to build nets on the border with Russia, but to build minefields, defense buildings and protect the country throughout the perimeter. What we're analyzing today is just one episode, perhaps the most difficult one in the country's life. And that's why what we have today in the Ministry of Defense, in my opinion, should be a lesson for everyone for the future. It has become a tradition to leave the envelopes for those who go, for those who come. But my advice, Mr. Secretary, is not to leave in peace all the things that have been declared scandalous. In my opinion, each of these episodes should be completed and completed. My advice is that the system can't beat even the best organizers if you haven't reformed the system. That's the advice, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u81	Thank you. "Platform for Life and Peace", Yuri Alexiovich Pavlenko. We'll take another Vytatrowich, and then we'll vote. Invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u82	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, we will not be giving an evaluation of the work of Defence Minister Alexi Reznikov from this rostrum today. Convinced, history will give him a proper assessment, and I hope that this evaluation will be positive. Indeed, the work of the Ministry of Defence, especially in the last 559 days, has been extremely difficult in the face of Russia’s widespread war against Ukraine, in conditions where much has to be done from scratch, in the process of making quick decisions. Many things have been accomplished by the ministry and the minister in office, many, unfortunately, remain unresolved. Undoubtedly, the most resonant is the question of possible corruption, the issue of public procurement in the military. And they no doubt need further settlement. And here is the responsibility of both the government and parliament, both to simplify these purchases, not from the point of view of the corruptioner's accessibility to them, but from the point of view of the rapid provision of the Ukrainian Armed Forces with the necessary armor, the necessary BK, the necessary equipment and its own form, how to make import arrangements when what can be done and produced in Ukraine needs to be produced in Ukraine, thereby supporting the national economy. The question of price equity. It is extremely relevant to society today. Of course, the protection and support of the soldier, starting with rehabilitation, the provision of UCD and many other problems, which unfortunately are not solved by the State today in relation to the soldier. I am confident that Minister Alexei Reznikov will be able to provide professional answers to these questions and a new minister in his future activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u83	"European Solidarity." Which one of you? Fedina? Sofia Romanovno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u84	I've got a majority representative standing in front of me who has forgotten that the war started in February 14th, not in the 22nd, as he announces in this room the next day. And to Mr. Reznik in particular was Minister of Defense of the War State of Poltorak, who had suffered effective reforms, strengthened the army and provided it properly. But I would like to ask the minister after such a beautiful, smooth report: What was he doing 112 days before the invasion? He was already a minister. And I remind you, on January 28, 22nd, of this bed of government, he said it wasn't an invasion, but the panic in our head and the money in our army was enough. And it blocked the allocation of 50 billion dollars for the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. On February 22, 22nd, on television, Mr. Reznikov spoke of the absence of a strike group in the north, including Belarus, forgetting that at the same time we had a minister of defense of Belarus who was very good at studying in Ukraine. So I have to say that all these eggs of 17, jackets, supply locks, drone production and BPLA are just flowers compared to criminal, cynical and sudden non-invasion preparations when, in fact, everything was done so that Ukraine wouldn't survive. And I would like to remind you that it is not only the political responsibility of this minister and his entire team that worked with him that rewarded him, but it is a criminal responsibility – article 11 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on criminal negligence. And corruption scandals. Today, the President of Lithuania has announced that corruption is halting arms transfers to Ukraine. So get rid of the thefts at the Ministry of Defense, too many of them!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u85	Let's go to the vote, dear fellows. Please take your seats. In accordance with article 85, part 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Decree (with registration number 9679) on the resignation of the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Alexija Yuriovich Reznikov. Please vote. The members of the profile committee are on the run. [[13:57:09]] For 327 Decision taken. Actor's been approved. [[Applause]] The factions. Let's move on to the next item on the agenda. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, and with the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is the release from office of the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. On September 4, 23rd, according to the statutes of law, Rustem Enverovich Umerov submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application asking to be released from office. The Special Committee on Economic Development reviewed the application and, as a result of the consideration of the National Deputies of Ukraine, the members of the Committee have submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a corresponding draft Decision No. 9678, the materials have been provided to you. At the Conciliation Council, we agreed to discuss this issue in a simplified procedure with a statement of up to 7 minutes to give to the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine and his answers to questions from national deputies within 6 minutes. I would like to propose to the vote that this is the procedure for consideration of the matter. It's a procedural decision, 150 votes. Please vote. [[13:58:55]] For 325 Decision taken. The procedure has been approved. Let's move on to the question. The Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Rustem Enverovich Umerov, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u86	Good day to you all, colleagues. It's good to see you all. Whenever you approach a microphone in the Supreme Council, you feel that something is starting again. Dear colleagues, a year ago the Supreme Council of Ukraine appointed me as Head of the Fund of the State of Ukraine. For the first time in Ukrainian history, the fund operates independently and is not just a window for selling and renting property; it is the main manager of state ownership. We've almost destroyed the political impact on the foundation's work, especially through your approved colleague, the 8250 Fund Structure Act. The head of the fund now appoints management on his own, without any agreement with the influence groups. We've improved the structure of the foundation, become the only legal entity without 12 different centers in the regions that were the fertilizers of corruption. A new procedure has been introduced for all fund candidates and business management. One of the key points is that all candidates have to be tested in law enforcement, anti-corruption and other bodies. Over the past year, the fund has consolidated more than 65 percent of all government assets in the country. Of the 3,600 businesses in Ukraine in general, more than 2,300 are now in charge of the fund. This is a precedent in the history of Ukraine. 82 percent of these 2,300 companies we have actually completed, we have sent over 1,200 enterprises into liquidation (bankruptcy). The portion remains in temporarily occupied areas. Thank you, colleagues, for the adoption of the Law on the Characteristics of Stopping Businesses. Another 18 percent of the businesses were privatized. We're active, we do auctions every day. A further 1,200 companies from 72 authorities remain unsurpassed. We've already had a meeting with the Prime Minister, we're working with the government on transferring them to the fund. The property of a trade union. 50 sanatoriums, 30 hotels, a rest base, 20 other facilities are to become an ecosystem of rehabilitation programs for all war victims. Colleagues, please support Bill 6420 as soon as possible. Mayno Dosaaf. Thousands of objects, we are working on a return to the state of this Soviet survival. 1 percent of enterprises, strategic assets that we don't privatize, will go sovereignly to the fund. These assets have to become leaders and drivers of the Ukrainian economy. The sovereign fund is the main product that the foundation team is working on. International advisors from the world's sovereign Grand Four Foundations, lawyers, international environmental experts, met with nearly 20 sovereign funds from the United States, Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa. The fund's strategy, the fund law and the implementation plan are now ready. Colleagues, today it's up to you how quickly we're going to start the fund. The task of the sovereign fund is to develop a strategy not only for individual enterprises but for the whole sector. This fund will now invest in the development of these industries and enterprises to restore our economy. Another important product and an important common victory is the land bank. Perhaps thanks, in particular, to the approval of you, a colleague, of Law 7588 on improving the efficiency of the use of lands. This is a revolutionary step that kills ten-year corruption schemes with landslides, which are several hundred thousand lands and several billion dollars a year in the budget. Finally, Ukrainian and international businesses will be able to rent land through ProZorro, online auctions, ProZorro. Sales. Our team is already finishing all the preparations and with the entry into force of the law in January of the 24th year, we will announce the first auctions. Privatization. I'll explain by the numbers. Nearly 400 entrepreneurs bought neglected buildings in the country each year, most of them administrative facilities, unfinished construction facilities, non-workable factories, warehouses, garages, and so on. 73 percent of these objects cost up to a million dollars, or small business. Administrations or warehouses buy entrepreneurs forced from temporarily occupied territories or those who have lost their business because of Russian aggression. The evidence of this is an unprecedented, doubling the average number of entrepreneurs per object, 5 participants, previously 2 and 3. The Ukrainian business actively buys into the state to create a new one from the old. The result of the year — the economic effect of privatization amounted to 5.2 billion dollars. That's 3.8 billion in the sales budget, that's the record of the last ten years, 732 million in debt to employees and the budget, and 667 million in VAT. All this money goes to support the defense and the defense of our country. Renta. Over half a billion dollars in budget. Monthly rental income rose from 21 million dollars in July 2022 to 70 million dollars in July 2023, more than three times. 612 thousand square meters of real estate are devoted to the deployment of defense forces. Score. The Foundation developed a methodology for assessing the damage caused by business through Russian aggression. Before that, there were no general rules for determining losses. This is important because it will help Ukrainian businesses prepare quality lawsuits in international courts against Russia. In addition, the Fund’s team, together with Minenergo, developed a methodology for assessing the damage to energy companies from RF aggression. Confiscated assets. We're renewing the demand for justice. After each project, we work together with the SBU, NABU, GPU, to privatize the first objects: Ocean Plaza, Demurinsky GZK, Shelkova’s assets. What are the plans by the end of the year? Confiscated property of Russians, many working together with the government, O.P., Minust, GPU. In the fall, it is a great privatisation – OHHK, OPP, Centrnergo, in October, the launch of the sovereign fund, in January of the following year, the land bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u87	Thank you, Rustem Enverovich. Please sign up for the head of the holding fund. Out of the way. Please, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u88	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u89	Coltunovich, please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u90	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear reporter. You can see me, can't you? I would like to continue with you our discussion that we started with you yesterday at the Committee on Economic Development. The language applies primarily to government property management, which is one of the main functions of the State Property Fund. And don't you think that something is an illusion of the success of the State Property Fund in the current year, given the fact that 82 percent of enterprises are profitable and are actually at a liquidation stage. I would like to continue this discussion with you yesterday anyway, so that you can give a more complete answer about the effectiveness of the State Property Fund in the current year, maybe you have absolute numbers or even if this pied weight when you went in, how many of them there were and how many now. Then you and I would understand how well the State Property Fund worked. Because 82 percent is, unfortunately, a very bad number, although we understand that there is a certain number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u91	Thank you. First of all, the state didn't have any understanding of what was in the state. Secondly, there was no understanding of how many businesses, where they are, what legal documents they have, what technical documents they have, what economics they have, where they are, where the directors of these enterprises are. So together, what was passed on by Kabmin to the Fund was basically audited. We did this audit, and the audit showed that 82 percent of enterprises don't exist, they only exist on paper. This is the result of a fund just to analyze. It took enough time to analyze this. You and I have passed through the Law on the Disposal and Cessation of Enterprises. Why? Because for many years, these companies, when they existed on paper, were processed, and they were working in mysterious schemes. We stopped it. So and through open auctions, we are now proposing through the open auction mechanism that they be sold after the technical audit, the legal, the financial, they will also be sold through auctions. So it's privatization, but it's another mechanism for winding down and shutting down businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u92	Please, Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u93	Rustem-ga knows that we have the most difficult question asked by Vladimir Tsabal, so please give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u94	Please, Vladimir-aga. The cabal, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u95	Dear Rustem Enverovich, it's probably one of the few cases where our faction doesn't regret the vote when we supported you a year ago. During this year, this is a small period, but much has been done: privatization has been restarted, the creation of a land bank has been launched so that there will be no corruption on the land of the Academy of Sciences. Finally, the process of consolidating all state-owned enterprises has been launched so that we, as a state, can understand what we are selling and what national champions we are leaving behind. No previous head of the holding fund was able to do that. And it's also important that we have finally moved the business liquidation process from a dead point of view, as we know before, we had a lot of these businesses, and they ate a lot of government money. That is why we can thank you. There's really no questions. We support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u97	Please. Oh, no question, okay. "European Solidarity", Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u98	And we have a question, he'll be asked by Mikola Knieżicky. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u99	Mikola Kyazitsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear Mr. Umerov, the question is. In the last Law on the Fund that we discussed and voted on, part of the authority of the ARMA was transferred to the Maintenance Fund. Or you could leave Mrs. Radin and listen to me at this point. Yes, I would be very grateful. Yeah, part of the authority was transferred to the State Property Fund. Do you see the relevance of the existence of these essentially parallel structures now? Why should we thank you, while you were in charge of the fund, for the corruption of many claims and abuses? There were no such abuses. But why are we duplicating this job now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u101	Thank you for asking. In general, the foundation prepared a policy of state ownership, which I planned to transfer to the committee earlier this month. In the new state - of - the - art policy, it was suggested that there should be commercial objects, non - commercial objects, banks, and defence objects. For the future, the future Statehood Law is very clearly prescribed, it is for the future, and it will be transferred to the fund in the coming weeks. As for the other thing that has been passed down to this time. I think the institutional capacity is there right now, it's working, everyone's working for their mandates, working vertically. We have four mandates. The first is privatization. Not everyone knows that worldview is one of the directions. The second direction is management of government assets. So far it's called corporate rights management, and sometimes it wasn't clear what a resource is, what an asset is, how to manage, how to assign. Now we understand all of this in the foundation, and I don't think it's a big risk. I'll tell you more about duplicating. If the Supreme Council and the Cabinet decide that the only institution to manage government assets should be the fund, I think that's appropriate, then you'll make a decision and hand over these assets that are temporarily in the ARMA, in custody, to the Holding Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u102	Thank you. And the last question is, if you can ask him. Dmitri's Oksana Alexandrovna, please, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u104	What? I've got Dmitri's.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u105	I'll be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u106	All right, sorry, red. Well, you wanted it to glow. Let Reasonable Ask a Question for a Minute and a Moderate Minute Answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u107	Thank you. And according to the Rules he has two, Alexander Sergiyovich. Rustem Enverovich, you've really done a lot in this position to you. You really didn't get into any corruption scandal. Do you understand where you plan to go, and what will you have to do there, and what will you have to scratch? Sorry about the slang. Is it worth it? Perhaps it is better to remain in the position that is now, to continue this important course? Because you were able to find a common language in your work with both the MPs and with the internationals and with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Is it worth it, therefore, to resign from this position and become a minister of defense, realizing that it will be very difficult for you to hold back the negative and all the corruption scandals that today have to do with this ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u108	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u109	I'd like to do it again. Thank you for asking. First. Math. 82 percent of businesses, we passed the law, we sent through the procedure, it's the same privatization, to be eliminated. 13 percent is a large privatisation and low privatization, 4 percent is a land bank and 1 percent is a sovereign fund. So all the tasks that Kabmin gave me, I did. That's why I'm here, and I'm saying that I've prepared this -- both the sovereign fund and the land bank -- so I'm now in charge of the sovereign fund. If the Supreme Council votes tomorrow and gives such an opportunity to work in the Ministry of Defence, I will have the honour.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u110	Thank you. Thank you, Rustem Enverovich. Time's up. Dear colleagues, the head of the Committee on Economic Development, Dmitry Andriyovich Nataluha, is invited to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u111	Thank you, colleagues. The review committee, under section 12, paragraph 12, of the first article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Umerov Rustem Enverovich be released from office as Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine. And I would like to point out from myself that such a recommendation and such a release on our own terms, in our new history, is something special. Because not all the heads of the Holding Foundation went from the Holding Fund to their feet or at their own request. And here I would like to actually applaud Rustem Enverovich for putting up with this tension. [[Applause]] I would like to point out that it was a year of constructive work, of course, a year of productive work. And to me, as a person who clearly understands that Rustem Enverovich has an understanding of strategic enterprises, state-owned enterprises and enterprises that, even today, under state rule, are capable of producing competitive high-quality production, I would like to wish only one thing: no matter where life or this hall leaves you to the next ministerial office, I would very much like you to pay special attention in the context of this position to the very competitive participation of state-owned enterprises and the state-owned industry in providing defence forces. I'm talking about import, I'm talking about supporting a national producer, I'm talking about you as a person who understands what kind of enterprise produces that, you could still use that information to support the development of the national economy, to strengthen the real sector, to strengthen Ukrainian industrial power. It's my only wish. And thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u112	Thank you. Two for, two for, please sign in. Please, Voice, Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u113	Please give my word to my colleague Jaroslav Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u114	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u115	Respectful colleagues may not have another government body that concentrates on the number of not-so-reforming interests such as the State Property Fund. 1200 businesses that have always been the source of political corruption and corruption. And it must be remarkable that there was no corruption scandal in the year that Mr. Rustem Umerov presided over the head of the Holding Foundation. I don't remember any head of any COWW that came to us and for a year passed 3 laws that changed the fundamental structure of their own department, including where this vendetta lost influence but achieved social interests. And Rustem did it. I am very sorry that our country is losing such an effective Head of the State Property Fund. I would very much like Rustem to prove what he started. Including the sovereign fund, which has been discussed for decades but has never been made. But there's a war in the country. And the country needs a new secretary of defense. And if I can say three things about Rustem, they'll be very simple. It's one of the best negotiators in our country, it's one of the best hosts, and we've seen the results of the Fund, and the third, most important, it's a person who appreciates his reputation more than anything. And I'm sure, as in the Fund, at the Ministry of Defense, Rustem will confirm this reputation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u116	Thank you. Cuba's Stepan Ivanovich, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u117	Mr. Chairman, please give the floor to Mikola to the Prince. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u118	Mikola Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u119	Thank you. You know, we, "European solidarity," as the opposition faction, have never voted for those candidates from the government that the majority proposed. We didn't vote this time, but we watched this experiment carefully and sympathetically, because this was an example of the opposition's representative (not our faction, but the opposition's representative) being appointed to the government office. We, of course, sympathized with Mr. Umerova also because he is a representative of the Crimean Tatar people, and it is important for us to have representatives of the Crimean Tatar people present in our government. A colleague faithfully said that we had not seen any corruption scandals. We all saw that Rustem was trying to reform the Fund, and in general, it worked out, despite the fact that the factions of our faction had just as many claims to it. Because you can't reform one institution in an inefficient government where the counter-aggressor system doesn't work and where everything is run from one office. Even if you are an angel, even if you are a representative of the opposition. But Mr. Umerov has done a lot. What we're going through right now, he's leaving. When we voted in favour of the Maintenance Fund Act, we may have been wrong, but we voted with the expectation of Mr. Umerov’s management experience. Who will lead the Fund now? If this reformed law is again used by people who, behind the bells from the upper offices, use it to decommission the land, will start to assign substitutes uncontrollably, because there is a plus, but there is also a minus when Parliament has no control over what is happening in the Fund, then we will conclude whether we have done the right thing, then by supporting Mr. Umerova's initiatives or not. And to Mr. Umerov, who is taking pictures right now, I wanted to turn around and ask him not to take responsibility for what he started doing there. Because you have to go on and prove it to the end, because it was our trust, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u120	Fatherland, Kabachenko. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u121	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In fact, as with the Ministry of Defence, the issue of the State Property Fund is a completely ideological question that is not always correlated with the person who heads the institution. Here the honourable lord of the committee of the majority said that not everyone went out with their feet. So what I want to remind you is that two of those that were put forward with their feet, let's say, were appointed by you from this fund. It is your majority who have appointed these people, who are now being sought around the world by law enforcement agencies. So, rather than boast about one person, remember all those whom you have appointed. But the question is different. In fact, it seemed to me that war should have opened my eyes to everyone on completely obvious simple and understandable things. The first thing is the state's impact on the economy. It is important to understand clearly in which sectors the state must leave behind decisive control, especially in those sectors that provide for the welfare of citizens. This is about the oil and gas sector, about energy, about other industries. Do we not remember the terrible events of the winter last year when the power was completely cut because of Russian shelling? I thought that was enough to change the government's policy, the State Property Fund, but no, once again we're all being sent to privatization. There's no market during the war, there's no real market during the war. the real price of objects. It is clear that it is not possible to sell objects at a real market price, and instead the State Property Fund should manage government property rather than embezzle, not sell state property. But the general policy is completely different, because whatever the head of the fund is not assigned, he's unfortunately going to pursue this wrong policy. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u122	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, Platform for Life and Peace. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, our group will certainly support Mr. Umerov's resignation. He's had a lot of positive results, they're not denied, this is about institutional or institutional reform of the State Property Fund. It's really a complex structure, it's not just a central department with regional divisions, it's also 2,000, 368 entities of economic activity that were actually in an extremely difficult state. And so it's very important that when we vote today on this resignation application, we get a new person who will continue as much as possible the same policy as he will solve the issues he is. Next. The second moment that's very important, which we're having today, and we've started, and I want to continue it now. 82 percent of enterprises of 2,000,368 are either bankrupt or in a deplorable state. Not all businesses have to leave the hammer for privatization. There are companies that have to continue to reform and find policies in the public sector. In this regard, therefore, it is necessary to strengthen and regulate the financial situation of these enterprises rather than all to let them out of the hammer. Next, one more moment, this is the third point that needs to be submitted to the Supreme Council -- this is a list of strategic objects that are not privatized. This work is carried out in conjunction with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the end of the 19th year, this list of strategic objects was canceled, and it would be logical for us to see it, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we saw a specific list of enterprises that would actually go into privatization. And the last thing I'd like to pay attention to. It's the fact that any policy of the State Property Fund is not only aimed at privatization, it's aimed at managing that property, and it has to be effective. And I want them to continue this work and lower this percentage from 82 to half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u124	Let's go to the vote, dear fellows. Please invite your deputies into the hall. In accordance with article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, I am voting for the whole draft Resolution 9678 on the release of Rustem Enverovich Umerov from the post of Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Please vote. [[14:28:40]] For 302 Decision taken. Thank you. Thank you for your work. And we have another personnel question. According to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. On September 5, 2023, the head of the Ukraine’s Antimonopoly Committee, Olga Stanislavna Piszczenska, applied to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for her release from office. The Special Committee on Economic Development reviewed the application and, as a result of the consideration by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, introduced a corresponding draft of Decree 10001 for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The relevant materials are given to you. At the Conciliation Council, we agreed to discuss this issue in a simplified procedure with a statement to be delivered within 7 minutes to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine and its answers to questions from the National Deputies within 6 minutes. I suggest we support this procedure. I'll bet you a vote like that. 150 votes necessary, that's a procedural decision. Please vote. [[14:30:03]] For 302 Decision taken. Procedure supported. Let's move on to the question. The chairman of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Olga Stanislavna Piszczanska, is invited to speak. Please, in 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u125	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Thank you for the opportunity to speak. When I first stood on this rostrum and you agreed to my appointment three years ago, I made certain commitments to the independence and effectiveness of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee before and before you, honourable national deputies, that I would make my efforts to develop competition, conduct fair and objective investigations against violators, monopolists, contracting parties during public procurement. I promised a transparent and effective committee, forecasting and sequence of activities of the Antimonopoly Committee, a new level of international cooperation and the fulfilment of our Euro-Integration Commitments. I report briefly on the most pressing matters. Over the past three years, the committee has ruled against: the Detec Ahemtova groups on the abuse of monopoly, the Dniproazot of Colomaysk on the abuse of monopoly, the Interstarch Dustenka on the abuse of monopoly, the Interpipe Pinchuck on public trade contracts, the Tedis Kaufman on the non-execution of the committee's decision. As you can see, we didn't divide the so-called oligarchs into authorities or not authorities, we got out of law and competition. There were no foreign monopolies. We fined the Crossroads, opened cases against Naftogaz. Now these investigations are at the final stage. And I'm sure my successors will make their decision soon. We also followed the authorities. Decisions against the Ministry of Infrastructure were made with recommendations from the MoH and the MinAPC. During my cadence, we faced a fuel crisis. The committee proposed a comprehensive solution, namely, to return state control, not regulation prices, namely state control over fuel circulation. The problem of payments in the electricity market was a serious one. The committee itself has the idea of introducing financial guarantees not only through bank documents but also through real money. And now it's working, this system. The greatest achievement we have with you is the adoption of Bill 5431, which launches a major anti-monopoly reform and is a significant step towards the European Union. We also reformed the territorial divisions by reducing their numbers and at the same time enhancing their effectiveness. We've implemented a reform of the body, a charge of public procurement, we've set up a public institute. the institution of the authorised. Professionals currently selected on a competitive basis are solely concerned with complaints about government purchases, which are calculated by thousands per year. The speed and quality of the complaints we have achieved through this reform is important in the context of today's trend towards increasing transparency in public procurement. We have a large memorandum of cooperation with nine Central and Eastern European countries. This has provided new opportunities for cross-border cooperation in the field of protection of economic competition. And finally, I want to thank you all. First of all, I would like to thank the President of Ukraine for his trust and the opportunity to contribute to Ukraine's development. I want to thank you, honourable Members, for your cooperation, for the discussions that have taken place, for the criticism. All of this has led to some results that have been reflected in the bill. And I'm sure the reform started and it's irreversible. And I would also like to thank the Antimonopoly Committee team separately for all this time being there, for their professionalism, for their continued efforts to do their job as best and best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u126	Thank you, Olga Stanislavina. Stay put, we still have a question for you. Please sign up for a question to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee. Alexeiovich Honcharenko, please, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u127	I'm handing over the question to Volodymyr Ariev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u128	Please, Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u129	Madam head, you've just been so excited to report that you've fined Colomoysky, you've only forgotten one thing, that when this was about 4.7 billion charges, then all the decisions have been completely overturned and broken in court. And that's why I'm curious to hear, not the specifics of the absolute, but how much Colomaysky and his company paid for the resulting fines. Well, maybe you can clear up the situation too. There was a lot of talk about your sister’s involvement in forming the villa of the Greens in Italy. Please explain this in more detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u130	Thank you for asking. It's about decisions on Cologne. First. I made a decision on Dniprosit for the abuse of the monopoly. Today's ruling is in the courts, it's being considered in the courts, and it's not overturned, the courts are taking the side of the committee. As far as your gas station case is concerned, there are also no final decisions, and they are all considered in the courts. That's why it's too early to say anything. In particular, I would like to point out that the Antimonopoly Committee has fought for six years to decide on this issue, because the company's methods have all contributed to stopping the committee's consideration. And despite all the committee's decisions, he stands up for it in court. What I'm proposing to my sister, my company, is to ask my sister a question, because during my work at the Antimonopoly Committee, I didn't form any firms, I didn't call anyone to do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u131	Thank you. Please, European Solidarity, Grand Chief Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u132	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u133	Alexeiovich Honcharenko
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u134	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko. First. You know, at least I saw you. I want to remind you that the Antimonopoly Committee Act requires your permanent reports in Parliament. And this is how I see you for the first time, I think, after my appointment. So the first question. Why didn't you report it, as the law requires? Question number two. What about the investigation of road cartels? This is a question that many are concerned about, the Great Building is stealing, and who, and how did it happen? Where's the reaction, where's the result? What, then, are the achievements of investigating trade distortions? Reznik's jacket, which just left, is true without a jacket. Those other questions are touching, aren't they yours? And the last question is about trying to raise wages and bonuses. You said the law was important, the reforms. If the whole reform of the Antimonopoly Committee is to raise your wages and bonuses when we're told that there's no money for the military, do you seriously believe that this is a reform?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u135	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u136	Thank you for asking. First, Mr. Hotcharenko, we've met before, I've seen you many times. I also want to point out that during my term, I had many meetings with the deputies. I didn't refuse to meet any MP when there were suggestions or a desire to meet, to discuss any questions. What is involved in investigating conspiracies. This work is carried out on a regular basis, with more than 300 decisions each year on both the central apparatus of the Antimonopoly Committee and the territorial departments. And I want to point out to you that we have both loud decisions, and not only in road cartels, but also in any trade-offs, and in food-related products, until ProZorro's system is closed, it's been decided by fines of over 400 million on food purchases for the Ministry of Defense. And you can look at the list, and it's on the site where we've made decisions about the bidding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u137	Please, Voice, Roman Costenko. Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u138	Hand it over to the railroad, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u139	Iron, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u140	Sir, may I have your word again?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u141	It didn't pass. Jaroslav Ivanovich, second attempt.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u142	And she's happy. Mrs. Olga, I have three short, concise questions for you. And I'd like to ask you some quick and clear answers as well. First. What is the reason why you are leaving the post of Head of the Antimonopoly Committee after you have been announced? The second question. Have you been offered the post of Head of the Holding Foundation? And the third question. If this position has been proposed or considered, should we expect your candidacy as the future Head of the Maintenance Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u143	Thank you for asking. As to the reasons for the dismissal. Today, questions were also raised about the wage increase in the reform of the Antimonopoly Committee with the hints of what was being done under me and how my sister was forming some firms. So, let me tell you, I came to the Antimonopoly Committee and, as promised, to create a transparent body, to create conditions for people to work as effectively as possible for the benefit of the state and for the development of competition, and corresponding responsibility. All of this is laid out in the law. During the three years she presided, the committee became most transparent than it had been in the past 29 years. And how the development of any organization at every stage requires a leader of a different format. So I did my job, I kept the committee, we developed a reform together, we voted with you, and I thank you very much. So I think it's time for me to make room for people who, with these tools, will continue to improve the work of the committee and produce results. Thank you. What the proposed position offers. I have a personal rule in my life: until I have completed my existing phase, I do not discuss and distribute my plans and intentions. So I'm not going to comment and discuss these steps right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u144	Thank you, Olga Stanislavina. Thank you, you can sit down. Please sign up: two in, two in. And, excuse me, Dmitry Andriyovich, of course, I sincerely apologize, our super-minor committee, his head is invited to the floor, the Committee on Economic Development, please, for the co-report.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u145	Thank you, Your Honor Alexander Sergiyovich. Thank you, Your Honor, for the most recent response to your personal motivation. I personally think it's dignified and very noble, indeed. Thank you. Colleagues, as a result of the Economic Development Committee's consideration of article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Sand Olga Stanislavna be released from office as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. This decision was not unanimous, nor were the unanimous decisions on the committee when it came to issues relating to the subject of competition law. But that's normal and natural, because the very specificity of competitive legislation is that the conflict between business and regulator is completely constructive from the start. And so the MPs, who are here from the regions and have a lot of business in the districts, are expected to be very often in the position of those businesses that are represented in them. But the vote is unanimity in resignation, it speaks of something else -- a conflict inside each of the deputies in making a decision, or letting Olga Stanislavina go free, let's say. And it was a very difficult decision, because we've really seen in this time of time that it's systemic, that it's professional, that it's constructively capable of working with different factions, with different arguments, and from a variety of partners and steakholders. And so even though, of course, we have no right to say no to you in this decision, it was difficult for us and we hope to cross with you, work side by side on a professional path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u146	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, "Serve of the people," Schwaczko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u147	I want to thank you for your work and wish you success in your next job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u148	Please, Arjev Vladimir Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u149	Alexy Hotcharenko will say more.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u150	Hot plate, please. Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u151	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we are now considering the resignation of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. Well, it's clear that we have to vote in favour, because unfortunately, no work in the Supreme Council, no reports, no real results in the economy. The country monopolizes itself further and further, and no real monopolies have problems. So we already see a monopoly in the country for everything. Look, we have an office of the President setting up a monopoly on local authority, this morning a search for the performing duties of the head of the Montenegrin City Council, a remote mayor of the Plain, an attack on all local self-government, a monopoly everywhere. We see with you, my friends, even the monopoly here, they want to put our colleagues even at the call center. From Mikola "constanta" Tishchenko is in the hall. Hopefully, he'll take the line after that. I'd really like to hear him investigate the issue of colossal centers, what kind of videos and how we heard everyone there, "constant" here, there, the Prague restaurant, everything else. We see a monopoly everywhere. What was the Antimonopoly Committee doing at that time? A very good question, the Antimonopoly Committee tells us that we were preparing for reform. Reform in the form of a new law. What about the new law? Increasing money on socio-economic issues by members of the Antimonopoly Committee, increasing money and the salaries of the board of directors of the Antimonopoly Committee. Well, it's a real reform at a time when we don't have enough money for military personnel, as we're told, not to return the '30s', our protégés still get the pathetic 500 or the wounded 600-700 bucks a month. The Antimonopoly Committee raises its wages. And all of this is done by a man whose own sister is the director of a firm that is made up of the Will of the Greens. This is the end of the age of camaraderie. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u152	Please, Fatherland. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u153	Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! Well, anyone who has any kind of intelligence or adequacy understands that there is no system of government in Ukraine. And this is formalized by the fact that almost all institutions have been lost. They are not self - centered subjects. And in this situation, when we discuss the work of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, well, we can also discuss some of the work of the NCREKP independently, other institutions, and the same Kabmin. We all realize that they have long since lost, unfortunately, their subjectivity and they have become branches or offices, or decision - making departments, which are located at a well - known address on Bank Street. Four years of your power. Well, thank God, you've all come to realize that when selfies do their selfies with their certificates that there's no one left to translate, the predecessors don't pass, the aliens don't pass, and the Pope doesn't pass. These are the real results of your work. Well, let's analyze, three of them are Mrs. Olga Piscanska. I'm very sympathetic to her, really, she's been seeing the MPs, I can tell you, nice meetings like this, well, friendly coffee. There's usually no result. I find it even funny to have a claim against her, because the fact that I am leaving this position is evidence today that the institution has not taken place as such. And I can't understand, well if you've prepared reform with your colleagues, if you want to implement it, why are you following your own initiative? That is why tomorrow we will probably discuss her successor. Mrs. Olga, thank you, but believe me, today's monopolies are defeated by monopolies. That's my statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u154	Please, Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer, "Trust." And we're going to go to the vote. Invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u155	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished Ukrainians, Mr. Head! Ms. Olga Stanislavovna said what she considered to be the greatest achievement of the adoption of Law 5431 on improving the work of the Antimonopoly Committee. Indeed, this is one of the seven criteria for us to start negotiations on joining the EU. But what happened? In this bill, by the hands of individual national deputies – because the government has banned the Antimonopoly Committee in the Tax Committee and so on to step out of the Administrative Act, which has also become a condition for Ukraine's application to the EU – they have, by the hands of the deputies, as the government has forbidden, imposed the right to leave, escaped from the law. In no European country has there been such a case that the eco-inspection, which has also been suppressed by deputies’ hands, has come out and set its rules. We were told that we do not need general rules where business is protected, where it can accuse where justification may be required. How, then, will the European business come to us? And at the very beginning of the introduction of European funds, we're going to say, and we have Antimonopoly thinks we're going to have our own rules, we don't want them to. The European Commission wants European citizens and businesses to have as much rights as they do in Ukraine. And say we can't, we can't, we can't. And I am very much asking that we, now, be a comprehensive law of Minsk, and we have returned the Antimonopoly into the administrative procedure. Because it's Pandora's box. Customs will come out now, tax will come out, and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u156	Thank you, Larissa Mikolayevna. Let us move on to making decisions. Coltunovich, one minute. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, our group supports this initiative because there has been no real demonization in the country. There has been no major structural change with monopolies, oligopolies, and single dominant companies, and monopolies have strengthened their position. So from this point of view, it's a logical change, but tomorrow we're going to continue this discussion, which is important. Real politics from demonopolization is important. We also talked about Senator Sherman's Act, we talked about a number of other tools for distribution, forcing division, and so on, that is, reducing concentration on the market. Because why is monopolization so scary? Because monopolization restores the investment potential of Ukraine. Minus investment potential means that industry, economic potential, in general, loses the country. So demonopolization, the reform of demonopolization, is an undeniable priority on the way to building the investment potential of the country, to growing, to increasing economic activity in the country and therefore a staff decision, it is: (a) relevant, and (b) needing a new programme to overcome it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let us move on to making decisions. In accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, I am voting for the whole draft Decree, registration number 10001 on the release of Sand Olga Stanislavina from the post of Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Please vote. [[14:55:28]] For 306 Decision taken. Actor's been approved. Thank you, Olga Stanislavina, for your work. Yes, a break with a replacement for the performance. Whitelighter, please. Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer. Heads of factions and groups, please come to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u159	My colleagues, if I continue, I will be talking about the Administration Act, which was, let's say, the condition of obtaining the application of the European Union and of its own time was also a condition for obtaining VAT in NATO. And our vocation became the only one that adopted this bill, there were six attempts to adopt it, including thanks to Mr. Korneyenka, who is in charge of public administration reform, government reform. And what I'm saying is that this law is about protecting citizens and businesses from the aberration of public authorities. Each body, each central executive body, local self - government authorities, is governed by rules, if any, by negative decisions on citizens and business. And in fact, our European partners think that this law is the main anti-corruption law because it sets clear rules and procedures for the actions of the authorities. And unfortunately, he has to come in soon. We, at the end of the year, have such a practice that we have started ministries and some, for example, tax, antimonopoly, Derjaudit Service, make laws to get out. An expert working group decided not to step out of this law. And there was the decision of the government and the Prime Minister, the commission, to execute this law and to stop this shameful practice of introducing such laws so that some authorities would flee from action. And what do we have today? The ministries began to do so by the hands of the deputies and the Ecoinspect Law, and the Antimonopoly Committee Act was passed with our rights. So I urge my colleagues to be careful, the heads of the committee, I very much ask you, notice, the secretariats to look at this issue so that we don't get out of this bill because one of the conditions for the macrofine to receive 50 billion is also the European Union's Facility Plan -- the entry into force of this bill. And you can't play here because it's huge money, and above all, it's about protecting our citizens and our businesses. Likewise, I would like to point out that now the tax is taxing, and the customs office is looking for a way out of this bill. This means that those blocked declarations that can now be sued cannot be sued within a tax box that is quite capable of doing so. So I want to draw the attention of the deputies and the heads of the secretariat and the heads of the secretariats and the committees that this practice needs to be stopped because it's one of the conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u160	Thank you, Larissa Mikolayevna. I can only join your position. We will continue to work with the committees on this issue, because this practice is not very useful. We're going to move on to the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u161	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Thank you for your constructive position in complying with the Rules in today’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, many valid bills have been included in the agenda. I would like to ask you to put to the vote a proposal for inclusion in the agenda, preparation for consideration, and tomorrow to consider the bill that the President was talking about, which the entire Ukrainian society is talking about, which is really looking forward to Ukrainian society. This is Bill 9659, which compares the time of the war to punishment for corruption for treason. You've all heard the president's position, he supports it, he divides it, so I really hope that the Supreme Council will support both the head of state and the authors of the law, and the main thing is the Ukrainian society that requires this from Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u162	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal by Dmitr Alexandrovich Razumkov, as he sounded it. Please vote. [[15:00:48]] For-154 The decision is not taken. Mikisha from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u163	Thank you. Colleagues, we've already put 9559d in the agenda today, it's about supporting the local self-government of the army. I'm asking you to change the momentum and raise this bill, consider it now, because we understand the need for it to be extra. An additional source of assistance to our Armed Forces and the security and defence sectors in order to provide them with everything they need. So I'm asking you to put it to a vote right now and change your turn, and consider this bill right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u164	I'm putting Mikisha on the vote. Please vote. [[15:01:51]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Please, Arahama, from the procedure. Now Arahama of procedure, then you. Arachami from procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u165	Colleagues, we have a very important task right now: to return the declaration. I think there's an offer to put it in front of me right now. the changes to the agenda, now to vote on these two bills: one on the KUPAP, the first and then on the Law on the Renewal of the Declaration, and then on the agenda. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u166	Do I rightly understand that you are proposing that 7269 be placed at the end of today, at the end of today? Okay. 9269 at the end of today and alternative. Dmitri Alexanderovich, do you have another version of what Arahama said? Out of procedure, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u167	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. I have just said that you are very clearly conducting a meeting, but Mr. Arahama has asked only below two laws to set, not at the end of the day. That's the first one. And the others. How can the head of the majority faction now propose to remove the following issues of PEP? I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u168	David Georgievich, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u169	Please, a line. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, we, like you, are the electors of the people, we walk around the hall and gather the thoughts of the people, and we will listen to the thoughts of our hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u170	From motive, now. Rumkov is a replica, then Bujanski is a motive. Oh, you can't make a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u171	No, it wasn't a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u172	What, is this just going to go on? Then Bujanski – from procedure and then Razumkov – from procedure. Bujansky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u173	Dear David Georgiyovich, if you are really gathering thoughts in the hall, please forget the word PEP forever. Never return to that question. And let's finally go to the KUPAP vote and get the declaration back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u174	Please, Umumkov, out of procedure, Smagluk, out of procedure. And we're going to go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u175	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. But that's actually a replica, because David Georgiyovich was talking to me, and unfortunately, I wasn't talking to him, I was speaking out of procedure. But, dear fellows, I think that the people's deputies and heads of large factions should not go in the hall to gather thoughts, but to communicate with society, to go out to the people, and you'd hear a lot about thoughts, and their gatherings, and their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u176	Please, Vasilevska Smagluk. I'm sorry. Olga Mikhailovna. And then Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u177	Alexander Sergiyovich, don't be so nervous. We understand that on November 4th, Parliament made a mistake by voting for another decision other than the permanent status of PEP. This is the guarantee we received from the European Union for Ukraine’s accession to the European Union. One PEP – Forever PEP. And what you're about to see in front of society, and you need to gather your thoughts on the street, not here in the Pepe Hall, is going to tell you about the Maldives and everything else, about what you're doing. So, I think that we need to not lay down, but vote on one of the last two Euro-integration proposals that we need to be, is the return to the permanent status of the PEP. That mistake that we have to make to get us into the European Union. That's why we have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u178	Thank you. Stealth and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, if you ask people who will then watch the Supreme Council, 99 percent of them don't know what PEP is, but everyone wants to see who bought and declared. So I am very much asking and supporting Mr. Arahami that we today should vote on the restoration of declarations, to open a register of declarations. And this is now supposed to be the top priority of the Supreme Council. So please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u180	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of David Georgiyovich Arahamaia to go over the bill with registration numbers 9587-d and 9534. Please vote. [[15:06:53]] For 265 Decision taken. Please move on to registration number 9587-d. Draft Law. And, excuse me, Irina Volodymyrna is three minutes, and then, yes, we'll pass. A break with a replacement for the performance, "European Solidarity" and "The Voice," I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u181	Yes, and Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u182	And Fatherland, yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, I ask you to be very careful, especially the head of the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy, Mrs. Radin. And you know, a few years ago, when we were in Parliament now adopting anti-corruption reform, there was then President Poroshenko, then a government to show together the unity of all branches of government as to the need for these laws to be passed in order to obtain a visa. As a result, the visa - free country was given just in time in spite of the war. Now, notice, there is no President here. Notice, there is no government here that is actually negotiating the start of formal negotiations on Ukraine's entry into the EU. And there's no press here that's very important. Although we have repeatedly stressed, European Solidarity, that these debates should be public about the renewal of the electronic declaration. And our faction certainly supports the transparency of declarations and the fact that declarations have been public since the day of the declaration's renewal. That's what I'm saying right now. Unfortunately, yesterday, colleagues, there was a falsification of the committee meeting. Now with our vote, you and I are going to renew the Declaration for the MPs of the Elder who can't go out now with Greensky's decision to visit abroad, but they're going to declare themselves without getting a penny from the State. But those who hold positions at the top of the board of directors, heads of state and representatives, and, above all, advisors, advisors to the President's Office, they don't declare themselves, even though they run the country. Today, in Chernig search in Lomaka, the mayor of the city. This is an order from the President's office. We're being terrorized by the opposition. These are instructions from the President's Office. Corruption at the President's Office. You know, when we have a councilman from the President's Office who's been involved in international negotiations, he's standing around with a lexus, he's not known where he's coming from, and he says he's gonna be eating lobster for the rest of his life and laughing from all the Ukrainians, and he's not saying, Mr. Arestovich. And this is the decision of the anti-corruption committee. You know, when Mrs. Radina and her friends, Sasha and the others were standing next to Banka with their pants spread a few years ago, yelling, ironing your dirty underpants, please tell Banka to wipe the dirty underpants they're showing all over the country when they're doing corruption. We require you to listen to the transcript of the committee before considering the Declaration Act, so that you can see how the committee initially supported the amendment of Vladi Arjerva to vote on the President's out-of-office advisors, and then after the Banquet cry, the vote began, and Mrs. Radina herself, including. If this vote is falsified now, we will be forced not only to pay attention to it but also to the court. I'm like that. We have the name of a coward.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u184	Thank you. Let's move on to the question. Please, 9587-d: draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and other laws of Ukraine to improve the order of engagement of persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government (second reading). Sergey Konstantinovich Ionushas on the rostrum. So let's start with the right-hand side. Is there an allowance to be taken into account? That's what I'm talking about. Please, Hotcharyenko, readjustment number or how we're going to act.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u185	Guys, I'm counting on number 147. The important law is really, but I have a question, so what happens is why do we have important decisions at the end of the day? Why are they telling us now that there are no votes? Who will now be to blame for what, then, we do not consider the issue of corruption or openness, or registers, or transparency? Maybe so that people don't know what's going on in the President's Office, who's a counselor, who's a villa-shaped, who's rich. We've all seen the history of the investigation of President Shurmi's Deputy Chief of Staff, whose brother, his sister, here we have an age of cumulation, we have an age of sorority, fraternity started, he gets hundreds of millions for electricity, we don't know where. And it's all happening right now. And when we insisted that the President's Office's advisors declare it, they tried to hide it. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u186	I'll bet on the vote on Hotcharyenko's offer to support amendment number 147. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:12:21]] For-97 Edit is not supported. Who else has it? Let's go to confirmation. Please, David Georgiyovich Arahami or Ustinov, who? Ustenova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u187	Please place 25 revisions on confirmation. Colleagues, let me explain what this is about. In fact, this right now allows you to escape responsibility if you've forgotten to declare your property for almost a million 300 dollars. So I'm asking you, now that the IMF won't miss it, our partners won't miss it. And it's going to be hard for me, frankly, to explain to our voters and people why we can forget to declare a million dollars of property. So I very much ask you not to support this exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u188	Amendment number 25. Right? Committee position, please, Sergey Konstantinovich. She's a committee member.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, in fact, if you look at the table, in the fourth column the committee took a slightly different edition. In fact, the order is taken into account editorially. In order for the bill and the table to be clean, we still need to vote on it for confirmation. I'll hold on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u190	Let's go to the vote. I'm betting on the vote to confirm Ustinov's order number 25 of Mamka's national deputy. It's counted by the committee. Please vote. [[15:14:19]] For the 250. Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Next up, Alexandra Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u191	Colleagues, I'd like to ask you to put on the confirmation 27 of the bill that says, again, that you can forget for 1 million 300 to declare your property and as much as you can get for it, it's 17,000 fines. Please forgive the bill now that you can forget $250,000, and if you have a million, you need to clear your memory somehow. So I have a big request not to support this amendment, to press the yellow or red button now. Because our international partners will tell us that we need to do some work with our memory, not forget to declare assets for a million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u192	Sergey Costinovich, return to the rostrum, please. 27th Amendment, position of committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, it's counted by committee, but you've heard our colleague's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u194	Let's go to the vote. Amendment number 27, listed by the committee, the People's Deputy of Bujansky. National deputy Ustinov is asking for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:15:57.]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next. Arachami, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u195	Colleagues, there's a 112. I'm asking her to fail and not support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u196	Would you please take the committee's position? Let's go to the vote. Amendment No. 112 of the Pavlück People’s Deputy, as far as I can remember. Yeah? I'll find her now. Yes, taken into account by the committee in part. The National MP of Arahama requests that the committee make such a decision for confirmation. Please vote. 112th. [[15:16:58]] For 165 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next, David Georgiyovich Arahamiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u197	And also a 139, please don't support it either, because it allows you not to register corrupters who are attracted by lying in declarations for large sums, 260 thousand dollars, and up to 300 million dollars. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u198	Please correct number 139 of the people's representative of Bujansky. It's counted by the committee. The National MP of Arahama requests that the committee make this decision for confirmation. Please vote. 139th. [[15:17:52]] For-161 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. We can go to the vote for the bill as a whole. Then, dear fellows, we turn to voting for the bill as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on Registration No. 9587-d amending the Code on Administrative Offences and Other Laws of Ukraine to improve the order of accountability of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or of local self-government. Please vote. [[15:18:42]] For 305 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The factions. Thank you, Sergey Costinovich. Next question of the agenda. Bill 9534: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the determination of the procedure for the submission of declarations of persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government under conditions of military status. Registration number 9534, second reading. We invite the president of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee, Radina Anastasia Olegovna, to the rostrum. So we're taking into account first. "European Solidarity." What? On account of that, yes. In turn, yes. Who? Jonah. Yes. Please, three minutes, Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u199	Okay, I'm going to talk about 54, 56, 93. And in fact, when we're talking about electronic voting, it's been an important breakthrough since 2014, when we've worked really hard for all the halls and state institutions to resist corruption for our nation. And now there's been a very intense discussion here, but let's not forget that we're doing this not for anyone, but primarily for ourselves and for the civilisational public work of our public officials, unfortunately, that trust is growing in our society with each other. Our team of European Solidarity will continue to stand ideologically, once again, in a legislative way, not legislative spam, but the right text, which should be in the law concerning our Euro-Atlantic aspirations. Because with the start of a full - scale war, government officials were given a huge preference and they did not declare themselves, that is, the suspension of the declaration. Therefore, we need to return to transparency and do what is not a commitment. But turning electronic declaration into chaos and some inappropriate bureaucracy about the military, at this time knowing how much we choose and approach victory, is simply unacceptable and shameful. And so we're very sorry that our corrections were completely accounted for, and so are they. You know, we offered to ensure the declaration of officers of the VLC, military personnel, members of the Ministry of Defence, not ordinary soldiers. And we're seeing with you, as recently as in the media every day, corruption by representatives or V.V.C., or representatives in the higher offices of the Ministry of Defense, really containing huge corruption risks. In conclusion, I would say that this room has repeatedly been spoken of as special advisors to the President's Office. It's just a disgrace and there's no country in the world when out-of-town councillors of the President's Office are not supposed to declare themselves. Why? Why do they seem to be working on volunteer principles, but they don't run an ascetic, you know, lifestyle? These people have no responsibility. They participate in international delegations, they provide information policy for the state. Their statements are perceived by our international partners as state positions, but they bear no responsibility for them, and they avoid declaring them. And that's why "European solidarity" insists it should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u200	Please, Klimpush-Cincadze, I understand, go on, okay? Please, Ivanno Orestive, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u201	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, your honor, it's good that we're finally returning the electronic declaration of civil servants, officials. This question is long overdue, and this is really one of the requirements under the seven conditions that we were given when we were granted candidate status. But let's not pretend for the first time that we're actually starting this electronic declaration, because I can see, in the information space, there's this whole wave that's, like, really the first time it's started. Let's just say honestly that it's finally being restored and unfortunately it's not being restored to the full extent that it's been working before. I'm sorry that the committee didn't take into account our amendments, which were, in fact, aimed at protecting the interests of the military, but decided to formulate them in a committee version because they were not appropriate for the committee, where most of the representatives, sorry for the tautology, mostly, did not have to approve and accept the amendments proposed by the opposition political force. Well, you can see that even if you count anything, but at the same time, unfortunately, it remains necessary for the military after the state of war has ended or after their demobilization 90 days later to submit these electronic declarations irrespective of the state in which they will be found. And I think it's a shame that these norms are not in any way. which would allow us to take into account the situation of our defenders 90 days after the end of the state of war, which is not included in this bill. But I am also joining my colleagues, who have repeatedly stressed that it is unacceptable that our amendment, which we have proposed to oblige those who are now working as civil advisers of the Office of the President, to oblige them to present their wealth to society. These are the people who are giving orders, giving orders that are unspeakably simple, without any resistance doing both the Cabinet of Ministers, and unfortunately, colleagues, and this Supreme Council, which has in general lost any self-esteem and has ceased to feel in general the body of legislative authority, the body that is supposed to ensure the balance of power in society, and is now carrying out the commission of those who have neither legal nor political nor public responsibility to society. I'm sorry that there was a vote on the committee, there was some kind of weird fake, and I don't know what happened to that amendment that made it mandatory, and these, like, non-actors of the O.P.O.U. were obliged to declare it. Sadly, though, this rule is not in the final bill today. I'd like a room to support this amendment that my colleague Heratchenko is going to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u202	Thank you. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u203	First of all, five minutes. Please see, we had 13 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u204	Yeah, five minutes, sorry. Yeah, five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u205	Five minutes. Please change.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u206	Yeah, five minutes. And you'll bet on 405?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u207	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u208	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, Maria Ionova and I had just left the military hospital, where we were associating with wounded soldiers. So, after a serious injury after demobilization, they're all going to declare themselves. There will be declarations of MPs of the bulwarks who today do not decide or receive a single penny from the State. Who will not declare after your law? After your law, there will be no declaration of those who live at unknown expense and perform the functions of a state that has now replaced government, parliament, and, in particular, power. Today the military is writing to us every day, they're expecting this vote on the declaration, and they think we should all go back to the law passed by our team on the public declaration of officials. And it will be, I'm sure the voices we'll find out about it. But you will not be ashamed to press the button for military, injured, amputations to declare, and these thick faces that they steal live on corrupt envelopes, present at all meetings, not having permission to hold, directing you, telling you how to vote, replacing the government, giving instructions to each of you, they will not declare. You're not ashamed that Mr. Arestovich, who today spits in our army's eyes and says, "I'm going to eat lobsters and ride lexus," and you're going to fight, won't he declare it?" Because Radina and her committee failed the amendment to the President's Office's decree, according to a statement of supervisory boards, by the declaration of those who live on budget, that is, the state-owned enterprise. Guys, let's fix this! I remember Nastya Radina, a beautiful anti - corruption worker, who was right to say that all those who had anything to do with the government’s money should declare that all those who could influence the government’s decisions should show at what cost he lives for. Today I don't know who's holding her hand. Maybe it's the President's Office. But let's show that we can vote for this, that we're ready to go to the European Union, that we're ready to show who lives, that we know that those who steal from construction will be responsible, those who steal from tenders and give instructions to ministries will be responsible -- they'll show their wealth. Friends, you will all declare it, and those who give you instructions will not declare it. So I very much ask that you and I right now correct this error that happened on the committee yesterday when Mrs. Radina and the five brave members of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee voted in favour of the President's Office's special advisors who don't get out of the marathon, who tell us what to do to Parliament, what to do to the government when they drink coffee in the Crimea, when they win the counterattack. They know everything, only they don't answer for anything. And that's not right. They have to declare! So after Mrs. Radina, and I'm asking her to answer that question, she voted in favour of the President's Office, then someone called her, something came in, and she said that it was impossible to establish the results of this vote, we would vote. Still, only three brave members of the committee have appeared. And that was Mrs. Sumar. I want her to take the line, too, and I remember her specifically, and I told her what happened on this committee. Colleagues, so what's our 405 amendment about? It sounds like she's, well, everyone who doesn't vote, I assure you, we're going to take a stand with all the soldiers who don't. So, "The End Position." To establish that during the period of the military status imposed by the President’s decree, the number of entities of the declaration required to submit a declaration to the person authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self - government also refers to the counsellors, assistants of the President of Ukraine. Let's support Greensky, my friends, Greenie declares, and he's doing everything we can to get the declaration back. So why aren't his advisors declaring themselves? Let's help Mr. Zelenski and introduce the following so that President Green's advisors can also declare themselves. As well as positions of patronage, which embrace them on public grounds, as well as councillors, assistants from the Office of the President of Ukraine, the Chief of the President's Office, the Prime Minister, other members of the Cabinet, including those with positions of patronage and who embrace them on public grounds. The designated persons are obliged to submit a declaration to the person authorized to perform the functions. This is Amendment 405. And I am convinced that voting on this amendment brings our country closer to the EU and NATO. And I am convinced that President Zelensky wants to renew the declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u210	Please respond to the committee and proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u211	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment for one simple reason: because this amendment does not really allow for the declaration of advisers, because this amendment says that there is a non-existent, I stress, one declaration throughout the period. Such a declaration, Mrs. Irina, does not exist and cannot be filed. And that's why the committee rejected the amendment. It's very simple. Because the committee came to this point professionally. And I urge you, colleagues, to stop manipulating the military. This bill clearly states that the military, who are injured, who are in rehab, captured, interned, they make a declaration after treatment, after rehabilitation. Please don't manipulate.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u212	Let's go to the vote. The National MP Heratschenko requests that the number 405 of his authorship and colleagues be taken into account. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:33:38]] For 185 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And please, we have Ariev, 10th, 11th. 10, 11 revisions. Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u213	First Amendment Number 10. Dear colleagues, each of you will make a declaration, and that's fair. Every minister will make a declaration, and that's fair. The President's Chief of Staff will make a declaration, and that's fair. And the President, including the declaration. But we see, the President's Office advisors, they're on the air all the time, they're in delegations, they're having a serious impact on the President's and the President's office, but they're somehow out of the declaration. I mean, you're saying, "Dear colleagues, every one of you, and they're not." Don't you feel injustice here? Like Orwell, when they're all equal, but they're evener. So let's do this injustice right now and we're going to fix it. And it's a shame that the committee didn't support this amendment yesterday because it restores justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u214	Please allow me to take into account the proposal made by the national deputy Arjev to vote. Answer? Please respond to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment. First of all, there are no special advisors in this amendment, they're just not there, it's not written in the amendment. Secondly, the committee made it clear that we support the subject-matter review of the declaration, but that needs to be done in a comprehensive and professional way, colleagues, professionally. And to resolve the issue of assistant judges, protective faction services. Aren't you interested in the security services of the factions? And so on and so forth, colleagues. This should be done in a professional way. So the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u216	I am betting on the vote on the proposal of the Ariev People’s Deputy to take into account its amendment number 10, which was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:36:03]] For-152. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 11th Amendment, Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u217	I regret to read the 10th amendment, which still contains that it includes the advisors of the Office of the President of Ukraine and his manager, the first deputy and deputy, the officers of the Office of the President of Ukraine. It's all clearly stated. But 11th. The 11 amendment also includes the President-in-Office of Ukraine, because people who are authorized by the President of Ukraine, particularly on various issues, and there are land issues, have an impact on the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, it's a shame that we're actually putting Orvella into life today, when all are equal, but there are more equal. Have courage at last, you Ukrainian national deputies, you elected by the people of Ukraine and the Constitution requires us to maintain equality, so let all declare.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u218	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u219	Colleagues, like the committee, rejected the amendment in order to address the issue of the protective service in a comprehensive manner. Once again, the patronage of factions, the patronage of the courts, the assistants of the national deputies, and so forth, colleagues. Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u220	Thank you. Let us not mention the assistants of the national deputies, as it were. Let's go to the vote. 11th Amendment. Ariev suggests that the number 11 of his authorship be taken into account. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:38:02]] For 132 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Sumar? Please tell me the number of the edit.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u221	It's a replica. I was mentioned by Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u222	The replica. Oh, you were mentioned. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u223	Sadly, however, the committee failed to show political will, to be open, to settle the matter. We actually couldn't get the results on the committee yesterday when it was five in a row and four in a row. This proved to be a very complex arithmetic, followed by a literal hysteria. I want to understand who's running this committee and who's running this room. If we've turned from Parliamentary President to the Presidential Republic, let's change the Constitution. If not, let us settle matters honestly. People who make political decisions should be as transparent as anyone. For three years they have determined national politics, participated in international meetings, and no one knows what they are doing. I suspect they live for money in envelopes. Let them show it to you. If it's not corruption, then I don't know what corruption is.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u224	Thank you. Thank you, European Solidarity. Let's get to it, so let's do it in a row. Next up, Voice, one readout, please. Now we're talking about all the factions, first the factions, Dmitri Alexanderovich, then the non-fractional ones. Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, one minute. Tell me the number. 1st row.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u225	The 1st law explicitly regulates who in the legal persons of public law, the executives themselves, the members of the supervisory boards, or those who have the financial and financial arrangements to declare them. It's not in the law right now, it's blurry. And NAMK, unfortunately, has a pretty broad discretion when it can chase some private workers, at the same time, such cannons, and now we even have cases against them, they just banally hide declarations. Let's, let the leaders of Naftogazu, Crucifixion, and so on, we'll have to show the declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u226	Please, Anastasia Olegovna, position of the committee. Edit rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u227	Colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment. She's listening, but for her to work, it actually takes more revisions, and it takes to define, for example, what is a legal person of public law. Because now every legal person decides for himself whether it's public or private. So I rejected the amendment because for this regulation to work, much more amendments are needed, which unfortunately have not been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u228	Thank you. We need more amendments, we get it. Please, the national deputy Jurchisin asks to vote on number one of his authorship. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:41:17]] For 246 Edit included. Thank you. "The Voice" is everything? Voice is everything. Then let's move on to Fatherland. Who do we start with? Sergei Volodymyrovich, perhaps from you? Please, 7 minutes, Vlasenko, the show, and we'll keep going to the right. Please, 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u229	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I suggest you stop the political screams around the Declaration Act and talk not "factually" but specifically about this bill. Actually, the problem is, I'm going to say a little bit, you know, maybe a little bit pompous, but you know, I've been saying since 2002. Since 2002, I have been filling out a declaration, and it has been written since then. My colleagues at the Fatherland faction are doing the same thing. We voted in favour of this law in the 14th year. We have no problem with that. And we went through the tests, we went through the tests normally, as they say, zero. However, colleagues, it is necessary for a declaration to be, you know, a friendly one, or a declarant, not when a person is put in prison for real mistakes, but for mistakes he cannot be put in prison. Here a respected colleague from the neighboring faction spoke of someone forgetting to declare something. If you've forgotten to declare, you can't be held responsible, because it's about having an intention, when you've hidden something from the declaration, then you can only be attracted to it. I don't understand why the committee didn't support a series of completely technical amendments. Well, in particular, it's a very simple correction. Colleagues, if you specified property in one section of the Declaration, and in another section of the Declaration, this property did not indicate why you should be dragged to prison? If, of course, in the Property section, you've given you the right corporate rights rather than the right ones in the beneficiary section, why do you have to be taken to prison for this? The other one. If NAZC has issued an explanation by the honourable head of the committee, by the honourable head of the committee, and I as a declarant see that this explanation applies to my situation, why can’t I use it? Why can’t I apply the explanation that was already there? An absolutely technical question that has nothing to do with the substance of the declaration. Third moment. Look, each of us declares our property, constantly, every year, provided someone declares their property in 2016, this property hasn't changed at all, it's like an apartment, and it's left: so many meters, at this address. You declare the same apartment in 2017, in 2018, 2019 and 2020. WHY check what they have already checked? Why do you make sense of this apartment, which you have declared for 5 years, to ask you for supporting documents every year if the check has already been carried out, if NAZK has already said that there are no violations of this object? Why do we need to ask the declarants every time a pile of papers that have already been checked? I don't think that makes any sense. The only explanation I've heard on the committee is that it's like we're just renewing declarations and we can't make any changes. And once again, we in Fatherland think that declaration should meet several criteria. The first is that declaration should be transparent, this time, that is, society should understand and see the wealth of an official. But the second is that the declaration should be clear to the declarant. I want to remind you that it's not just 400 with the tail of the people's deputies, it's 800,000 declarants, including deputies of rural, village councils, rural, village heads and so on. Very often, on the committee yesterday, the question was that all the declarants were educated and they had no right to make mistakes, but the head of the committee was wrong five times yesterday. I mean, it's absurd. Colleagues, there is no doubt that the declarant should be responsible for concealing the acquired property. But if the declarant was wrong, he did not unwittingly reflect something, it was not his responsibility. For failure to go to prison, legislation should not be such that the declarant goes to prison for an obvious error. Although I'll pay attention again, the declaration should be hard enough. I think I'll also talk about this later when I introduce certain amendments, that NAM should allow the declarants to make corrections to the declaration when it's obvious that it's a mistake, when there's obviously no evil intention of hiding this property and when it's proven that it's acquired in a legal way. So, colleagues, we need to talk about that the main goal is to prevent corruption, which is called the National Anti-Corruption Agency, not the National Agency. And so I'd like to now, you know, I have one more minute left, and I'd like to go to those who call themselves public activists or whatever, respected or unrespectful public activists, when you all walked under the table, I was already filling out a declaration, like almost all my colleagues from the Fatherland faction. At a time when you haven't paid taxes to your own state, I've personally paid taxes in the last four years more than all your anti-corruption centers combined. So we don't have to tell you stories. Make your own declaration, first pay your own taxes, first do something for Ukraine, and then run and start harassing national MPs and others. I emphasize once again: the declaration should be, it should be transparent, it should be understandable, but it should be such that the official can fill out the declaration normally and peacefully, be responsible for the criminal concealment of illegally acquired property, not be responsible for obvious errors and minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u230	Thank you. Please, then, your changes. Give me the number, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u231	Amendment number 26. This is an amendment that if an explanation is given to a citizen and another citizen wants to benefit from the clarification, he has the right to do so in addition to the National Agency. If, of course, one of my colleagues is told that the house needs to be rented like this, and I'm going to read my declaration and see that this is my case, I can just use this explanation. An absolutely technical question that has no effect on the International Monetary Fund in any way, it has no effect on anything, but it will simply make some misunderstandings impossible, so let me put it mildly, in NAZC, when a declaration is explained to one declarant, the other declarant, and so on. Please be supportive. It's a technical question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u232	Please take the position of the committee, Anastasia Olegno.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u233	Colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment because it allows you to do more savvyly and to give you one explanation, another, and then to say that it is similar or not similar. The committee believes that there should be one approach, a recommendational explanation that is the same for all. That's it. And no individual explanation, no opportunity for NAZC to decide whether or not you have a similar legal relationship. So the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u234	I am betting on the vote on the proposal of the national deputy Vlasenka to take into account the issue number 26 of his authorship and colleague Eutuska. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:50:40]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u235	Thank you, Your Honor. 246 amendments, she's saying that, colleagues, if you've given any property in one section of the declaration and you haven't mistakenly indicated it in another section of the declaration, it's not a crime because you've declared it. I'm saying again, I was giving an example, let's say one of you is the founder of the enterprise. You have the Property section, where you pointed out these enterprises, you have the second chapter in the declaration, "The End Beneficiary," wrongly, in this section, you didn't specify the same companies. It's not a crime, and you can't be held responsible for it. If the property is mentioned in the declaration, it means that you have declared it, and there are no more problems. Then, during the test, all the necessary documents will be submitted to NAZC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u236	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u237	Colleagues, the committee has rejected this amendment because the committee has proposed a general rule that a rule that is more conducive to the declarant should be applied if it is possible to interpret the anti-corruption rule in many ways. The rest of the point standards were rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u238	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the national MP Vlasenka to take into account his issue number 246, author Vlasenko, Eutusek. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:52:28]] For 247 Edit included. Next, Sergey Volodymyrovich, number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u239	Amendment 277. It refers to the example I was talking about. If you say property for a few years and you don't change it: there was an apartment 70 meters, there's one there, you declare it for five years, if you've checked it once, you don't have to check it for the second, third, fourth and fifth times. No need to force the declarant to confirm what he has already confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u240	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u241	Colleagues, the committee took this amendment into account editorially, assuming that NAZC could not recheck except in cases of new information. For example, what could it be, colleagues? There may be a court decision, there may be answers to an international legal order, and so on. And this opportunity needs to be left behind. So I'm asking you to leave this amendment as an editorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u242	Sergey Volodymyrovich, do I understand correctly that you are proposing to take full account of this? Okay. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal by Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenka to take full account of the number 277, which the committee is currently taking into account in an editorial way. Please vote. [[15:54:10]] For 239. Edit is fully counted. What's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u243	Thank you, Your Honor. Next item is 290. The correctness is that, colleagues, if you have made mistakes in the declaration, NAZC should give you the opportunity to correct these errors and then check on the issue of badness and all. And don't torture or drink your blood. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u244	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u245	Colleagues, committee. Colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment for one simple reason. This amendment is completely equivalent to both administrative and criminal responsibility for the lie in the declaration. Taking this amendment into account, colleagues, will mean that the European Union will not give a positive conclusion about the implementation of recommendations, a colleague. This amendment will give rise to the veto of the President and the Supreme Council will be guilty of breaking agreements with the European Union, a colleague. That's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u246	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the national MP Vlasenka to count the number 290. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:55:44]] For 131 The decision is not taken. Next up, Sergei Volodymyrovich. Colleagues, I call for silence in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u247	I'm asking you to give me time first, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u248	Yes, now the majority will calm down a little. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich, readjustment number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u249	Thank you. Number 291. Colleagues, I suggest you approach the discussion professionally. Once again, I don't need to say that someone's taking away some criminal responsibility. There's a NAKU and NAKK, there's every possibility of checking, there's unreasonable assets, there's a liability, there's a lie in the declaration, there's a lie in the declaration, and there's a lie in the declaration to bring responsibility. But not for mistakes, I emphasize again. It's a huge, huge difference. Thus, 291 amendments also address issues related to the possibility of correcting errors rather than avoiding criminal liability. I say again, I'm for law enforcement authorities to fight corruption in a qualitative and professional manner, not to touch the MPs of rural, village councils for 2-3 thousand dollars and shout, look at us fighting corruption. So, colleagues, if you're hiding in prison, if you're wrong, it's a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u250	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u251	Colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment on the same terms as the previous one. This amendment destroys responsibility for the declaration. This amendment protects corrupters. This amendment, if taken into account, will lead to a negative conclusion by the European Union regarding Ukraine’s implementation of anti-corruption recommendations. I'm asking you, colleagues, not to play with this. The committee made a balanced text. I ask you not to destroy him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u252	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the national MP Vlasenka to count the number 291. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:57:56]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u253	Last amendment number 407. My colleagues, first of all, I want to thank everyone who supported the amendments. I will not ask for the support of Amendment 407. But I have a minute, and I want to thank everyone who came to this point in a professional way. Once again, I urge everyone not to manipulate the issue of declaration. Actually, the declaration should be, the official must be transparent. However, mistakes prevent a person from being thrown into prison. Do you understand? If he's hiding, he's in jail. And I wanted to say, unfortunately, with all due respect to the head of the committee, the committee didn't make a balanced decision. The committee did not take into account the arrangements that were made by the Governing Body. The committee was a little manipulative last night, so I'll put it mildly, with certain decisions. So let's also be honest and honest here. Once again, I want to thank all those who supported the amendments. We made a declaration at least a little bit more friendly to the declarants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u254	Please move on to Fatherland, Krulko. It's a one-way ticket, isn't it? Two revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u255	Give me three minutes, and I'll make two adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u256	All right, three minutes is two readouts. Please, Krulko. Tell me about the license numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u257	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, I would like to remind you first of all that this composition of Parliament is not now heroically setting up declarations in the country. I would like to remind you that the past composition of Parliament has been adopted by the Law on the Determining of the Declarations of Persons authorised to perform the functions of the State and local self-government. And the purpose of the declaration, which was introduced in Ukraine, was not to put all the deputies and officials behind bars, and the purpose of the declaration was to make the Ukrainian society see what kind of official he lived for and how much money he had. Publicity and openness were a key requirement when we adopted that law. And I wouldn't want those bodies that are called service bodies to prevent corruption to somehow be empowered to become penal organs. We don't have to act together here with you so that this law that we're now adopting is defined as giving a declaration solely by the MPs, because such narratives are constantly echoing. And the point is that all those officials who receive payment from taxpayers should show what they live for and how they live their lives. This is the key task that we have to do. The Fatherland faction has consistently supported and will support the submission of declarations by those entities authorized to perform the functions of the State. But I do have a question. And please tell me, dear colleagues, why we didn't even take a simple step in this law and leave the possibility of deputizing local councils, where less than 10,000 citizens live, the electorate lives, even if they don't make declarations. It's the Marjorie MPs, the small villages, the small OTGs, they're making up MPs today, I want to tell you, and this is a systemic situation. I have some adjustments, I'd like us to listen to them. Even though those OTG MPs have less than 10,000 people, they don't have to file declarations, they don't get a penny out of the government budget of taxpayers and they're written in this law. So I'd like to make another number 27 amendment, and I'm going to comment on it now. Now two amendments, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u258	Yes, please, 27.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u259	Thank you. Amendment number 27. I want everyone to listen very carefully. This is the amendment that resonates with the amendment that my colleague Sergey Vlasenko made, and she's got 224 votes. What is this amendment about? This is an amendment that, if the National Anti-Corruption Agency has clarified the issue of one of the declarants, it immediately posts it on its website and then the next declarant, having this clarification, can use it in his legal relations, as it is in court when you make a decision and then you can use it as evidence when you have another case. This is a perfectly logical and correct decision. And we only needed two votes to do it. Because, dear colleagues, if you have a situation with your own declarations and you have an appropriate explanation from a colleague, you will not be able to use it if we do not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u260	Please allow me to vote on the proposal of National Deputy Krulka to take into account his number 27. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:03:52]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next Ivan Ivanovich, or all?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u261	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. And, dear fellows, I have amendment number five and number nine, they're the same amendments. They relate to the declaration of deputies of local councils, where there are fewer than 10,000 voters. They're small communities, they're not getting any money from the government budget, they're working in their local communities, and they're making decisions that don't affect the decisions of the whole state. I ask you to listen to this, even though these deputies do not have to submit declarations. Well, let's at least see, in some way, that these people, you know, don't have much pleasure in having them come to the sessions, so they have to make declarations. I think we have to make this decision to look positively at our local self-government bodies in communities where there are less than 10,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u262	I bet on the vote the offer of John Ivanovich Krulk to take into account his amendment number 5. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:05:14]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Please. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Please, Cabachenko, three minutes, yes, three adjustments. Give me the numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u263	Number: 138, 345 and 406.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u264	Are you going to put all three of them on?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u265	Yeah, I'll put all three revisions on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u266	Okay. In turn, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u267	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u268	One minute at a time. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u269	Yeah. Thank you. One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u270	Please, one minute, 138 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u271	Amendment 138. It's a justice bill. It's very simple, it tells us that foreigners, board members of state-owned companies, members of state-owned enterprises, state-owned organizations that are working in Ukraine today, so that they can also declare themselves. I think that this right is very fair, that none of the foreigners who are currently working in Ukraine have yet confirmed their effectiveness and the proportionality of the wages they receive in the end result, so this right is once again that foreigners who work in Ukraine in state offices that are part of the supervisory boards of state banks continue to be listed have the right to declare and do so. Just as other declarants do. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u272	I bet on the vote the invitation of the national deputy Kabachenko to take his number 138 into account. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:07:13]] For-89 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next 345, please. Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u273	345 revisions is a sequence adjustment. Today, a valid rule of law stipulates that all declarations are filed by April 1. So this amendment suggests that those declarations that were not filed in 202 and 2022 should be filed by April 1, 2024. Just like the 2023 Declaration. That's why we have to go back and comply with the current standards of Ukrainian law that say that declarations are filed by April 1st of the next reporting period. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u274	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the national deputy Kabachenko to take account of the number 345, which is rejected by the committee, its authorship. Please vote. [[16:08:23]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And 406th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u275	Thank you. Last amendment number 406. She's talking about the next thing. The draft Law that we are considering today makes it very clear that it is permitted not to declare the place of residence of members of the family of the declaration subject if these persons live abroad. I would like to remind everyone, first of all, that the war today in Ukraine is not abroad, so it seems logical that the subject of the declaration decides for himself whether he wants to declare his family’s place of residence or not. Thank you for your support. I'd like an update.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u276	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u277	Colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment because it is clearly in conflict with the International Monetary Fund. It's categorical.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u278	Please bet on the vote Kabachenko's proposal to consider its 406th amendment. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:09:47]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. "Paternality" is all, right? Thank you. Well, it's all right, I mean, yeah. We're done with the paperwork. Yeah, for God's sake, give our "fatherland" so it'll never be "everything." Please, "To the future", the speedboat. Three adjustments. Four revisions, please. 243rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u279	Yes. Dear colleagues, number 243. It is suggested that information on the object of a declaration belonging to the right of ownership of a third party and according to the rightful person is to be owned or used by the subject of a declaration or by a member of his or her family if the act is done by agreement with the subject of the declaration or by a member of his or her family and the subject of the declaration is known of the commission of such an act. Colleagues, it's when you're given a commission, and you don't know what's going on with the property. So in order for you not to be responsible for non-declaration, I suggest you accept such an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u280	I'm betting on the proposal of the National Deputy Krachod Anna. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u281	Colleagues, this amendment was rejected by the committee because it also clearly contradicts agreements with the International Monetary Fund and makes it possible to hide property that is in use. So I'm asking you, colleagues, not to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u282	I'm betting on the proposal of the National Deputy Speedhod to count the number 243. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:11:38]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 247 revisions, please, Speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u283	247 is the same that was just voted in Sergey Vlasenka, so I'm not taking it into account, but I'll take a minute. Fellows, you know, if we're talking about professionalism, there's a lot of us need to get a book of State Theory and Rights to keep our ears off the Supreme Council stand. Because if you don't understand what the difference is between concepts, you have to go back to the alma mater and learn the theory of state and law. Because right now there are just questions that you don't even understand what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u284	Please read the next 264. Will you put it on?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u285	It is also included in another author. I'll put the next one, that's 289.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u286	Okay. 289. All right, 289, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u287	This edit tells you that you can fix errors. It's not that you're relieved of your responsibility for wrongdoing, but the issue of wrongdoing and the question of error are different things. So I propose that we all and millions of other declarants be given the opportunity to correct mistakes. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u288	I'm betting on a vote to support the number. Committee position? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u289	Colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment because it also destroys the system of responsibility, it is not about a mistake, it is about not taking responsibility, and how it conflicts with our obligations to the International Monetary Fund and the European Union. I'm asking this amendment, colleagues, not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u290	I'm betting on a vote to take into account the order number 289 of the People's Chamber of Commerce Anna Konstantinovna. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:13:53]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Then we have, as far as I can tell. Another one? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u291	You know, I'm going to do 264 anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u292	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u293	I remember people's servants running around the hall in T-shirts, "I have the right to make a mistake." Yes, Mrs. Radina, I suggest you read in the theory of the state and the right to determine what a mistake is and what a misdemeanour is, and not to cover up your inequities simply by asking the International Monetary Fund, because we have everything covered up by either the International Monetary Fund or the European Union. And it's just a question of professionalism or non-professionalism and knowledge of basic concepts of state and law theory.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u294	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of National Deputy Krachod Anna Konstantinovna to take her number 264 into account. Please vote. [[16:15:07.]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. All right, Anna Constantine? Okay. Then we have "Serve of the People." Please, Mikisha, two revisions. What's 30? 53rd?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u295	Yes, thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Colleagues, look, let's fight corruption, but let's not go crazy. I remind you that war is coming and we have a state of war. What's with the military declaration? My editorial says that the declaration is made by the solely binding heads of all security and defence departments. This is the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Nazpol and so on, as well as all the military personnel working at the TCC, and the purchasers, and other military personnel, to be released from the declaration. Let us no longer lose our minds during the war so that those who now defend us show us what property they have, where their children, families live, and where their addresses are. Well, let's not go in and out of the bush with anti-corruption, as they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u296	Please bet on it. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u297	Colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment and I'm asking her not to support it, because the committee's military officials have proposed an editorial that is in agreement with the General Staff. I ask her not to balance and to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u298	I'm betting on the vote of Mikishi Dmitry Sergiyovich to count the number 53. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:16:55]] For-167 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Please 365, yes, Dmitri Sergiyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u299	Yeah, yeah, 365. If the military doesn't support it anymore, I don't know what it is. I suggest you don't tell me where you live. Yes, you will be obliged to give absolutely all your possessions, all your expenses, all your finances, shares, everything else, but where you live you do not need to be indicated. And that's exactly what this is about. Let's not forget now that the war is coming, who has forgotten, and security must first be reflected. And I'll remind you why we even closed the declarations -- just because of the security issues. What changed in a year and a half? What, someone's got a war? No, it goes and security issues should remain and be relevant. I'll remind you that you represent the nation and the highest legislative body. If you're not there tomorrow, who's gonna do it? Are we going to go back to dictatorship, or is there anything else that the Cabinetman will be in charge of? This Kabmin has already directed. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u300	Please put to the vote Mikishi's proposal to consider his amendment number 365. It's rejected by the committee. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u301	Colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment. And I ask you to reject it, because it will bring about a balanced editorial that allows you to protect private information about your family’s whereabouts abroad. Please reject that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u302	I bet on the vote Mikishi's proposal to take into account his number 365. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[16:18:52]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Also Radina Anastasia Olegovna's "Serve of the People" wants to make two adjustments or one? Two. Please. 371 law. Please, Radina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u303	Good afternoon, dear fellows, once again! I ask you very much to support the amendment on open access to the register of declarations. That's what people expect us to do. We also have a duty to show it to people. People gather on drones, people gather on guns, people gather on armies. It is our duty to show what a high official is living in this time and to open up access to the register of declarations, not to hide. This will not lead to the opening of military declarations, this will only apply to civilian declarations. Please support 371 revisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u304	And the position of the committee is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u305	Colleagues, the committee took this amendment into account in part in another edition. I ask you to take this amendment fully into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u306	Full count. All right, I'm voting on the proposal of the People's MP Radina to take full account of number 371. Please vote. [[16:20:22]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next 450. Oh, no? Okay. By the factions of the vote, show the last. Okay. Then let's move on to the right. Checkouts. Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, come in. Smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u307	Instead of three 148s, 366s and 454s, give me two minutes, and then I'll go straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u308	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u309	Start first, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u310	First.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u311	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one will argue with what should be declared. Everything should be declared, and those who made millions during the war on the state budget, on the army, on the purchases must be punished. In fact, declarations will only be a part of it, because declarations and illicit wealth are different things. However, I am sure that most high - ranking owners will have nothing to hide, but some will have to hide. You are there today to mention who lives abroad, not abroad, and so forth. And I have a question, why did the committee hide this bill like that? Why weren't the people's deputies invited to the committee yesterday? That's a question for the committee head. Second question. Why did the chart only appear in the morning? How do you feel about your work? You're talking about how to declare, how to be open, how to be professional? But first, professionalism needs to be put on top of itself and demonstrate its effectiveness as a national deputy, as head of the committee, because it happens in a low-level way. What did you put in there? What you want. What's wrong? They didn't put the President's office's advisors there. You don't turn your head here. Did you invite the deputies? Show me. I'm willing to answer for what I've said, and you're not likely to answer for this law alone, but generally for anti-corruption activities, the same thing. But it's going to be time, and so far let's open the declarations, and I'll go through the adjustments that you've also rejected, even though they're completely logical and right. Why don't you tell me, Anastasia Olegovna, why didn't you invite the people's deputies? What were you afraid of, and what were you hiding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u312	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u313	The position of the committee on what? No correction specified. There were at least a dozen other national deputies present, and there were some other committees, and there was no problem of coming. Why didn't you come, I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u314	Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich, 148 correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u315	18 will be fine, Alexander Sergiyovich. But the committee head is lying. The national deputies who came there came because they found out about it, not because you invited them. Stop telling lies to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u316	Please 18 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u317	Dear colleagues, the law provides for the maintenance of a valid rule on the ability of NAMF to issue clarifications on anticorruption legislation. There's been a lot of talk about this today. The text that is proposed, however, completely clears up the normal interpretation of the explanation. And in fact, every time, we're going to be dealing with recommendations. As recommended, the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption will not be responsible. We must come to a precedent in this regard, when there is an explanation, it will be distributed to all, beginning with the Ukrainian national deputy, ending with the lowest official to be declared. So I'm asking everyone to support Amendment 18.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u318	I'm betting on the vote on Dmitri's proposal. Anastasia Olegovna, do you have anything to say to Dmitri Alexanderovich? Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u319	Colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment for one simple reason. The committee noted that the clarification of NAZC should be recommended. Otherwise the NAZC will create 238 different declarations today and another 300 tomorrow. Is that what you want? There must be a recommending explanation so as not to be misused.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u320	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the People's Deputy Dmitry Alexanderovich and colleagues to consider their amendment number 18. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:25:18]] For-182 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. What's next, Dmitri Alexanderovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u321	Thank you. Fifty-one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u322	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u323	51st, I'm sorry. 51 Amendments, it stipulates that military personnel will submit a declaration on April 1, the following year, in which the legal regime of the state of war is suspended or revoked. In doing so, the military leaders and their deputies, military officials, and military purchasing officers generally provide declarations. The cabman must be. We need to give the Kabin an assignment to study this question about the relevance and accuracy of this list. You know, you were there talking about a committee about who should declare, and the next time I suggest you go to Guliapole or the Yar Times, have a committee there, talk and maybe fill out your declaration. You'll have time for this, especially calmly, no one will distract you. So, dear colleagues, let us honor our defenders and give them the opportunity and time to declare themselves. This is 51 revisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u324	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u325	Colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment because it did not take into account all the interests of the military. There's nothing about the prisoners, there's nothing about the wounded, there's nothing about those who're being treated when they're being declared, Mr. Dmitri, about them, please also mention them. Please reject this amendment and leave it to a committee that takes into account all categories of members of the military and which agrees with the General Staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u326	Let's go to the vote. Amendment No. 51 of the People's Deputy and Colleague. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[16:27:09]] For 133 The decision is not taken. And the last? More?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u327	Yeah. 46 amendment, I will not put her to the vote. Anastasia Olegovna, do not translate from a healthy head to a patient. The fact that there are no wounded, prisoners, those who have disappeared is not my fault, it's your fault that you're so inefficient about your work. So let's leave the work you've done, and for the military officers who are on the front today, let's do what we've suggested with the "Smart Politics" team. Thank you. Next amendment, Alexander Sergiyovich, first, if possible, give it time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u328	Please, first.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u329	Thank you. Regulation 326. This amendment proposes not to include in the register of corrupt persons who have for the first time been drawn to administrative, disciplinary or civil liability for acts of corruption or corruption-related offences. You want to get the people's deputies out of here, but we have a very large number of people who declare themselves at very different levels. When they get to that register, they actually stay there forever, and the information about them stays there forever. Even I've been in the room with colleagues from your profile committee and representatives of the public sector, so let's say they don't object to this. So let's take care of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u330	I'm betting on the vote proposal by Dmitr Alexanderovich Razumcz to count the issue number 326, rejected by the committee, by the author of Razumkov, he's asking to take it into account. Please vote. [[16:29:03]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. What's the number? Smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u331	Three hundred and thirty-eight. First, the law proposes to ensure the interaction between all registers and the only register of declarations. We talked about this with NAZK, they think that the maximum amount of information should be automatically delayed there. I'm here to support the Head of NAZK, to support the leadership of NAZK, and I think it was the right thing to do. As soon as they do, I think that the declaration will have to be launched in full scope, it will allow for the maximum efficiency, transparency and rapid declaration to be made to everyone at any level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u332	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u333	Colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment. This amendment is unprofessional, unfortunately, because the term "electronic public registers" narrows down the amount of information compared to the fact that NAZC is already providing in the manual. The committee has proposed a much broader formulation in order to really cover all the information and telecommunications systems, registers, databases that have the information needed for the declaration. And your amendment narrows it down. So I ask you to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u334	I bet on the vote the proposal by Dmitr Alexanderovich to consider the number 338, the committee rejected it, the authorship of Razumkov and colleagues. Please vote. [[16:30:41]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dmitri Alexanderovich, all right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u335	Extreme, but I won't put her to the vote, 462th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u336	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u337	Anastasia Olegna, it seems from your performances, you have all the blames, all the non-professionals, they narrow things down, they do something wrong. You've never wondered why so many questions to you as to the head of the committee, to your work, to your bills, to the quality of what you bring to the hall? Why so many questions in the audience, people on the street? I think it's going to be time and it's going to have to be answered, and you're going to have to talk about your declaration, about all the assets here, abroad, and so on. Yes, I remember the cat, thank you. Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, that's all. I'm out of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u338	Thank you. The accounting changes are over. There was an initiative after confirmation. It will be. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, readjustment number. Gerasimov, please. For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u339	Alexander Sergiyovich, permission for confirmation number 153. So I have a big request. Dear colleagues, you were told here from the rostrum that my colleagues, Ira Heratchenko, Victoria Sumar and Vladimir Ariev, were lying, unprofessionally saying that there are no advisers. I read literally the text of 405 of Ira Herashchenko's rulings with colleagues: "What are the advisors of the President of Ukraine and whose positions are of the patronage and which they carry out on public policy, as well as advisors, assistants to the Office of the President of Ukraine, the Chief of the Office of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister and so forth." Vladimir Ariev's edit, the same story, literally, is clearly written that councillors are to be declared, and the word "congregators" is present. So to be honest, I don't understand how to trust a person who just tells an honest lie from the rostrum. Thank you. And put the application on confirmation. Thank you. And I'd appreciate it if we put these voting rights on the right of Heratchenko 405 and Arjevo's number eight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u340	Unfortunately, I don't have voting rights, it's some other knowledge, I don't know it yet. Please take the seat of the committee and vote 153.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u341	Colleagues, you have been informed that your amendment says that a declaration is made in one during the entire term of office. I inform you there is no such declaration. You can't follow the standard you're talking about. Please take a professional approach to preparing your amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u342	Thank you. You're going to be 153rd, Arthur Volodymyrovich, aren't you? Okay, let's not put it in. Okay. Colleagues, let's get to the vote if there's no more permission to confirm. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please take your place, because you will miss the vote now, yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] For confirmation? Who? Who else is to be confirmed? Jonah? Oh, please, Bondar. Number? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, Jonah is okay, then Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u343	Okay. So I'm going to put 281 on confirmation, which is counted. But I'd like to say it again from this rostrum. I am very sorry that the head of the committee is another approach to the military, and to the outside counsellors of the President's Office, unfortunately, another approach. And, you know, I'd like you to be such a hot anti-corruption woman, though, as far as you're concerned, and to the outside counsellors of the President's Office. Because our international partners, trusting your words, would also like to see the same approach to all people, especially those who make decisions that make policies that inform them. And, you know, on the one hand, we're women of rural councils, local councils are forced to declare, and those who seem to live at what cost the councillors outside the President's Office live on, we don't force them to declare. So I would very much ask you to be the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u344	Please, Bondar. Number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u345	20 revisions. Dear colleagues, I would like to support my colleagues who said that it really wasn't the convening of Parliament that passed the Law on Electronic Declaration. We also talked about openness all the time and were ready, as they say, and supported it, and we were ready to vote for it if it were to be put there several times. I recall, and many of my colleagues remember how here, near the Supreme Council, there was a so - called lie detector. Not enough to declare, I'm the only one actually the first to enter that lie detector and pass it. Second, he was offered a majority manager who said that it was all a mess and literally a few days later they cleaned up this booth that was here. So what's happening today with the military, who have to declare it, and the President's Office's advisors don't have it, it's all propaganda. And you're really early.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u346	Please, thank you. Is there anything else to confirm? Can we get to the vote? Okay. Please be prepared, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're already talking about confirmation, Lord. Do you have confirmation? For confirmation. All right, five warrants for confirmation. David Georgiyovich Arahami, five rights from your faction for confirmation, please. Uncluded, one minute, please. No. No.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u347	Good afternoon, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u348	No. No.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u349	I'm going to put one confirmation check, 313, it's an important readjustment. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Anastasia for the joy of simple parliamentary communication. If it weren't for it, there wouldn't be so much regulatory ecstasy. I'd like to make an adjustment, it's relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u350	It's rejected, Mr. Nekludov. We're talking about confirmation of rights now. Find something that you can count on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u351	Well, that's David Georgiyovich thanks for doing it. Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-05-m0.u352	Thank you. Please. Let's go to the vote, colleagues. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill under registration number 9534 amending certain laws of Ukraine to determine the procedure for the submission of declarations of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government under conditions of martial law. Please vote. [[16:38:33]] For 329 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. Let's see the factions. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. Together to victory! Glory to Ukraine!
