ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, before the plenary meeting, I would like to highlight the need for unwavering compliance with the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the opening of the plenary session, its running and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. I ask all colleagues to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a pause in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme. I remind you that the Supreme Council is working in a single plenary session. So today, according to our resolution on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war and the proposals of the Conciliative Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue our plenary session. In Parliamentary tradition, let us begin work on the execution of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Honorable Ukrainian national MPs, for almost a year, the Ukrainian people are decisively resisting criminal full - scale Russian aggression and impressing the whole world with their courage and dedication. In the 21st century, the Russian occupying state grossly and cynically violates acts of international law, including the purposes and principles of the UN Statute, commits terrorist acts against civilians, destroys critical infrastructure, threatens the use of nuclear weapons. Such actions by the Russian Federation are a genocide of the Ukrainian people and a direct threat to international peace and security. However, we will surely endure, win this fierce war, and expel the aggressor. Every day and every minute our courageous soldiers heroically choose our freedom and independence, the future for our children. Regrettably, the right to live freely on earth has been paid by hundreds of lives of the best defenders and defenders of Ukraine. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the soldiers who gave their lives for Ukraine. Everlasting memory and eternal glory to heroes. Let us also honor the memory of all peaceful citizens who have fallen victim to Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please, sit down. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u2	We have two announcements. In accordance with part two of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the release of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tishchenka Mikolaiovich, from the duties of deputy head of the political party "Serve of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the decision of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Slut of the People" to exclude from the MP's faction of the political party "Slut of the People" of Ukraine Tishchenko Mikolaiovich. Similarly, in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I report the release of the national deputy of Ukraine, Halimon Paul Vitaliyovich, from the duties of deputy head of the political party "Serve of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes' time to the daytime issues for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. So I'm asking representatives of the MPs and groups to sign up. Please. Please, Julia Leonidivna Klimenko, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Roman Kostenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u5	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's been a while since I've been out of this rostrum. What I'd like to say right now is to ask for your attention. I see what's happening right now: we're talking a lot about human resources decisions, there's a lot in the political order of the day about appointment, withdrawal of ministers, about different assignments. I want to say that we pay a lot of attention to this because we need to understand that the enemy has not yet been stopped. Now that we're here, the enemy continues to march in different directions. This is also true of the east of our state, this is true of the south of our state, it destroys our cities, it destroys our villages, we have a humanitarian crisis, and now we're talking about how to change a minister. I know there are questions, but we need to understand, without defending anyone, and without blaming anyone for the consequences. Now the main task, when in the daytime, everyone knows, is that all the intelligence and partners are telling us about the big offensive, and I'm sure it will be soon, our task, once again, is to rally and give proper measure to our enemy. We need to understand what it means right now -- it's our direct communication with our partners, and now, as far as I can see, it's going well in us. The minister is coming to us, he's talking about what kind of weapons we have, what kind of weapons are coming to us right now. I'm talking to the soldiers on the front, they're waiting for us first of all, these are rational decisions that would give us a first chance to secure them. At that time, we have many questions on the front. The fuel that's being delivered right now needs a replacement and needs control. That's what we're going to talk about on the committee. Maybe all that's going on is our committee's fault, because at some point it's lost control. And that needs to be corrected, that's what we're talking about on the committee. We're talking about other assignments right now. For example, at the Ukrainian Security Service. How can we be appointed now? I don't mind a specific candidate, but if a person can't even come to the committee, how will he feel about the Supreme Council? We must regain control, we must restore the subject of the Supreme Council and we must stand over our defense forces and help them fight the enemy, not make simple political decisions to please someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u6	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! The historic summit of Ukraine, the EU, has just ended. It was the first summit during a large-scale military aggression, the first summit since Ukraine became a candidate country in the European Union. And that's why it's important for us to make progress in our integration, to ensure that this year's pre-accession negotiations begin, the accession negotiations in 2023. I would like to emphasise that one of the main issues raised is the question of the establishment of an independent judiciary and an independent Constitutional Court. We were to vote on our law, "European Solidarity", which was fully in line with European partners, and instead we voted on another law that pushed away European integration. It would be desirable to do so until the summit. But now we demand and stress that the Constitutional Court Act be put into order and voted in an editorial that corresponds to the recommendations of both the Venice Commission and the European Commission. This will ensure the unity of the people, for 90 percent of the Ukrainian people support our unity of entry. There is another position that relates to unity, and this is the attitude of the army. We are deeply outraged when some try to remove 30,000 dollars from Ukrainian military personnel, allegedly for the economy of the budget. I want to emphasize that we have to save, start with the coded money that went into the asphalt, from the big theft that went into the asphalt, from the "Radah" channel and the telethon that 2 billion take from the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And I'm stressing that we don't have to let the 30,000 bracelets that the military officers even take to the front with them, and the Tro and the reserve buy uniforms, armor, helmets -- what's not enough, and we have to protect the military. And position three is column five. We must provide not only an army, but also a language, but also faith. To take a decision by the Constitutional Court, which prohibits the use of a name other than that of the Russian Orthodox Church. We need to immediately implement this standard. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u8	Please, Efimov Maksim Viktorovich, MP's "Delivery of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u9	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! All year long our integrity has shown that we have learned the bitter lessons of history of the past centuries. There are many challenges ahead, so we need not relax. Our Consolidation not only works for further victory, it lays an overstrength foundation for the European future of our country. Today, Ukrainian political leadership openly declares its goal of becoming a full member of the European Union. As far as it's real, it's up to each of us and our desire to run this marathon. Of course, when we talk about Ukraine’s path to the EU, we need to talk not only about domestic tasks for official Kiev, but first of all about strengthening our economic ties. It should be recalled that in May last year, the EU Regulation, which introduced the tax regime and the liberalisation of trade between our State and the European Union, passed its deadline in three months. This decision has given strong support to Ukrainian exporters, especially native agrarians. I am convinced that trade liberalisation needs to be prolonged until the end of Ukraine's EU membership negotiations. Secondly, we need to expand our connection to the European energy network. Energy is the blood of the economy. Now plans to increase capacity to two gigawatts of power are aimed at increasing electricity imports. At the same time, once our powers are restored, this trend will work for the export of electricity to all European consumers. Gentlemen, when this war is over, Ukraine will no longer be former. It's gonna be Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u10	Please, Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u11	Irina Konstanovic, Future Group. Dear colleagues, I wanted to address you with a very important thesis. It's practically been a year since we've been in the middle of a full-scale war, and we need to talk about what lies ahead. But before we understand what war will be like in the next stage, we still have to check our clocks and realize clearly: what makes our victory possible. And it happens that somehow the gains of those people, those institutions, those organizations that work actively for help go unnoticed. From this high rostrum, I would like to highlight the importance of our international front, the work of a permanent delegation to Paris. In this room are present: Maria Mezenceva, Helen Homenko, Eugenia Krawczuk, who headed the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Our delegation has done a job this year that no diplomatic representation, an institution, has done before the war. To keep quiet, to ignore the work on the international front means to underestimate it and not to place those shiny shirts, the accents we need in our new year of work. So I would ask that when we appreciate the work of the government, of other institutions, we should talk about both our international representations and the importance of their work. And in this context, I want to stress that not only are specific people, but individual delegations are the voices of Ukraine. We need to mediate information about Ukraine in countries in Europe and the Western world. We need to hear the voice of Ukraine from other playgrounds. It's from our information channels, in social networks, that we have to make this work full-scale. This should be the balance before the full-scale war that is now going on. So I thank this delegation, and I thank and express great expectations for their colossal work. And I demand that the people's deputies vote not only by hand but also by supporting our international representatives financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u12	The town's Yuri Ivanovich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group. After that, the Bakunec, and then Kožemyakin. And then we move on to the agenda. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u13	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, I pay attention to both the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ukrainian government, and to the fact that the war has laid before us new requirements for the protection and protection of the rights of the child. Moreover, we need to prepare a new regulatory framework and procedures in postwar times. At the same time, there are a number of critical problems. First. Yes, in the past, 2022 was granted the status of an "orphan child" and children who lost their parents were found almost, or more than twice as much as in the postwar 2021. 2021 -- over 10,000 children were granted status last year -- less than 4.5 thousand children. We demand that the Ministry of Social Policy act immediately to ensure that every child who has become an orphan loses parental status, receives the necessary protection and support from the State. Today we don't know where the children are, which are actually orphans. The other one. The war also changed the reasons why adults lose their ability to care for their children. Many problems have also been added to war, such as the disability of parents as a result of military action. You all know the situation when the mother of six lost her limbs by blowing up on a mine. What should the State do in this situation? On the one hand, Mother lost the ability to carry out her parental duties, on the other hand, can we deprive Mother of her parental rights? It is likely that new forms of family arrangement, new forms of care, support for such families who have lost the ability to care, will be created to fulfill their parental responsibilities. Instead, the new reformers of the Ministry of Social Policy, instead of finding solutions, begin to destroy what works. Speaking of improving family forms of parenting, they decided to eliminate child - care homes of the family type because they simply did not understand what family forms of parenting were and how they should work. I address the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Zelensky. More than four months ago, here the Supreme Council passed a law that made many changes to improve the protection of the rights of the child, three months ago it was not signed. And finally. Children’s pains, childhood woes, brought about by this war. Sadly, some of our colleagues avoid their daily work in the Supreme Council Hall. Our position is that all national electorates, who are not in the Supreme Council Hall, should be deprived of their mandate. Anyone who has ignored the work of the Supreme Council since February 24 must be deprived of the status of the Ukrainian national deputy and given.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u14	Please, Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. Afterward, the national deputy Kožemyakin. "Trust," Coon.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, of course, every day we should remember and thank the braver we are to defend our land on various fronts, enabling all of us to work in our jobs. And it should be noted that our advocates today, choosing the day after day for the victory of the Ukrainian people, are not only defending Ukrainian territory, they are also fighting for the defense of Ukrainian language, Ukrainian culture and for the preservation of Ukrainian national identity. It's very important. And the cornerstone of each person's self-determination is knowledge of its history, because knowledge of history is the foundation that shapes the consciousness of the people. And the knowledge of Ukrainian history by a young person is actually molding his awareness and belonging to the Ukrainian national idea, that is, to the Ukrainian people. And especially in times of war, when our advocates are actually fighting in the East, history is also an important weapon that is capable of unfolding, destroying these Kremlin myths about the ideas of the Russian world. In fact, it is able to shape the awareness of everyone who belongs to it. Therefore, it is the Ukrainian history, the Ukrainian identity, that is, the object of the attack, our enemies. And when the invaders enter the Ukrainian lands, they immediately destroy libraries with books from history to destroy, in fact, the awareness of each person's belonging to the people, in this case every Ukrainian's belonging to the Ukrainian people. So everyone needs to know the story to feel like a part of our people. And of course, the media test for our graduates should include history knowledge, should include a history exam. This is very important because, according to famous Ukrainian historian Jaroslav Gretzak, history has its advantages, it allows you to see each other's situation in comparison to times, in comparison to centuries, in comparison to different situations. So once again, I urge the government to let young Ukrainians pass the history test when they graduate from school. This is too much for the formation of the Ukrainian nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u16	Please, National Deputy Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". Dear colleagues, after this presentation, we will proceed immediately to the consideration of matters. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Andrew Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u17	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Andrew Kozemyakin, faction of the Fatherland. The Fatherland faction also supports those fellow MPs and those factions that today oppose any discrimination, any humiliation, and the oppression of the military. It's about the 30,000 bracelets in everyone's mouth today, and everybody's talking about it. But I want to speak from another question. I'd like to speak on the subject of volunteer formation. We all passed the National Opposition Act with you in July. And it clearly defines a volunteer as a citizen of Ukraine, who is on a voluntary basis included in the service of the Territorial Defence Force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In addition, it is clearly defined that voluntary formation of the territorial community is a paramilitary unit formed on a voluntary basis that is designed to participate in the preparation and execution of territorial defence tasks. Article 8 of this Law states that volunteer formations are carried out directly under the direction of the commander of the armed forces of the TRO. And you and I have already made changes, and today, at the time of the war, the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine's decision, the formation can perform combat tasks at any point in the front. That's why I'm here with my colleagues, and there's a lot of things here in this room, because with all due respect, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I want to say that among the members of the Supreme Council, I know only 30 national deputies who in the first days of the war took up arms and went to stand up for the independence of our country, when, excuse me, there was a full ass under Kiev, sums, Harkov and so on. And today, some people have forgotten, and even in this room, people come up to me and they say, MPs, they don't need volunteering, they need to be cleaned up at all. Well, it's a shame, you know? So I'm two projects that I've registered since September to help volunteer formations make them more combative, that is, give them the opportunity to take cars. We don't need fuel, we're gonna charge it ourselves, these cars, and we're gonna put some clothes on, because on combat assignments, I'm sorry, it's going. We get shot at by the Armed Forces because we're out of shape sometimes. And a committee that, unfortunately, today consists of those who signed up just to be smart, they can't help and they say it's not in time. Ruslan Alexiyovich, this is a disgrace, you know? Volunteer forms today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor. We finished the discussion. The important thing is that after our victory the number of UBBs is no more than the number of those who have taken up arms. Dear colleagues, we continue our consideration of matters of the order of the day. Showtime's up. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues. Please, take it. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to issues. Therefore, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, I propose that a signal vote be held before the issue is considered. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Ready, fellows of honor? I ask everyone to take part in the signal vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:43:48]] For 267 For 267, against 7, with 14, with no vote, 72. Everything as usual. Dear colleagues, a letter has come. We're now going into the consideration of the question, more faithfully, we're finishing 8067. Last time, I want to remind you, we've been through all the amendments that the national MPs have taken into account. Now, I take it there will be a few amendments that will apply to confirmation. But there's a letter from Julia Volodymyrical saying that 35-y, 36-y, 39-y, 40-y, 42-y, 49-y, 92-y, 101-y, 116-y, 136-y, 145-y, 153-y, 156-y and 216-y will ask for confirmation, but instead, she's asking for 7 minutes to perform. Did I make the right call, Julia Volodymyrna? Please, Julia Volodymyrna, 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, the 8067 Bill on Corporateization, and read: Privatization of Energoatom's profits is without exaggeration a historic, negative historic decision in this Parliament. Just think of the time when our famous Armed Forces are fighting for Ukraine, for its sovereignty, for its independence, for its power, for its power, for its power, for the right to manage its resources, for its wealth, at this time behind people without a referendum, without any advice, without publicity, the largest state corporation of Energoat is being merged. A question that I want to ask you right now. You asked the question why corporateism is not public during the war. The answer is very simple: Because no one is at peace today with a cheap price for nuclear power, no one is at peace with a profit that could be generated between the energy cost of the Energoatom and the real one, for example, the European price. I want to draw your attention to the fact that if you compare, for example, the market price at which nuclear power is purchased in the French power utility EDF and compare the price that today is the price of selling nuclear power in Ukraine, it's very easy to compare: 45.3 euros per kilowatt in France and we have 57 dollars per kilowatt. Just notice, 32 times in Europe, this energy is expensive. You realize that our Energy and cheap electricity is a resource for a country that will allow us, including us to rise after the war. The cheap electricity of our business, our families is what will allow us to go through a difficult path and war and post-war. In order for you to have no illusions, this law has not yet been passed, in fact, on the merger of our Energoatom, on its actual privatization of its profit. This shameful document has not yet been voted out, and the NCREKP announced a few days ago that in the spring they will raise the cost of electricity three times for people, for business, for everyone. I want to ask: is this really what the Supreme Council is up to today? I want to look more at Ukrainian society right now, so you know, now we're talking about practically taking away cheap electricity from the people of Ukraine, 50 percent of the generation, and putting it into some private corruption hands, and at this time, in this Parliament, nobody's interested. Now everyone in the room is doing their own thing, talking to each other about domestic problems, smiling, enjoying life, and literally in a few decades, they're going to press the button and take away the cheapest electricity in the Ukrainian people, the atomic energy. I also wanted to tell Ukraine right now that what is about to be voted in Parliament is essentially the transformation of the State Enterprise Energy Company into a shareholding society and the return of government from the government of Ukraine to virtually private hands. At that time, we are trying to join the European Union and go through all the stages of preparation. But no one points out that the practice in the European Union, especially in Old Europe, today directly contradicts what you are about to do. I want to remind you that on July 6, 2022, the Prime Minister of France, Elizabeth Bourne, announced the nationalization of the French nuclear power company, despite France's acceptance in 2000. And the reasons for this, the Prime Minister of France called the war in Ukraine and the need to protect France's energy security. France nationalizes its nuclear power company, and in the course of the war behind closed doors, as the Ukrainian land seemed to be behind closed doors at night, it now appears to be Ukrainian Energoat. After the adoption and signature of this law, the Ukrainian government, the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian authorities, the Ukrainian State will no longer influence the formation of price or the formation of politics or the administration of this largest property. Dear friends! In addition, part of Energoatom’s property is not transferred to the stock company, including the entire social sphere of Energoatom, all the auxiliary production, the work of Energoatom is virtually destroyed and the support of the atomic community is supported. It's all happening in your eyes. This is against the national interests of Ukraine, the law on real privatisation of profits and the corporation of Energoatom, against the people of Ukraine. I ask everyone for whom Ukraine does not make a sound, to vote against, with red buttons. That's why it's taking away the most expensive of her wealth in Ukraine, taking away our present and future. It takes away the stability of our business and our families. Stop this vacchanal. Sooner or later it'll be over, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u20	Thank you, Your Honor. We completed the discussion of this bill. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. We're moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm making a proposal to the committee. Julia Volodymyrna, do you insist that these amendments be supported? She took after them. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, then, Julia Volodymyrna, I'm going to make these amendments in turn that you asked for. So, dear colleagues, I understand that the position of the committee remains that these amendments remain to be taken into account. Do I get it right? Please, Gerus.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u21	Yeah, that's right. Those amendments that Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko listed for confirmation, we supported on the committee. That's why I'm asking you to support me in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, we will now vote on this list of amendments and move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. The 35th Amendment of the National Deputy Krakhod is counted by the Committee. At the same time, Julia Volodymyrna asks that this decision be made by the committee for confirmation. I'm betting on the 35th amendment. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:53:59]] For 254 Decision taken. Next. The factions, I'm sorry. The following amendment 36. It's an amendment to the People's Deputies of Shipheil. She's a committee member. Julia Volodymyrna asks the committee to make such a decision for confirmation. I'm putting up 36 amendments, asking the people's deputies to vote. [[12:54:42]] For 253 Decision taken. Next amendment 39. 39. Amendment of the Krakhod People’s Deputy. She's a committee member. Deputy Timoshenko is asking for confirmation. I'll bet 39 for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:55:15.]] For 254 Decision taken. The next amendment is 40. 40th Shippyla. She's a committee member. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko made this decision for confirmation. At 40th Amendment, I ask the people's deputies to vote. [[12:55:53]] For 256 Decision taken. The next amendment is 42. 42 amendments, it's counted by the committee. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote in favour of this amendment. She looks to Deputy Timoshenko for confirmation. 42 revisions. Please vote. [[12:56:27]] For 256 Decision taken. 49 revisions. Same situation, authorship this amendment of the People's Chamber of Commerce. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, Timoshenko asks to be put to the stand, and I ask the national deputies to vote. [[12:57:01]] For 259. Decision taken. The next amendment is 92 amendments. 92. Amendment of the Batenka People's Deputy. It's counted by the committee. National MP Timoshenko asks for this decision to be confirmed. I'm betting 92 amendments for confirmation. I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[12:57:36]] For 254 Decision taken. Next amendment 101, 101 amendment of the Batenka People's Deputies. It's counted by the committee. National MP Timoshenko asks for such a decision for confirmation. I'm betting 101 amendments for confirmation. I'm asking the national MPs to vote. [[12:58:09]] For 257 Decision taken. Next Amendment 116. 116. Amendment of the People's Chamber of Shipheil. It's counted by the committee. This amendment is made for confirmation by National MP Timoshenko. 116 amendment, please vote. [[12:58:42]] For 258. Decision taken. Next amendment 136th. 136 revisions. One second. People's Deputy Shipheil. It's counted by the committee. Timoshenko makes this decision for confirmation. Please vote. 136 revisions. [[12:59:17]] For 257 Decision taken. The next 145 is an amendment. 145 amendments to Shipheil, counted by the committee. Timoshenko is asking for this decision to be confirmed, so please vote. 145 revisions. [[12:59:50]] For 255 Decision taken. 153. Amendment of the authorship of Krakhod. This amendment is considered by the committee. That's why I'm asking you to vote, because it's on confirmation. Please vote. 153 revisions. [[13:00:29]] For 259. Decision taken. 156th Amendment of People's Deputy Shipheil. It's counted by the committee. Becoming Ukraine’s national deputy, Timoshenko, for confirmation. Please vote 156. Please vote. [[13:01:02]] For 256 Decision taken. 216 amendment, 216 amendment of the Mamki People's Deputy. It's counted by the committee. Tymoshenko is putting this amendment to confirm. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:01:35]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Two more fixes? Artura Volodimirovica. Call the numbers right away. What's that? 126th and?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u23	And please, 155th. Stand by for backup. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u24	The 155th?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u25	Five o'clock, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u26	Now, one second, I'll find them. 126th. One second, 126 repairs. 126th is the National Deputy Krakhod, it's listed in editorial terms. At the same time, the national deputy Herasimov requests that such a decision be made by the committee to take an editorial view of the confirmation. So I'm asking the people's deputies to vote on the 126th amendment. Please vote. [[13:02:36]] For 262 Amendment 126 is taken into account in an editorial way. And 155, if I understand correctly, now I'm gonna find her. 155 amendments to Shipheil, counted by the committee. At the same time, the national deputy of Herasimov asks for such a decision to be made for confirmation. I'm putting 155 in for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:03:16]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act on the Shareholder Society of the National Atomic Energy-generation Company Energoatoma (registration No. 8067). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:05]] For 259. Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's been a statement from two factions, which factions, the Voice and the EC, are taking a break with the replacement for the performance. I take it you're passing it on, aren't you, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u27	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, please don't leave for a moment. This question will apply to our military, and after that, I will ask you to support me. There's a bill registered in Parliament, registration number 8339. This bill refers to the fact that our warring heroes today may be given a military title, an officer's military title, regardless of the fact that they have no higher education. Heroism, patriotism, and the protection of the Fatherland do not depend on whether a person has reached a war of higher education or not. The state of the foreign service today would like to thank her, support this law, and have suggestions that will be taken into account in the second reading. My co-authors of this law are not the first time we have asked all factions to include this bill in the agenda. The only argument today is that the Ministry of Defense has reached a negative conclusion. First of all, it's a receipt, and in every position we can discuss. Secondly, you know, I think the Ministry of Defense today is something to do, starting with the personnel issues, ending the scandals that we're seeing around this ministry today. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you, Mr. Ruslan Alexiyovich, to address you, I would like to ask your colleagues to give you the commission of the committee to support this proposal, to commission the committee to consider this bill and to present it tomorrow at the first reading in the Hall. This will enable people who have shown heroism, who do not have the drawbacks of unrepentants who have fought for at least six months on the front, to have sergeants and seniors, to get the title of junior lieutenant. Who drives to the front, and here many of you have been on the front and interacting with our military, knows that today there is a need to increase the military force, the quality of the army, who knows how to fight, who fights for our independence, and, above all, appreciates the lives of those with whom he fights. That's what distinguishes the Ukrainian army from the racists. Dear colleagues, I therefore ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put forward an immediate motion for this bill on the committee and tomorrow for this bill to be passed, incorporated and submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u28	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. When he gets back, we're his head. [[B in m in s a l in]] Head, head, head, head, head, head, head. [[B in m in s a l in]] The procedure is out of place. Out of procedure, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, this, excuse me, looks like an assault on the army in the first place. I call on the chairman to put forward an immediate motion for a review of Bill 8339 at a committee meeting and to bring it to the Supreme Council Hall tomorrow for a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. What's our tomorrow? 7th February 2023 in the plenary. February 7, 2023
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u30	7339. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u31	8339.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u32	All right, I'll bet on the vote made by Dmitry Alexanderovich. Please vote. [[13:08:41]] For 304 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u33	Okay. That's it. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next question we have, dear colleagues, is two draft decrees for the execution of the heads of certain military administrations. 8413, 8414 – two draft regulations. Arthur Volodymyrovich, did we have one discussion? Two discussions. Then let's talk about 8413. I make an offer (preparate!) include this question in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. 8413. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:09:52]] For 323 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:10:13]] For 287 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-against, immediately? Someone besides "European Solidarity" will be there. They will be. Then two in, two in, against, please. Please, Bunin Sergey Valeriovich, "Serve of the People" faction. I understand that, Venislavski, don't I? Venislavski, please. Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u34	Honorary colleagues, honourable national MPs, the President of Ukraine introduced a draft decision to review the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the implementation by the heads of the military administrations of the localities in Izumsk, Kupyan and Chuguyiv areas of the Kharkiv area of authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. You and I have repeatedly approved such decisions as have been initiated by the President. This is about ensuring the efficiency of operation in the freed areas that have been under temporary occupation, as well as in areas that are in the immediate vicinity of combat zones, effective functioning of local authorities. In these areas, there are usually no local authorities or they have shown their incapacity. Therefore, in order for public authorities to function effectively in these areas, these draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been initiated. In this case, we have additional powers. It is proposed that additional powers be conferred under the Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status, of the respective heads of military administrations. The faction of the People's Servant political party will certainly support these decisions. And I call upon all the national MPs who understand the complexity of the functioning of the local authorities in these areas to support these decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u35	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. The word is given to national deputy Sauras Maxim Vitaliovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u37	Irina Vasilovna Friz, please. Excuse me, colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, today we are considering the decision to form a VCA in the Izumi, Kupyan, and Chuguyiv regions. This decision is important, and the faction "European Solidarity" will support it. But it will be supported for specific reasons. Because we don't have to combine with you today the question of decentralization or the reform of decentralization, which is considered to be the most successful reform, with the need for introduction in or in other areas of the VCA. So why do we need to introduce VCAs in these areas? Because, first of all, after the depopulation of these areas, we've seen you and I see how many turnarounds have actually gone into all of the links, into all of the spheres of activity and governance of these areas, starting with local councils and, unfortunately, even the educational sphere. It is known that, in particular, in the Kupian region, teachers were taken away to Russia last summer to learn how to teach the teachers of the occupying country in our schools their history, their mathematics, their goddamn language. It's an unacceptable thing, but it's probably a matter for law enforcement authorities to deal carefully with all the issues related to the co-operation with the occupying party and to bring these decisions to court. As far as local councils are concerned. Dear colleagues, for example, in the local councils of Kupyanska, Izuma and Chuguyeva – this was the majority of the deputies representing the political forces of the OPCW banned, the "Serve of the People" and the so-called Kernes "Successful Kharkiv" bloc. In fact, the political leaders of these political powers should bear responsibility for the formation of such majority groups in these councils. That is why we call for support. We consider it necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u39	Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, after that we vote. People's deputies, please prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u40	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say immediately that the "Fatherland" faction will support both the rulings relating to the appointment of heads of the military administrations in the Kharkiv region and in the Hersonian region. But I would like to draw attention to the organization of community protection work, where local authorities are directly involved. Regrettably, not all regulated mechanisms allowing local self - government officials to carry out the tasks they need. I have an experience of how this happens in the Plains bordering with the Republic of Belarus. And where there are conscious, normal leaders of the territorial communities, there is no problem with the implementation of these tasks, which are provided by the heads of the district military administrations. I don't want to blame any of the leaders of the territorial communities, none of them, but there's a gap in the legislation. And those community leaders who feel that tomorrow might be the day when the force structures, whether it's the D.B.I., or others can come to them and ask, how did you open up there, for example, the sawmills, the board to organize these fortifications. The "Fatherland" faction supports this decision. Once we have gone this way, there is a decree of the 1255 government that clearly regulates both the authority of the heads of military administrations and district and district administrations as well as their responsibilities. Let them carry out their duties, and local self - control is for help. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion, we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the implementation by the Chiefs of Military Administration of the settlements in Izumi, Kupyan and Chuguyiv areas of the Kharkiv area of powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (registration number of the draft Decree 8413). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:18:11]] For 326 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next draft of the Order, similar to the previous one, 8414. This is a draft decree for the execution by the heads of the military administrations of the Kakhovsky and Hersson areas of the Hersson area of authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:18:58]] For 323 Decision taken. I'll bet you I'll consider this with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:19:18]] For 278 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Two, two, against that, please write down the factions that want to speak. Dear colleagues, don't split up, I think this is going to be a quick discussion, and we vote. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u43	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, Irina Fries has expressed very clearly the position of European Solidarity on decentralization. Obviously, strong regions are a strong country, and a year of war has shown where there is strong patriotic professional power, these regions have opposed the enemy. So it's really important under the influence of the state of war not to destroy decentralization. What's more, today we have a coalition where, for example, Kiev is removed from the status of a war zone, a region where fighting is taking place, and there is a military-civil administration. Why? Either it's a combat area, or a military-civil area should be an administration. And that's a decision to make. As far as the Herson area is concerned. We are now discussing the introduction of the military administration into the Hersonian and Kakhov regions. We support that. And I want to continue my esteemed colleague's position that in these regions, most of the councils were made up of members of the forbidden parties: the PIC, Shariah, a party of the so-called Balance of Collaborators, who have to bear the political responsibility that they met the enemy with bread-force and they fled today. Regrettably, these councils actually have members of the "Serve of the People" party among the traitors. And so we ask very much, colleagues, this is our responsibility with you to conduct an audit of yours immediately in the places of all those who fled the country today is a traitor. Cleanse your ranks from this unnecessary need. And obviously today you have to pay attention to who's running Harrison today. Front City, and the city manager, she's just an unprofessional person, there's a city-run disaster. So we're very much asking you to professionally shape your staff position and your politics, and we're just going to support it here. All the good things we need to do for the force of the regions will be supported by our political power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u45	Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u46	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Hersonia, Zaporozhye, Kharkushka, Sumstina, a number of areas of Donetsk, Luhansk Region, those who have been released and will be released as a result of the clear position of our Armed Forces and the support of the entire nation, are now experiencing the most difficult moments, because liberation does not mean that it is an exemption from all consequences. Explosion devices, information about what happened with the replacement of these regions, access to areas, to separate premises -- actually requires real military leadership in these areas and in these areas. That is why it is not surprising that they took such an initiative. Our Fatherland faction supports this initiative. And I'm convinced that we need to go through all these areas clearly so that we don't have the terrible consequences of the Russian occupation that we had, for example, and now we have in the same Hersonian. The people in these territories confirmed that they, without fear of the invader, walked directly under the barrel of machine guns, without fear of what would happen to them. And now it's very important for us to protect them under the conditions of the constant shootings that are now taking place in the territory of the liberated Hersonian. That's why the faction will support this. And we think we're going to have to look very quickly at all other projects about creating appropriate military administrations so that we can combine the best forces of public movement and directly military administrations in order to put order in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u47	Please, National Deputy Sosun Inna Romanovna, Voice faction. Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, we have already discussed this issue on the committee today, and we really need to give more authority to military and civilian administrations, there are various reasons, particularly. But we have to be very careful, and I've been talking about this on the committee today, and we have to make sure that we don't abuse them by trying to take more power, by saying that they've let the locals down, they're incompetent. That's the question. Another thing I'd like to educate. I'm in Hersonish quite often and from there, and to raise the question that my colleague raised to me, it's actually a question of substitution. And go to Parliament, just say statistics, yeah, just in the background of my own charming village, which is what it's called. Since the beginning of the occupation, of the 11th, only there is a population of 300 people who have already lost eight and two children. One woman took her hands off. It's a very big problem. So I have a request just to all the people's deputies, to the presidency, to people who are directly involved, to communicate with our partners, to pay attention, to talk to partners, to ask them for help to exchange our territories. This problem will stand for decades and so this problem will be solved, well, we can't solve it ourselves. Because those who are not involved in military matters are asked to close the issue on the international stage and are now starting to do so. Because we really lose people, there is a problem and we have to solve it. Then, when we win, we won't be able to do it in one day. So thank you again for the questions raised, and we have to work together to win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, final performance, Bujanski Maksim Arkadyovich. Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich, and then we vote. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! We are now considering a similar ruling, a similar draft of Decree 8414 on the implementation by the heads of the military administrations in the Kakhovsky and Hersson areas of the Hersson area of individual powers of local self-government, namely rural, rural, city councils, their executive bodies. As in the previous case, you and I need to realize that there are very systemic problems with the organization and functioning of local self-government. Some rural, rural, urban heads, like the vast majority of deputies, have in fact been removed from the exercise of the powers provided for in the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. The President of Ukraine, in accordance with his constitutional powers, to the powers provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status, proposes that the heads of military administrations be assigned according to the rural, rural, urban, draft decrees, separate powers as provided for in article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. Of course, it is a necessary measure, a necessary action, but it is these measures that will ensure the normal functioning of local self - government and generally local authorities for a temporary period of time. were temporarily occupied territories. The "Serial of the People" political party will certainly support this decision. And we call on all colleagues in Parliament to support it as well. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u51	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, we have discussed this issue, we are preparing to make a decision. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the implementation by the Chiefs of Military Administration of the Kakhovsky and Hersson areas of the Hersson area of authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law (registration No. 8414). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:28:42]] For 318 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next. Draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of the world, the International Olympic Committee, the National Olympic Committees and international sports federations (registration number 8398). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:29:17]] For 316 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed without discussion on this matter. I therefore propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of the countries of the world, the International Olympic Committee, the National Olympic Committees and the international sports federations (registration number 8398). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:29:56]] For 324 Decision taken. The next we have is draft Law 0186. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development on privileges, immunities and benefits granted by the Organization and the Office of the Organization in Ukraine. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:30:31]] For 282 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, the need for discussion, can we do so without discussion? No discussion, huh? Dear colleagues, no discussion. Then I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development on Privileges, Immunities and Benefits granted by the Organization and the Office of the Organization in Ukraine (registration No. 0186). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:31:24]] For 317 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. The honourable colleagues, the following 8396, are the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (PA OSCE) and the parliaments of its participating States on the inadmissibility of members of the Parliament of the Russian Federation in the work of the statutory bodies of the Assembly. 8396. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. [[13:32:07]] For 331 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:32:28]] For 276 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two in, two in, two in, against, do you need a report? From the report? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u52	The report invites the Ukrainian national deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed for consideration by the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE and the Parliaments of its participating States on the inadmissibility of members of the Parliament of the Russian Federation in the work of the statutory bodies of the Assembly. As you know, the Russian Federation, after launching an unprovoked large-scale war against Ukraine on February 24, 2022, violated all fundamental principles of the OSCE. Under these conditions, we find it hopeless, futile and impossible to continue the inter-parliamentary dialogue with representatives of the parliament of the terrorist state, which continues the temporary occupation and attempts to annex parts of Ukraine's sovereign territory. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and the OSCE States to approve amendments to the rules, the Assembly's procedures, which provided for the suspension of the full-fledged representatives of the parliaments of the participating States that violate the principles of the OSCE and commit an act of armed aggression, to decide that such suspension of powers concerning members of the parliamentary delegations of the Russian Federation and Belarus should refrain from working with representatives of those countries in the Assembly's statutory bodies and to request their governments to apply the visa restrictions to members of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus, which are under the sanctions of the European Union and other OSCE member states. Dear colleagues, this is a very important step that Parliament must take. We must continue to do everything we can to isolate the Russian Federation from the civilized world. Let's do this at the level of the EU Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u54	Yes. Will there be a report? Alexander Alexandrovich Netzko. For the report, we invite the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Ms.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, this is an extremely important decision, an extremely important reference. We understand the need to support him. So we've discussed it at a committee meeting. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u56	Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, two in, two in, please sign up. Please, National Deputy Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u57	Please pass the word to my colleague Mikiti Poturayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u58	Mikita Ruslanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, 60 visas, according to our information, have been issued by the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the so-called Russian Federation delegation, 60. Twenty members of the so - called delegation, including honest war criminals. Leads the delegation, even the name uglyly called, Mr. Tolstoy, who has repeatedly publicly called for the genocide of Ukrainians, all of us, every one of us, everyone who lives on this earth, has Ukraine in the heart and passport of Ukrainians, and plus another 40 of these propagandists. Shabash is planning to set up a so - called Russia there. And they gave out visas to all, and there's no telling how many they gave to the Belarusians. So, of course, our decision by the Ukrainian delegation to boycott all actions involving war criminals, criminals, their waste remains in force. Moreover, our boycott is expanding and has already been joined by delegations from the Baltic, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Of course, the presence of these bastards in an international organization cannot be tolerated. I thank the presidency of the Supreme Council, I thank all the heads of factions and groups who have supported and signed this decree. Thank you all for signing. I ask you now to vote by the constitutional majority as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u61	Please give my word to my colleague Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u62	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The Kremlin kills Ukrainians every day. The Kremlin is destroying our country, primarily destroying civilian infrastructure to make the lives of Ukrainians intolerable. The Kremlin provokes a world food crisis. And at the same time, Russia wants everyone in Europe to go back to the business as a natural situation. And unfortunately, at some point in time, they're doing it. Because some European countries give them visas, regardless of what they are on the sanctions lists. They're allowed to participate, and I'm talking about the aggressor country of Russia and Belarus, and they're allowed to participate in all of the events of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. And you know, the cynicism of this situation is that it's all going to happen on the anniversary of the full-scale attack on February 24, 22. That is why we feel that such a situation is unacceptable. And I appeal to all of you unanimously to support this appeal, because it's not just the appeal of the Supreme Council, it's a clear plan of action that we're proposing to our international partners regarding situations where it's clearly stated that we're seeing opposition from the aggressor country during their participation, and we hope that we're not involved in the international events that will take place in Vienna. And it's also a clear signal from the entire Supreme Council that, boys and girls, I mean, we're talking to an international society, we don't have to give concessions right now to those who continue to kill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u64	Please, Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u65	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, the "Paternity" faction will support this decision by calling on the parliaments of the world to ensure that the Russian Federation is not represented at the meetings of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Russia has been fighting Ukraine since 2014, annexing and occupying our territories. Since February 24, last year, there has been a full - scale war aimed at the destruction of Ukrainian statehood. Thousands have died, thousands of people and millions have lost their homes. Russia destroys our infrastructure, kills innocent citizens, tortures and commits war crimes. And it's very surprising when representatives of some countries that are democratic think that we need to have a dialogue with Russia. Imagine how the Ukrainian delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly must be in one sessional room with war criminals, those who not only tolerate this war led by the Russian Federation against Ukraine, but also support and make all the necessary decisions for this bloody war to continue with the Kremlin's totalitarian dictator Putin. I would like to say that at the last two parliamentary assemblies in Britain and Poland, such visas were not issued and that's why Russia and Belarus were not there. On the anniversary of Russia’s invasion into Ukraine, and this will be the session, including February 24th, Austria has issued these visas and Russia may be there. Clearly, then, such an appeal is necessary. But we need to make sure that Russia is excluded from all the organizations in which it can lead.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the parliaments of its participating States on the inadmissibility of members of the Parliament of the Russian Federation in the work of the statutory bodies of the Assembly (registration No. 8396). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:43:22]] For 322 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The factions? From the procedure? Arthur Volodymyrovich is from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u67	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I am addressing you with two proposals that I request to put to the vote. Offer number one. All day today, I'll show you in the "Rada" TV slot on the telly. If this proposal doesn't get a vote, it's number two. Discussions on the decision on the referral to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly to show the full scope of the "Rada" TV network in a teletarafon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u68	Shall we put it in order? Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make my first offer. She understood, yes, the national deputy Gerasimov. Please vote. [[13:44:33]] For 281 Decision taken. We don't put the other one in. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next question is draft Regulation 8417. This is a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council to Georgia, the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union, the European Commission, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Parliaments of the Member States of the European Union on the need for the immediate transfer of the third President of the Republic of Georgia (2004-2013), Ukrainian citizen Miheil Nikolosovich Saakashvili for treatment abroad. I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the day's session Project Regulation 8417. Please vote. [[13:45:33]] For 303 Decision taken. Next. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:45:56]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's a point in discussing it, isn't there? Can we vote now without discussion? No one's denying it, colleagues? Then I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft Decision on the referral of the Supreme Council to Georgia, the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union, the European Commission, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Parliaments of the Member States of the European Union on the need for the immediate transfer of the third President of the Republic of Georgia (2004-2013), citizen of Ukraine Mikheil Nikolosovitch Saakashvili to treatment abroad. Ready to vote? Project Regulation 8417. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:47:00]] For 311 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next. On the Conciliation Council, honourable national deputies, we agreed to unify two subsequent decisions, to have one discussion, two votes. Ladies and gentlemen, before your consideration, there are draft regulations (registration number 8397) on the recognition of the private military company Wagner as an international criminal organization and (registration number 3735) on the United Nations, European Parliament, Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations, governments and parliaments of the nations of the world on the recognition of Russian private military companies by terrorist organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session of draft regulation No. 8397 on the recognition of the private military company Wagner as an international criminal organization. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:48:14]] For 331 Decision taken. At the Conciliation Council, we decided, in accordance with article 28 of the Rules, to unify the discussions on these related issues. A proposal is made for consideration of the reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:48:42]] For 285 Decision taken. What's the procedure, Irina Volodymyr? We're going according to procedure. Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we ask first to consider the draft application that was registered at the Supreme Council of Ukraine three years ago. According to the registration on Parliament's website and in general the Rules, please consider the application No. 3735 and the following application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u70	Thank you. I just want to remind you that at the Conciliation Council, where we were with you, we agreed on exactly such an order that at first 8397, then from 3735 we're all discussing and voting, one discussion, two votes, and we've already made the right decision in accordance with the Rules. So, dear fellows, I propose to follow the order agreed upon by the Conciliation Council. So let's get to the point. Dear colleagues, we agreed to discuss it together. First, there will be a word for one draft author, then there will be another draft author. Then we're going to have two in favour, two in favour, and we're going to vote for factions and groups, and we're going to vote for two projects. No objections? Then let's go, let's get to the point. For the report on the project, Decree No. 8397 provides a substitute for the head of the Committee on National Security, Defence, and Intelligence, Marianne Volodymyrsky Besugola. Please, Mariana Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u71	As a result of the discussion, the committee approved the recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the recognition of the private military company Wagner as an international criminal organization, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine to Angola and other national deputies, into the agenda of the 9th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the 9th Assembly and the outcome of the review to take a decision in general by issuing it in the next edition. I want to point out that there is no doubt as to the criminal nature of the activity of the so-called "Vagnera" group. And we will not waste time on how much they have done and are now doing against direct peace and security both in Ukraine and in the world. The main thing that we're proposing is to recognize the Russian criminal organization known as the private military company Wagner (or the Wagner Group) as an international criminal organization and to condemn the activities of members of this international criminal organization and its entities, including the government structures of the RF as an aggressor state and its individuals. To appeal to the governments and parliamentarians of the parliaments of the world to recognize a Russian criminal organization known as the private military company Wagner (or the Wagner Group) as an international criminal organization, taking into account the illegal nature of the activities of its participants in Ukraine and other regions of the world. And in view of the social demand for the proper response of the law enforcement system to the most serious war crimes in Ukraine, we also ask the Attorney General's Office to strengthen the efficiency of the organization of trial management. And we propose to the Attorney General's Office to intensify cooperation with the International Criminal Court on investigation and prosecution.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u72	Thank you. For the report on the project, Decree No. 3735 is given to Irina Vasilovni Frez, a national deputy of Ukraine. Please, Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u73	Mr. Head, respectable colleagues! We're also considering a draft decree that applies to the recognition of everyone without excluding private military companies of the Russian Federation by terrorist organizations. I would like to thank the team of authors of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which today promptly addressed this issue and brought it to the session room for adoption of the decision on Conciliation. I also thank the author's team, which was joined by the MEPs of European Solidarity, the deputy to the Voice, the head of our delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Yegor Chernev, for registering this decision on time. Unfortunately, it was three years ago, and I think if we looked at it in time, we would have taken a more proactive position in the international arena. Why, then, is the adoption of this particular decision important? Colleagues, I would like to draw your attention not to the name of the copyright team, but to the essence of the statement that it is necessary for everyone, without exception, to recognize the private military companies of the Russian Federation as terrorist organizations. Because today, for us as well as for the civilized world, Russia is not a problem that is a State-to-Terrorist and a country-to-terrorist, but we need to stress that it is not just on Wagner or just Wagner as a private company that the Russian Federation is using to achieve its military objectives in our territory. It also uses other private military companies, which today have actually turned into a private army of war criminals and mortals, who are now on our military ground. So I'm asking you to take a closer look at the subject. We demand and turn proactively to the international community to recognize all private companies in Russia as terrorist organizations, not to focus exclusively on Wagners, who are certainly criminals. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, the reporters have spoken. I ask the factions and groups to sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against. We are immediately discussing two decisions. Please, Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u76	Please, Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u77	And it could have been a little different. Remember, three years ago I was standing in this rostrum and spoke of evidence that there is evidence that the nation’s leadership is now in existence. At that time, today's operation broke down, a unique special operation for the security forces to detain and remove the Wagnerians, and condemning what might then happen in Ukraine. There were so many conversations, there were so many sittings of the interim commission of inquiry, there was also a decision three years ago that could be taken. But then, since this was the case with the superiors of the state, it was decided that the traffic, the bits, the brakes, the softening, and the winding. But if today the Wagnerians were in prison in Ukraine, there would be a very different situation and perhaps international structures that would have received all the necessary evidence and evidence of the crimes of the Wagnerians in Ukraine in 2014-2016, and would have been treated differently before Russia prepared its invasion of Ukraine, starting in 2019. That is why I want to say that we must vote today for the decisions that we are considering today. But there is a very high price for making mistakes when these mistakes are caused by specific individuals in the number of senior executives in the country. Remember that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u78	Venislav Feder Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u79	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, you and I are now considering a very important decision, a very important draft decision, and this draft decision is intended to demonstrate to the entire civilized world that we are clearly and unequivocally taking a position that corresponds to those positions expressed by our Western partners. I want to remind you that the United States has recognized the private military company Wagner as a criminal organization. It is in Project Order 8397 that it is also proposed to recognize the military private company Wagner as a criminal organization, an international criminal organization. What makes these two decisions different, these two draft decrees? Just what we propose in our draft is the determination to recognize Wagner as an international criminal organization, as the United States has already done and as other countries of the world do; the second is the recognition of Wagner as a terrorist organization. There are public legal definitions, and it's Decree No. 8397 that fits that practice, the international legal one that has already come together today. The faction of the political party "The Servant of the People" will certainly recognize and support the draft decree on the recognition of a private military company as an international criminal organization. And I call on all Parliamentary colleagues to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u80	Please, Sosun Inna Romanovna, the Voice faction. Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I've decided today to work all the time that I haven't been here. As for the private organization Wagner, I think it's the right decision. We must go on the road so that the entire international community knows what crimes are committed directly on our earth. He's doing this company. Because the company is involved in fighting not only in Ukraine, we remember Syria, the African countries where they are also committing their crimes. So our task, the whole of Parliament, is to bring this to society in particular. We can see the tools that this organization uses. And really, I think we made a mistake that we didn't go out with this initiative before, or we didn't vote for this initiative, where they're recognized by a terrorist organization. So thank you for the initiative, thank you for raising that question. The Voice faction will support this, and in turn the defense forces will destroy these terrorists on the front line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u82	Thank you. Please make the final statement. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland. Sobolev, yes, I see, Sergey Vladislavovich. Dear colleagues, after which we vote, we take a decision immediately after two draft decrees. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Literally a week ago, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe first mentioned the private company Wagner in the context of the crimes committed by this private company in Ukraine, and not only in Ukraine. This is mentioned in the context of the special tribunal, and it is very important to understand that there is a higher leadership, such as Putin, other leaders of the Russian criminal regime, but there is also the management of private military structures, which, like their participants, should be held accountable. We all understand that the history of Wagner's private company is not just a war story in Ukraine, although the crimes it commits against humanity are crimes committed by the private group Wagner and these days in Ukraine, nothing can be compared to anything. But let's mention the opposition of a private group called Wagner against a peacekeeping contingent in the Central African Republic of France. Let's mention these oppositions in Syria, where crimes were committed, and those images that passed around the world community are those images that were scary at the time. If the necessary decisions were then made by the international community, maybe now we would have completely different consequences for participating in this essentially fascist group in Ukraine. That's why our group, our Fatherland faction will support us, we're co-authors, and we think it opens the way for both the International Criminal Court and the Special Tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u84	Thank you. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. Then we vote. Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u85	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Ukrainian national MPs, of course, that the private military company Wagner is prepared people who are better prepared to say non-humans who have the right experience, military training, who are killing, who are choking, who are burning, who are raping people, and they need to talk about it, and they need to talk about it officially around the world. And the most important thing to finance them is clearly the Kremlin's headmaster, in principle, they have funding coming from the Kremlin, and this needs to be officially talked about, and we need to recognize them as an international criminal organization, we need to draw each of these inhumans to an international special tribunal, so that everyone can be held accountable for all these crimes that they have committed in Ukraine and in other countries, because they should be around the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussions on these issues. Let us move on to making decisions. I'm betting on a vote for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the Bill of Order (registration 8397) on the recognition of the private military company Wagner as an international criminal organization. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:04:42]] For 333 Decision taken. I put to the vote for adoption in general and with the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Decision (Registration No. 3735) on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Organization of the United Nations, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations, the governments and parliaments of the nations of the world on the recognition of Russian private military companies by terrorist organizations. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:05:30.]] For 336 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, before we go to our next question, I'd like to inform you. Today, a colleague of our national deputy, Larissa Mikolayovna, became a mother and gave birth to a boy again. Welcome, Larissa Mikolayevna! [[Applause]] Don't look around, she's not in the hall. Is there? Yes, yes, please. Yeah, I didn't see that. Please. Welcome! Welcome! My warmest greetings from the entire Parliament. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next question we have is 8228. This is a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on individual issues to the end of 2022/2023 of the academic year and admission to vocational higher education and higher education institutions in 2023. There are also alternatives to Bills 8228-1, 8228-2. I'm proposing to include Bill 8228 in the agenda of the day and the alternatives to it 8228-1, 8228-2. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:07:16]] For 318 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider these issues in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:07:35]] For 281 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u87	Please report to Konstankevic, perhaps. Or the Minosveti first? How much better? Why don't you give me a report, maybe a discussion right away? You don't have to. Discussion at once. Then sign up for the discussion: two for, two for, two for, please. Please, Abdullin, Fatherland. Ivan Grigorovich, please, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u88	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Kirilenko, Fatherland. Friends, what's this law about? Changes are being made to a number of Ukrainian laws, and it is proposed to extend the practice of last year and to release in the 23rd year from the state-wide aggregate education certificate, which completes the achievement of full general secondary education in this academic year, and to host vocational higher and higher education institutions in the 23rd year in a special order defined by the central executive authority in the field of education and science. The point is clear and clear: During a difficult period of war, when rascals are sly and cynically beaten in educational institutions, the first thing to do is to provide security for all participants in the educational process, to simplify the organization, and to reduce the cost of the state. And that's why Fatherland supports the government bill just as much as our committee does. And one more thing, my friends. Today, more than 400,000 teachers, teachers, teachers, professors, assistant professors continue to teach, train professionals, train patriots, cherish the future of an updated Ukraine. And now there's about 5.5 million of them behind the party. Every educational institution in Ukraine today from preschool to university is a unique destiny that in gold letters writes our nation's new history. Learning in a torn mode is online, it's offline, it's air anxiety, it's heat, it's light, it's nutrition, it's maintenance. Friends, and all of this lives, works and works. Let us honor this civil feat and thank the teacher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u89	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. Please, Inna Romanovna Sosun. Okay. Pippa. Pippa Natalia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u90	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, the Voice party will not support this proposal for the NMT for one major reason: how the NMT was conducted last year is not supposed to be in the country they are fighting. Unfortunately, when this minister can't do that anymore, we need a replacement. And speaking of personnel issues, education is now at great risk. I want to thank those teachers and wish for the strength of those graduates who are to enter this year. I'm going to remind you that education is the foundation of everything: and how we can fight, and how we can rule in this state. And I want to talk about the focus that Ukraine's history this year is excluded from mandatory subjects, and I want to suggest that next year there be an integrated test of language and history of Ukraine, because what's involved this year is the necessary professional subjects such as Biology, Chemistry, Physics, really, is important and essential for many specialties. And when I talk about the importance of education of what's going on in the country, I can't help but overlook the acute question right now that our military officials don't get enough medical services and have to stand in line often without hands and legs. And it's a good thing it's creating an electronic queue now, but that's not enough. We need to get involved and change and redirect and complete the list of medical institutions that provide services to our military because we all understand perfectly that without them this country and statehood will be gone. And how, in how many hours they stand in line and how they are given medical services, is unacceptable. I call first of all for the government to pay attention to this and find the resources to treat it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u91	Thank you. Eugene Nina Petrovna. Who's from "European Solidarity"? Windman?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u92	Yes, please, Volodymyr Vátrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u93	Vladimir Vjatrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, we understand, of course, that after a full-scale Russian aggression last year, special conditions have come up and they should be reflected in the conditions of entry in 2022, in 2023. That is why we supported changes to the same law last year. So we were ready to support him this year, and we support him in our first reading as a basis. But there is one big "but," which is called the optionality of history in a national multi-matter test. We think it's very wrong, given that the war that is now taking place is a war for identity, and in fact, in this war, knowledge of history plays a huge role. Sadly, this is well understood by our enemies. This is very well understood by Russia, which starts in occupied areas to remove books primarily from the history of Ukraine, which begins to introduce its own history courses in occupied areas, which exports Ukrainian teachers to different kinds of courses and brings Russian history teachers here. Instead, we have something completely different in the Ukrainian situation. We do not now have a mandatory national summary test that predicted the history of Ukraine. We do not have a compulsory course of history in higher places. We are now invited by this bill to essentially make history optional in a national multifaceted test. That's the wrong way to go. This is an approach that makes our state, unfortunately, weaker in the sense of its past, consistent with the ability to defend itself today. So we will support, once again, this bill in the first reading, and we will work on changes that will allow history to return as a binding subject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, "Serve of the people," Gryczuk Roman Petrovich, please. Roman Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the history of Ukraine must be binding. I don't think anyone in this room will say the opposite. But we don't have to confuse the state summary test with the national multi-matter test. We have been canceling the state summary appraisals in this room for three years in a row, including by repealing the laws of the people who speak for the history of Ukraine. All students in schools have to undergo a state-wide summary test, a national multi-subject test -- only those who plan to enter. So when you and I say that we want the history of Ukraine to be known so that the history of Ukraine is mandatory, let us talk about the DPA. And let us promise that next year we will not cancel the DPA and it will be mandatory, and there will be a mandatory history. Promise? Yes. Now for the national multi-matter test. This year, there will be one object to choose from, including the history of Ukraine. I'm more than sure that most of the third object is going to choose the history of Ukraine. For what have we made it possible for the entouragers to choose the subject? So that we can better pick up the speakers according to the specials. So, your honors, we ask you to support the entire Cabinet of Ministers bill and to pass on the opportunity to recognize the Cabinet's format this year. And the following year, the DPA, including from Ukraine’s history, will be mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u97	Thank you. Other factions. Please, Constance Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u98	Irina Konstanovic, Future Group. The MPs of the Group for the Future, of course, support this bill because we are co-sponsors of the major Bill 8228 initiated by our colleague, Larissa Bilozer. But what I'm going to say right now is that, like the Marjorie MPs who work in the schools that are in the districts, we can tell you about the response of society to cancel history not only in the DPA, but also in the national multi-matter test. We understand that reality is, we agree to this minimum minimum, which we have offered as a compromise option and committee, and the Ministry of Education and Science, and we hope that with victory we will return to the test that will require the history of Ukraine, because it is a guarantee of our national identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u99	Thank you. Are there any other speakers? Then let us go to the vote, please take your seats in the hall. Colleagues! Law-abiding colleagues! We have the committee's decision to make as a whole 8228-1. We will make these decisions in turn. I said we'd make the decision in a row. If it goes first, we'll ask you if it's against you two. Right? It's all right, according to procedure? Please put to the vote the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Law of Registration No. 8228-1, amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning State aggregate certification and the 2023 introductory campaign. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:19:17]] For 304 Decision taken. In general, do you mind? "European Solidarity." Do I have to cut the time limit? I'm betting on the vote to cut off the two deadlines for preparing amendments and proposals for second reading. Please vote. [[14:19:51]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u100	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, the following bills we have 8360 and an alternative to 8360-1. Law 8360, is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to facilitate the entry into Ukraine of unmanned aircraft and certain other goods. Dear colleagues, I propose to include this bill and an alternative to it in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:20:45.]] For 315 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to suggest that we address this issue in a simplified manner, both of which are short-circuited. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:21:08]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two in favour, two in opposition. Please write two, two, against that question. Please, National Deputy Greenchuk Oksana Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u101	Please pass the word to Daniel Getmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u102	Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u103	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we really don't know, we need to discuss this bill for a long time. The bill is very simple, a bill that was born in cooperation with our committee with volunteer organizations that import drones, thermal mirrors, radio stations and targets into Ukraine's customs territory. The goods are used today for the same purpose: they are used for our victory and for the reinforcement of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Until then, they had been imported as humanitarian aid and had been exempt from taxation. But there are some nuances to which we should be able and how commercial goods should also be imported into the customs territory of Ukraine temporarily by the end of this year. In addition, the bill, and I thank the members of the committee for their proposals, we have also removed certain restrictions, certain obstacles, non-tariff obstacles that force importers to obtain additional permits for the specified product. It's about export control. These export control measures we're taking down for these goods. The cost of this is very and very small. So when we looked at the two bills on the committee, this one and the next, we suggested that they be accepted as a basis and as a whole, that these goods go to our army as quickly as possible, to our Armed Forces. So please support the green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, Pippa Natalia Romanovna. He gives Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I will explain why after 11 months of war, we are only now adopting this law. Before that, in principle, there is now a rule that, as a humanitarian woman, enough equipment can be imported. Unfortunately, because of the work of our customs office, and not just customs, our volunteers began to face problems. It's embarrassing enough when the "mawk" that's needed for the front was somehow recognized as a double-use product for some kind of lip-help. And thank you to the volunteer front, which quickly rectified and sharpened with some of the officials needed for the front and whatnot. This bill exempts VAT, import of aircraft, binoculars, night vision devices, and much more, including radios. Above all, it releases, including non-tariff regulation, so that this bureaucratic procedure does not need to be done. As co-author of this law, I would like to thank many colleagues: Roman Gristuk, who is involved in volunteering and has helped us enough, including to make the bill a reality, Nina Petrovni Jujanini, who has added several important standards to make this bill work, and everyone else who has worked and supported it. This bill is really necessary for the volunteer movement. I hope, after we accept it, that along with Mincifre and the volunteers, we'll move on to another issue -- support for domestic production in Ukraine, there's a lot of work to be done for it. But this bill is necessary, so I'm asking very much not to do politics here, but to vote it as a basis and as a whole. And I hope that the President's Office will sign it quickly, at least not as long as it's been signed off on the credits for the gaming business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u106	Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u107	Please pass the word to Mikhail Zimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u108	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u109	Thank you, Mr. Head. Honorary Presidium, National Deputies, first of all thanks to the Yetushka faction colleagues for their word. The bill and the one under consideration, and the next one, is really very important. But I don't agree that he's on time, he should have been approved 11 months ago. Because really what goes on in Ukraine: both drones and other equipment, especially optical equipment that is needed for the front, passes through the ways of humiliation before customs and other government authorities. And I agree for the first time with the committee head that this bill needs to be approved. And "Paternity" is going to vote on it in the first and in general, and it's worth doing today. But we're talking about a government that's not in the session room today: we need to finally translate the economy into military rails and think about the industry working today to produce domestic technology. Moreover, there are many examples that our drones are creating Ukrainian citizens. You have to think about how to support them, and remember that today drones are eyes, eyes not just artillery, but the eyes of all the Armed Forces that are helping to maintain fire on time and more specifically and protect our own composition. That's why we're adopting this bill in the first and in general, and we're asking that it really be signed as soon as possible by the President of the State. Praise the Armed Forces! And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u110	Please, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. After that, I take it, Voronka. And then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u112	Sophia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u113	Today, for God's sake, we're going to accept these two critical bills. But those colleagues of this room, who were on December 4th at the volunteer forum, where the issue of drones was discussed, know what kind of blood was given to this question, where the representative of the State Department of Export Control for months did not respond to the request of volunteers to meet and consider the question of the dual appointment of the Maviks, did not answer the message, and from the deputies and other representatives of the authorities already. And when we started working on customs, especially in Poland, and why the Maviks didn't go to Ukraine, on the Polish side, the workers told us that it was at the request of the Ukrainian side. So now that we're taking these restrictions off and setting up a regime to facilitate the introduction of such necessary techniques, which are different types of drones, hoppers, thermal targets, different other optics, we also have perhaps from Parliament, and perhaps from other structures to Poland, and to the Slovak side to facilitate the process of transporting this technique and not to stop it at the Ukrainian-Polish or Ukrainian-Slovak borders, as is unfortunately happening now in the tens of furs waiting for our journey to the front. And I would like to point out that at a time when Ukrainian officials blocked all of this, today we have a new dimension of war when optics and drones are critical. I want to thank, in particular, the community affairs and the powder fund, which have brought in and handed over thousands of Coptics and, in particular, Poseidon special complexes to the fore, with obstacles as well. And I call for one-time wages, one day, to count for the purchase of hooves!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u114	Please, Voronko Oleg Evgeniovich, deputy group "Delivery of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u115	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, this is one of those bills that we were supposed to adopt not even yesterday, but a year ago. We know how important it is to use a wide variety of quadrocopters in today's war, that is, how important it is for our fighters. We know that it is not only the success of war but also the success of their lives. We know that there is a catastrophic shortage of them on the front. At present, there are some disturbances in the state regarding the production of their own drones and the arming of the Ukrainian army. But that is clearly not enough. We don't just lack our own production, we don't need it. What's being imported. The shortage of drones on the front is huge, and that's what every fighter will say.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u116	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. The committee's proposal to accept as a whole, but we're going to put it in turn, and then we're going to watch. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to facilitate the entry into Ukraine of unmanned aircraft and certain other goods (registration No. 8360). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:32:41.]] For 329 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can I put it all together? Then I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to facilitate the entry into Ukraine of unmanned aircraft and certain other goods (Registration No. 8360). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:33:19]] For 331 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, the following bills are 8361, 8361-1, 8361-d, this is the draft Act amending Chapter XXI of the Code of Customs for the purpose of facilitating the introduction into Ukraine of drones and certain other goods. I'm proposing to include Bill 8361 in the agenda of the day and the alternatives to it 8361-1, 8361-d. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:34:10]] For 321 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next. Can we not discuss this, dear colleagues? Come on. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine to facilitate the importation into the customs territory of Ukraine of unmanned aircraft and certain other goods (Registration No. 8361-d). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[2:34:55]] For 326 Decision taken. Can I put it all together? Then I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine on the Promotion of Imports into the Customs Territory of Ukraine of Unmanned Aircraft Equipment and Certain Other Goods (Registration No. 8361-d). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:35:37]] For 326 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have one more question left today. Honourable National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has received a statement from the National Deputy of Ukraine, Abramovich Igor Alexanderovich, on the composition of the parliamentary powers under article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed to consider this subject with discussion, so I am voting on the proposal for a brief discussion of the matter. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:36:23]] For 280 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. I ask the MPs and groups to sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against. Can we just vote? Let's vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Oh, no? All right, come in. Two in, two in, two in. I can't. Holy law is democracy. Please, Kultenko Artem Valeriovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u117	Please pass the word to Gethmansev Daniel.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u118	Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, Igor Abramovich has been working as my deputy in the Committee on Finance since the first day of the Supreme Council. In the Committee on Finance, we're trying to move away from political slogans, from naked politics, from professional work, from public finance building, from the reforms we've introduced since the 19th year. I want to mark his high professional qualities and thank him for working on the committee and doing a lot to make the reforms happen. Both the anti-offshore law and the abolition of the dirty scheme of so-called 19th-year squares, and a lot of other things that we've managed to adopt together. I'm not going to analyze his political views, I'm not going to analyze his membership in one political party or another, but I know that Igor Alexanderovich is a patriot, and I know that he's going to do much more for us all to win the enemy together. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u120	The word is given to National Deputy Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u121	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sophia Fedini.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u122	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u123	You know, society, it's so marrasmatic when we divide a person into two parts: political views and everything -- a good person. If a person is traveling, sharing views, representing a party openly promoskovsky, anti-government party, which were and is a PRTR, if they are banned or banned there, this party should not be represented in Ukraine in any of the governing authorities and no representative mandate. And to be honest, it's just so marasmatic that for almost a year there's a full-scale invasion, a party's been banned, and everyone who's been elected from the OPCW is sitting pretty in the Supreme Council session hall, and the majority of them are talking about constructive cooperation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, And these people worked directly or indirectly to kill our military, to capture Ukrainian territories. They're very happy because it's a feeling that someone's building them in this session hall, and the bills, and I'll remind them, four, are out of order for the day session. 8089 – with regard to the consequences for MPs after the ban on their party, 8348 – recall from the leading positions of representatives of the OIC. Imagine that the Committee on Freedom of Speech is headed by a representative of the OPCW. Thus, with freedom of speech in Ukraine, there is trouble. 7694 is the permanent termination of the powers of such deputies. 7362 is the suspension of the powers of representative bodies and local deputies. There should be no people who have worked for the Moscow Federation all their lives now under any mandate.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u124	The word is given to Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u125	Thank you, Mr. Head. You know, I'd like to support the previous speech in part of what everyone who once had something to do with the Party of Regions should be responsible for that. You're absolutely right, absolutely right, and that's a fair call that I fully support. As for the ruling that we are currently considering, this ruling shows the constitutional way out of the MPs who were once in the Party of Regions to get out of this Parliament. We don't have that many constitutional ways, I'm afraid. Because unfortunately, once again, the Ukrainian Constitution was not written for times of war. Perhaps after the end of the war we will have to review the Constitution in this part, make appropriate changes there. And today, as the only legislative body, the body that must ensure the rule of the Constitution over all laws, we must resolve all matters in a legitimate way. Today we are considering a decree that corresponds to the Constitution of Ukraine, on the one hand. On the other hand, a member of the forbidden parties, who was also in the Party of Regions, is leaving Parliament. So we're solving two completely, and in a constitutional way, a member of the forbidden party is coming out of Parliament. So the "Fatherland" faction unquestionably supports this decision, as does any other decision on mandate-making for all those who have collaborated with the "Party of the Regions." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u126	The word is given to Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u127	We have learned of this decision from David of Arahamaia, so please pass on the word to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u128	David Georgiyovich Arahami
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u129	Thanks for the trolling. Returning the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u130	The word doesn't pass twice, so I'm going to do it. It's not football, guys. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am putting to the vote the question of the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Abramovich Igor Alexanderovich in connection with his personal application for the appointment of a deputy. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:05]] For 317 Decision taken. I ask the committee, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to issue a ruling on the consequences of our decision. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have a statement of MPs, I ask Alexander Sergiyovich to carry out this sacred mission.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u131	Announcing first. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I'm reporting the creation of the 9th Interfractional Parliamentary Union "Goodwill" (voluntary building battalion) in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kradenko Vladimir Viktorovich, was elected head of this association. Welcome to Good-bye and Kradenka Vladimir Viktorovich. Dear colleagues, on December 20, 2022, there was an organizational meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Ninth Assembly Committee, elected in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of December 13, 2022, No. 2835 - IX. The head of the Counting Commission was the National Deputy of Ukraine Koravchenkova Yuri Valeriyovich, deputy head of the Counting Commission – Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, secretary of the Counting Commission – Ustinova Alexander Yuriyovna. We welcome colleagues with new responsibilities. Let's move on to the questions. 31 parliamentary requests were made for an announcement at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of these: to the President of Ukraine, none, to the authorities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 4 requests, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, 6 requests, to the heads of other government bodies and local government bodies, 21 MPs, to the heads of enterprises, institutions, organizations located in Ukraine, regardless of subordination and forms of property, no request. Enquirement by Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for information on the job and the direct fulfilment of the duties of the Ummansk City Head, Pletný Irina Grigorovna, during the period from December 23, 2022 to December 30, 202. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for information on accommodations located at: Majakowski Street, 2 (renamed Simon Petlura Street, 2) Uman, Cherkas County. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for providing information on the investment activity entity that developed the "Memorial of the Nation" project in the territory of the Umman City District Society, Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head on the provision of information and copies of documents relating to the management of budgetary resources by the Department of Housing and Utilities of the Umman City Council during 2022. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head for providing information and copies of documents on the management of budgetary resources for the administration of education and humanitarian policy of the Umman City Council during the year 2022. Aleksandra Sukhova to the head of the Luhansk district military administration, the head of the Rubižan city military administration of the Sevijerodonet region of Lugansk region, the head of the Bilovodsk village military administration of the Starobel region of Lugansk region, the head of the Swatian city military administration of the Swatian region of Lugansk region, the head of the Lysican city military administration of the Sverorodonet region of Lugansk region, the head of the Sverodononian city military administration of the region of Lugansk region, the head of the historic city administration of the Staribel region of Lugansk region, the head of the Kremian military and civilian administration of the Sevijerodonnet region of Lugansk region, the chief of the town administration of the Staribili region of Luhan region, the provincial government of the Lukhon region of the State of the State of the State. Anton Yatzenka to the Umman City Head on the provision of information and copies of documents regarding the activities of officials of the Umman City Council during September and December 2022. Anton Yatzenka to the Head of the State Security Service in Transport for information on persons introduced into the Path system during the March 2022 period – January 2023 in the Cherkas region. Anton Yatzenka, head of the Palan village council of the Cherka district of Uman, for the provision of information and copies of documents regarding the administration of budgetary resources by the Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Department of the Palan Rural Council. Vladimir Kradenka to Deputy Prime Minister for the Restoration of Ukraine – Minister of Community Development, Territory and Infrastructure of Ukraine for the provision of information on the issue of European Conference of Ministers of Transport certificates and International Technical Certificates by the State Enterprise "State Transport Research and Project Institute". Vladimir Kradenka to Deputy Prime Minister for the Reconstruction of Ukraine - Minister for the Development of Communities, Territories and Infrastructure of Ukraine for the provision of a copy of the general report on the status of implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Inland Water Transport, as well as information on the implementation of the inventory of property of state-owned transport enterprises with the identification of strategic inland water transport infrastructures and the collection of information on hydrotechnical buildings of private ownership and land of the water fund for the construction of inland water transport infrastructures (in accordance with paragraph 12 of the Law on Inland Water Transport). Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Director of the State Enterprise Parliamentary Television Council on the provision of official information on the concept and organizational aspects of the Telarafone "The Only News #UAraz" and the format of participation in it by the State Enterprise "Parliamentary Television "The Council". Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, temporarily acting as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, acting under the responsibility of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the National Police for the conduct of a full, objective and comprehensive investigation into the circumstances of the attack by law enforcement officials on journalists of the TV Channel in Yellow Water (Dnipropetrovsk oblast) on 02.11.2022, the establishment of perpetrators of unlawful acts by persons and their involvement in the legal responsibility provided for by law. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the use of response measures to violations of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine in the activities of the Director of the State Enterprise "Parliamentary Television "The Council" Pernchuk Vadim Ivanovich. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Klimpus-Cincadze and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the initiation of a series of measures aimed at solving the problem of the further unhindered activities of the State Enterprise, Alexander Long's National Centre. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Bondar and others) A total of 13 deputies) to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the inadmissibility of reducing the level of material security provided by the Ukrainian Armed Forces under military conditions. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Ariev and others) A total of 13 deputies) to the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the protection of the right to adequate medical care for Ukrainian citizens who have been disabled as a result of fighting in connection with Russian armed aggression. Anton Yatzenk to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of information on the crossing of the state border of Ukraine, in connection with the service assignment, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence, and Intelligence by Zavetniszczym Alexander Mihajlović during the period from 24.02.2022 to the date of the parliamentary request. Anton Yatzenka to the head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine on the provision of information on the 2021 to 2022 years by the State Audit Service of Ukraine (its territorial departments): public financial audit; purchase check; inspection (review); purchase monitoring by the client of the DP "The Service of Local Roads in the Cherkas region". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-06-m0.u132	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the day-to-day agenda has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation. I ask for security reasons not to spread information about its beginning. Our strength is in unity. We're still working to win. And the glory of Ukraine!
