ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today, we continue our plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, before the plenary is resumed, I would like to highlight the need for the continued enforcement of the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the beginning of the plenary session, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. Please respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that places each of you in the workplace. According to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin work on the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear colleagues, Ukraine is continuing its heroic struggle for its freedom and independence against the aggressor who is engaged in the genocidal methods of destroying the Ukrainian people. The enemy of war came to the Ukrainian land by violently taking over our territories, sowing death and ruin. The enemy kills our civilians every day with missiles and drones. The enemy of this most difficult winter wanted to kill Ukrainians and Ukraine in cold and dark. The enemy is stealing our children, our property, our history. Finally, the enemy would want to kill us with the flood, burying us all alive under the thickest waters. On the morning of June 6, Russian war criminals blew up Kahov’s GES. As a result of the demolition of the dam, which was used as a weapon of mass destruction, an ecocidal crime was committed. Population and nature have suffered irreparable damage that is difficult to measure both in size and in time. The President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, our government immediately turned to the world co-operation not only to assess the criminal actions of the terrorist state, but also to gather more together to support Ukraine to achieve such a desired victory and return to peaceful life. That is also what my letters to the President of the European Parliament, the heads of parliaments of the EU and NATO Member States addressed. We have strong support for a democratic international community. One of our main tasks today is to prepare a rapid and quality evidence base to detect, condemn and punish all those responsible for this grave crime, as well as all the other crimes that Russia is committing in Ukraine. So I would like to pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of our heroes who gave their lives in the struggle for the freedom and independence of our state, as well as to the peaceful citizens who died as a result of the aggression of the Russian terrorist state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give, traditionally, three minutes for the presentations of authorized members of the MPs and groups. I'm asking representatives of the MPs and groups to sign up. Please, colleagues. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, you know that at past sessions, the Law of First reading 8401 on Taxing During Wartime has been adopted. I was so lucky that I took part in another meeting of the Association of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. I want to remind you that this law is about to deprive FOPs of the tax system in order to oblige them to install cashiers during the war. It's a bill to start testing 80 punitive structures for business in the country, and there are two more exotic rules that if at least the amount of debt added to the value is in the reporting period, the next period will not return VAT to our entrepreneurs. In addition, there are regulations that stipulate that there can be no damage to businesses during the war, that they too will be taxed on profits, and that they will be irritated by the complete program. I want to say that the indignation of small business entrepreneurs is so great, I know that in this room it's in everyone's way, I even know exactly that it doesn't even apply to anyone, foreign pain. But I want to convey to you the emotions, the resentment, the inadmissibility of what you're taking for business. And I can tell those MPs who have not finally lost touch with reality, and those MPs who have finally lost their conscience and won't get a Ukrainian business, what entrepreneurs have put up a petition on the President of Ukraine's website that the President vetoes the adoption of this law, and better used his influence on most of Parliament and removed this shameful, humiliating, business-destructive anti-constitutional Law 8401 on Terrorism against Business, this is a new terror against business. And I'm asking all the deputies to listen. Communicate with your business in your districts and for once live and work in the interests of the people, not in your leather interests. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u3	The word is given to Dmitruk Artem Hennadijovich, a deputy group called "Delivery of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! In fact, we are shocked by the massive impact of the destruction by the Russians of the Kahov GES. We still need to see the tremendous damage and the disastrous impact on our country’s life in the long run. There is no doubt that we can rebuild the GES, make it even more powerful. In general, the Ukrainian south will change forever, its restoration and removal of the consequences of the attack is one of the most important tasks for our nation and the world. The "Build Back Better" principle needs to be implemented everywhere. Today, we need to focus on how to save our people, how to help helpless animals. The whole of Ukraine is united and has demonstrated its willful character in the desire to support its fellow countrymen. Numerous charities and volunteer organizations, along with government rescue workers, are taken from the water trap and delivered to thousands of Ukrainians most needed. That's what our team is involved in. There is no time to lose. Special pain is our citizens in occupied areas. We demand that international partners and organizations influence the invader and help the affected. Despite the ongoing war, the state finds a mechanism to compensate citizens for their damage. In May, applications for compensation for damaged housing for up to 200,000 dollars each began to be accepted. According to recent information, people have already begun to receive real payments for their own accounts. This was made possible by the fruitful work of the Supreme Council and our adoption of the law in February. In addition, affected citizens will be able to obtain compensation for the damage to their homes and to put them in new housing. The Ukrainian Liberation Group confirms its readiness for further constructive work, continues to work together to bring our victory closer, to help millions of Ukrainians and to build a solid foundation for post-war victory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u5	The word is given to Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u7	Please Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u8	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, I must have returned, as did some of you, only from the Mikolai district of Herson. Seeing a disaster, a tragedy, probably one of the greatest since the late 1980s, is impossible. And the scariest part is that we have to get the results, the consequences, actually, of this subversive, mental, Russian Federation, I think we still have to live, probably a month or so to measure the magnitude of this catastrophe, starting with ecology and ending with the Negative Nuclear Power Plant, even though Energoat assures us once again that everything is complicated, but under control. And one more time before Energoatom, I have new and new questions. The negative direction remains, as is Donetsk, one of the most important today, and Kharkiv, the most important, the most critical and the most painful. We see movements, manoeuvres of the Russian Federation military forces on the line of delimitation, and what happens there, and what fights and activities go on there. And I'd like to remind you that we've been going through more than a month now when we're not looking at the whole (second reading) Bill 9342, which concerns payments for military personnel. And for me, it's very embarrassing and very sad, even though a lot of rights have been given, neither the working group nor the profile committee has processed these changes, so far we haven't put it to the vote. It seems to me that it is the category of injured termites, students, those who are to receive the greatest help and help today, that remains out of the spotlight of this Parliament. And I'm going to the speaker, I'm going to the head of the profile committee, the entire sessional room, after the conclusions of the working group have been drawn together by Parliament specifically under this law to vote it out and not to draw it to the scheduled nearest meeting. It's the critical thing that they work with, if you work with your subordinates, what you'll answer for, and what's embarrassing that we didn't accept it, we don't accept it today or tomorrow, and it's a disgrace to all of our working groups that haven't worked out all these conclusions for today. Since there are no political issues, there are only workers left who are completely possible and adequately resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u9	The word is given to Taras Ivanovich Batenka, the Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! Our parliamentary group and the entire Ukrainian community point out that the Russian Federation has committed another crime, for which it will certainly be responsible under International Criminal Law, by subverting the Kakhovsky GES, creating an ecological disaster on both shores of Dnipra, an ecocidal in Ukraine. Today, hundreds and thousands of Ukrainian citizens are in need of immediate assistance in the occupied territory. And the 49th Geneva Convention requires the occupying State to provide immediate assistance to the civilian population, which we do not particularly expect. The Russian regime, individual and collective as terrorist number one in the world, shows that there are no red lines for him, and he has not given up the intention to destroy the Ukrainian nation, our national identity, our future. Today, once again, the Consignor’s nuclear power plant is under threat. We are convinced that the counterattack of our armies will put an end to this. We are concerned about the lack of proper response from the United Nations, the Red Cross, and other international organizations. This once again speaks of the insurmountability of a number of international structures that need immediate relaunch and reform. A few important bills, friends we'll be looking at in the next few weeks in the session room. We're looking at Bill 8401. We are now having a discussion on this issue with the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration on the characteristics of taxation during the war period. We need to find a balance between restoring the state budget to taxes and preserving the support of small and medium-sized businesses, which continue to suffer unprecedented military aggression against our country, and not allowing them to profit from corrupt control authorities in the country. The MP's "For the Future" Group has prepared appropriate proposals for the bill and calculates that the final edition will allow it to eliminate the risk of abuse by tax authorities and ensure the release from excessive tax burden and tax checks of a small and medium-sized business that is trying to survive in areas that are bordering on the line of hostilities. We also discuss further questions and suggestions aimed at improving specific issues regarding the payment to our military. We suggest that we make it clear that military servicemen should have a maximum amount of military support without any doubt. Clearly, according to the law, payments should be made to the injured defenders of Ukraine. Accordingly, we welcome the inadmissibility of a meager period of leave for military personnel: 30 plus 10 days. The state of war continues to take effect in time, Ukraine. For a long time, our military has the right to rest and psychological discharge. Ukraine must do everything in its power to protect every citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u11	The word is given to National Deputy Sumar Victoria Petrovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Porcelain Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u12	Dear National Deputies! Against the backdrop of long-awaited events on the front, against the backdrop of the terrible Kakhov disaster, we are now focused on strengthening the army and helping the people of Harrison. A few hours ago, I returned from the Herson region, where we delivered hundreds of tons of humanitarian aid, had the opportunity to communicate with the people of Herson. And I certainly admire their courage, their endurance, my integrity. We were under fire, 40 meters away from us with mortar explosions. And it was the same area where the volunteers went to rescue our residents and where they returned and brought them. This is a real sign of genocide. And I demand that, today, in the documents of the Supreme Council, we appeal to the International Criminal Court to issue a second warrant against Putin and his cry for crimes, for genocide against the Ukrainians. Second position. My point is that we need important bills in principle. And I have a question: where's the 30,000-military bill? Where's the right steering bill? Where is the bill that we voted for the wounded? And where is the bill for honoring the victims of the Pussy Tree? And I am very grateful that we had effective cooperation in the working group, but we have to finish, put them out and vote today. And the second question. Two weeks from the moment Ukraine was granted candidate status. Someone then promised that in two days we would fulfill all seven conditions. Someone in two months, someone in two weeks. Guys, it's been a year. And when I come back from Brussels, I can point out that there is an admiration for the Ukrainian army during the meetings, but there is no applause for the work that we, as a parliament, as the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian Office of the President, would do. I emphasize that tomorrow we will celebrate the anniversary of the visa waiver that I signed at the time. You've made 144 changes. Today we have to do seven this week. Let's do it. Praise the Hersons! Praise the Armed Forces and glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u13	The word is given to Bakuntz Paul Andriyovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished nationals, dear Ukrainian people! Clearly the most sincere sympathy for all of our Ukrainians who have suffered loss of property because of the destructive actions of the racists and, worse still, life in Hersonian, in the South of Ukraine. Of course, thanks to those Ukrainians and international partners, volunteers who have gone to help our Ukrainians from various parts of Ukraine in the first few minutes. We want to believe that this indignant silence in the first minutes of the international community was just a sad mistake and it was only temporary and the world is rapidly recovering, and the world admits that the enemy, the aggressor, the racists who have shown the destruction of this GES, that they want to destroy the Ukrainian people, that this act is a random act of ecocid, that this act is one of the components of the genocide of the entire Ukrainian people. And we all need to stop this Kremlin monster, we need a hard day's work: the work of the bravest Ukrainians is our protectors and protectors, the work of every Ukrainian and Ukrainian who help them from every corner of our country and around the world, the work and support of international partners with weapons. Of course, financially, of course, recognizing the Kremlin as a terrorist racist regime, of course, that ammunition and aircraft are as fast as possible. And we believe that the Ukrainian counterattack will actually put an end to the Kremlin's shameful practice of committing ecocidal crimes and attempting genocide against the Ukrainian people. The world is united, united, and we will win, primarily thanks to our Armed Forces of Ukraine. We thank all defenders and protectors, thank all volunteers, Ukrainians, and the world for their common position. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u15	Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u16	Please pass the word Bondarenko Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u17	Please, Oleg Volodymyrovich Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, on the night of June 6, Russian occupying forces carried out the planned pre-calculated terrorist act — the demolition of the Kahov dam of the Kahov Hydroelectric Station near the city of Nova Kahovka. This repeated crime of the Russian Federation is an act of terrorism and ecocid and genocide, which confirms that the racists continue to destroy Ukraine and its environment consistently, causing long - term serious harm. I'll give you some short digits of the current state. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. The area of submerged forests in the territory of 6 agricultural enterprises is basically 55,000 hectares. 160,000 birds, more than 20,000 wild animals at risk of extinction. In the area of the impact of natural resources, these are three national natural parks within the Emerald Network. Four solid waste dumps of 15 acres [15 ha] have been flooded. Today, we will vote in favour of the draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the UN, the parliaments of other states in connection with the next act of terrorism. I'd like a colleague of the National Deputies to support this appeal. Such acts by the Russian Federation of Terrorist Sponsors must be cruelly condemned by the world community. And on Monday, the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use will hold a field meeting in the Herson region to address the issue of overcoming the negative impact on the environment. Clearly, all the damage caused by Ukraine by the aggressor country will be incurred. We're going to rebuild, rebuild, and grow.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u19	Dear Ukrainians! Besides us, there's another silent witness, that's nature. This is a silent witness and a victim of this war. The forests burn, the animals die, the water becomes poison, the air becomes hell, the earth is filled with death. Right now, in the center of Europe, there's a cynic genocide, a real ecocidal of Ukrainian land that will affect each and every one of us with you. The results will be global for the entire climate system of the world. The president of Ukraine unites the world in a formula for peace, where the eighth paragraph is ecocidal resistance and immediate environmental protection. Today we are addressing all international environmental organizations, national parliaments of the world: the environment has no borders, everything that is happening in Ukraine is happening in the world. The world, wake up!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u20	The word is given to Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace". Please, Scorch.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u21	People's MP Skork, MP for Life and Peace. Honorable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The main task of today, of course, after our victory, the return to Ukraine of peace and the territorial integrity of our nation, is the social protection of our citizens and the support of our economy at this difficult time. In my speech, I would like to address social protection issues. Literally three examples. The first example. The situation is related to an increase in electricity prices. This is certainly a reasonable step, but the increase is serious enough, and if we had 30 billion dollars in debt in April, we could only imagine that we would have a hot season. In this context, the government's view is very important because any social initiatives related to budget expenditure, including social benefits, are closely linked to the government's income. And given the situation that today is with the revenue of the state budget, when we are actually 80 percent dependent on the Western, our partners, financial assistance for our budget, we need to clearly coordinate any proposals with the government. Politically speaking, for today, I think we may not have much opposition. We are the MPs, as the entire MPs are responsible for the government, and the government, of course, is responsible for the entire situation in the country, and we have to help them clearly. Another example. 590's decree on the work of the Treasury. Our representatives of the local authorities have repeatedly said that it is necessary to make changes to this regulation in order to allow for at least current repairs in education and health institutions, otherwise we will not be able to prepare for education, our education facilities by September 1, I am silent about health care facilities – changes should be made as they were made in relation to similar repairs to cultural heritage objects. And finally, Harrison. This is also a situation that relates to the situation. We need to react to the program of Edict and others, but this must be all clearly linked to the expenditure and income of the state budget and must be coordinated. That's why I'm asking the government, and I'm asking the Governing Council to return the time to the government, because we have to have a feedback. We're not just buttonheads that support the government's clear actions, but we have to work them together and carry them together.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u22	Thank you. Please finish with the Presidium and then take a break with the replacement for the performance: Dmitry Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the subversion of the Kachovsky GES, we hope to rid ourselves of illusions. We've really been out of Ukraine for a long time now, and we know that the aggressor is ready for anything, and the world is still looking for some kind of right in Russia's actions. It is now evident that there are no rules established by the Geneva Conventions, resolutions of the United Nations. Putin undermines the huge object of critical infrastructure, not counting the consequences for the world or for territories or for people. Judging from the reaction of the Western and Western world, this clear signal is heard and consciously: Putin is a threat to all. The situation with the collapse of Kahovska GES is just urgent for all the impressive figures of the ecological, economic disaster and I ask that we not forget about social, people. On the right bank of Dnipra, 32 settlements are submerged, which is about three hundred and sixty. 3,000, 625 houses. This means that at least 3,000,625 families lost their homes and now do not know how to move on. The information on the left bank, occupied by the Russians, is not available at all. We know that no one is helping people there, Russia is not allowing either volunteers or international organizations. Diplomats say that even in Syria, the Red Cross had access to 90 percent of the territory, and Russia is not letting anyone in or out. This violent situation is a global violation of international humanitarian law, which unfortunately is ignored by the world's organizations, which are designed for such cases. This is the United Nations, the OSCE, the International Committee of the Red Cross. Where are you all? Women, people, older people, children are the most affected. Until we become NATO members, we have not been given security assurances, as long as the inertness of international organizations inhibits their participation in eliminating the consequences of war, the lives of Ukrainians will remain under constant threat. But I would also like to emphasize that the crime of Cahob, including against Ukrainian children, is against their present and future. Of course, the Supreme Council will address all the institutions condemning Russia's actions, but we must also continue with you our work on bringing the Ukrainian children home. I am pleased that, before our resolution on the return of our children, against the constant export of our children to the Russian Federation, such resolutions have been adopted in many parliaments, including the recent adoption of the Icelandic Parliament. But we need to continue this work. Moreover, I am glad that there is Law 9042, which applies.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u24	Thank you, Olena Kostvena. Dear colleagues, there's been a statement from two MP factions, "European Solidarity" and "The Voice," about a break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to Dmitri Aleksandrovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u25	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, is there anyone in this room who doesn't respect the Ukrainian army? I really hope there are no such people here. You may not listen to me right now, but then you will have to answer to our defenders. In today’s system of things, there is again no Law on the Return of 30,000 to Our Defenders. And you don't have to talk about the fact that there's no committee. If there's any respect for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, let's take a break, hold a committee. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I am addressing you as Head of the Supreme Council, and I request that you give the commission to hold a committee for today's or tomorrow's session to present this bill. How many more months will we lie to Ukrainian defenders? How much longer are we going to ask that question? At first, there was a blocking decree that blocked 8312, a law that amended the "Smart Politics" team. I really want to hear words of support in this room today, not just words, but actions that would pay our defenders a decent wage. That's what everyone's been talking about today. That's what the "ES" said, "The Voice," "The Fatherland," the group. I hope that the authorities will find the strength to do what the Ukrainian army deserves. And it's not just 30,000, it's the protection of the wounded outside the state, the instructors and those who defend our land on the front today. You're not interested today. But I remember another reaction, which was 24.02. 2022. And that's when the Ukrainian army protected us. And that's when you all promised the Ukrainian army 30, 100,000, respect for what they did. It's not in this lie today, unfortunately. You can draw another month or two from that question. If you don't want to go back, find the strength to go out and say we don't respect the army and we won't give you anything back. It'll be at least fair. But if not, let us consider the issue of the return of salaries to the military at this meeting. The lines are out, the changes are made. The committee can consider the matter today and bring it to the hall. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I ask you to put this motion to a vote, let the Chamber determine whether he is ready to consider this matter at this plenary meeting or not. I know it's Conciliative, but the Supreme Council means much more than Conciliation, and they're making decisions by the Ukrainian people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u26	Thank you. I'll respond right away. I just want to remind you that you know my position on this issue. I am the third coauthor of this bill. The other one. I was the one who suggested that the last meeting vote him on the basis as a whole, but unfortunately, you were against it. Third. I ask the committee to make every effort to make this happen in the hall in the near future, since it is no longer possible to drag it off. This is my position as author of the law and as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're moving on. Showtime's up. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Vitaly Bogdanovich Danilova, the Fatherland. Hello. [[Applause]] And Paul Vitaliovich Halimon, this is "Serve of the People." Let's say hello. [[Applause]] We welcome our colleagues, wish us strong health, strength, fruitful work, and Ukraine’s rapid victory. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose that a signal vote be held before the issue begins. I'm reminding you. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Take your seats. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready? I ask you to take part in the signal vote. [[14:44:01]] For 221 - 201, versus - 8, held - 5. Well, everything as usual is a palette. It's a democracy. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Once again, I appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session that has been decided in Parliament before an hour after the end of our work. Dear National Deputies, a list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, are given to you. Let us go to his consideration. And I'm reminding you that we're in the process of considering, Bill 5322, this is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to prevent abuse in wholesale energy markets. I want to inform the people's deputies, we have had the Conciliation Council, to which the Ambassador of the European Union was invited, and we agreed that for Euro-Integration Bills we would have priority, which is that we should move in this direction. I report that on the Conciliation Council we agreed to give 10 minutes for Alexia Kucherenko's performance. At the same time, I did. Well, all the factions and groups agreed. At the same time, I'm informing you that a statement has been made by National Deputy Alexia Hotcharenko, who will make a large number of amendments to this Euro-Integration Act. Oh, for confirmation, I'm sorry. It is written as follows: discussion by the Main Rights Committee. To confirm, yes, yes, the confirmation will be put on. Dear colleagues, I propose 10 minutes to give Alexia Yuriovich Kucherenk a chance to speak, and then we will have a discussion on this. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I'd like to ask, I'm taking the first part right now, about a thousand rights, but three or four, four, I'll ask you to put it to a vote, I'll tell you the numbers. And secondly, now essentially this bill. I'd like them to listen to me. Dear Mr. Head, the honorable head of the monocoalic faction, the honorable leader of the monocoalic party, because this is a very important moment. I'm paying attention, my fellow Members, that there's practically such a flag around each of us, the flag is the European Union. And so we have this practice that almost every bill is like a flag of Euro-integration. And there's this blackmail: either you're voting the noise, sorry that we're writing in these laws, let's put it mildly, sometimes it's not that big of a noise, or you're against Europe and European integration. Dear friends, and our faction and I personally, and our leader, Mrs. Timoshenko, are primarily for Euro-integration, but we want it not to look fat. Now I'm drawing your attention, Mr. Head, you're a lawyer for education, have you read how the Head of the Supreme Council notes the Chief Legal Authority to this Euro-Integration Act? Let me quote you a few words. According to the bill, the practice of focusing powers on the same subject of the power vested in the National Commission for Energy and Utilities continues. Such a normative approach does not take into account the constitutional provisions in article 6. Discretionary powers of the National Commission. She's doing it. She's given extremely discretionary powers to perform, mandate and ability to act on her own judgment and so on and so forth. And it's still a simple, peaceful advice from the important lawyers of our legal system, who are fortunately still there, and who, fortunately, are much more aware of the legislation than, I'm sorry, I don't want to offend anyone, the vast majority of the legislators: to go back to work. First of all, I understand that this law is not going to be recast, and first of all it's going to be voted, and then we're wondering why they don't work these laws. Let me remind you of the history of questions. According to this bill on the so-called REMIT Rules, the National Regulatory Commission is given extremely powerful powers in the electricity market and in the gas market. She can fine billions of dollars there, she can take away licenses, she can lead an investigation, and she doesn't report to anyone. Mr. Head, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the National Commission was scheduled to report here by June 1st for the previous period of activity. But she does not feel that it is necessary to do so, nor does she need to do so, and she directed the corresponding letter to your address. My friends, I'm going to remind you of the success of the so-called National Regulator since 2014, when it was created by an independent decree, unfortunately, by an independent decree of the then President, who eliminated two other commissions from utilities and energy. Let's count it. It's a Rotterdam Plus scandal. So far, no one understands what it was behind Rotterdam, is it a crime, or is it a market transformation? The difference in tariffs. So far, 36 billion debt has been set aside in terms of heat utility tariffs in front of NAC Naftogaz and is offered to cover all of this from the state budget. The differences in tariffs, inadequacy of consumption, and so forth in the system of fraud have created a debt of 76 billion dollars, which is also expected to be covered by the budget. This is a debt to NAC Naftogaza and to the GTS operator. The total amount of debt in the gas market is more than 100 billion, and its left share is created precisely by the Commission’s inefficient activities. The same situation, unfortunately, in the electricity market, where constant scandals, conspiracies, disruptions, air trade, and so on and so forth. All of this is due to the so-called independent regulator that you and I gave to you in 2019 in a hurry, just like under the tree, under the blackmail and under the slogan that this is European integration, we gave this body maximum authority, but there is virtually no control and no reporting to society and to us with you. That's why the whole series, the left-hand side of my rights, was primarily aimed at empowering this body not only to control, fine, raise money, excuse me, of all subjects, but also to be responsible to society, to energy, to utilities, to the economy. Sadly, though, I was not supported by a fellow member of the committee. I don't think it was such a deep decision. But I hope and we'll do everything that we don't keep this bill and blackmail the hall, believe me. Because I realize that today it's behind it is $1.5 billion of the World Bank's credit line just to rebuild the infrastructure. But I'm asking a question, to the honourable World Bank, the European Commission of the Energy Community. Tell me, my friends, and in the 19th year, you convinced us the same way that those laws that are being passed, on the NCRECR, on the gas market, on the electricity market, on corporate reform, that they are Euro-integration. Why, then, the shameful and disastrous consequences of your laws? And that's why, my friends, I urge you to remember that we are the deputies of the country's legislative body, the country of Ukraine, and not to blackmail us with advice from Europe, advice from our other partners and other countries, not to be afraid that someone here is an enemy of Euro-integration, but just to work professionally on Euro-integration laws so that Ukrainians don't ask us questions with you: how do we live by these laws? That's why I don't want to go on with my speech, so I don't want to take too long. And for you, Your Honor Mr. Head, I ask you to make the following allowances for consideration that have unfortunately not been included in the committee. I think they're argumentative enough for a room to support them. Please, the first one is 726 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 726 amendments. I'll find her now. 726 The amendment by Alexia Yuriovich Kucherenka is edited. The committee considered it editorially, and the author insists on taking full account. Do I understand that, Alexy Yuriovich? Is there going to be a committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u29	The committee's position that we've been discussing this bill for almost two years has been looking for various compromises, including with author Alexi Yuriovich Kucherenk, to hold several committees and to hold an additional committee, to count some of its amendments, namely six rights on the last committee. And this is only partially taken into account in this case, but at other levels we actually found compromise at least on the committee level.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u30	Thank you. 726 repairs. It's considered editorially. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account of this amendment, Alexy Yuryovich Kucherenko. I'm putting 726 amendments into account. Please vote. [[14:55:24]] For-86 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. Alexi Juryovich, what's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u31	Thank you, Mr. Head. Well, unfortunately, I have to respond. For two years this bill really worked, but the authors, you know, and there was much less time for the law to work. So, with all due respect to Andri Mikhailovich, I don't take that position. I want to say that we have tried our best to work. And the law that you didn't support, it just predicted that the members of the NCRECR are responsible for individual, personal responsibility for their wrongful decisions or inaction. Well, unfortunately, you didn't support it, so don't ask yourself, why are the tariffs going up, why are the debts going up, and why is no one responsible? Edit number 735, if you please. It is the responsibility of the Controller to report once every six months and for at least 30 minutes to answer the questions of the deputies. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u32	Committee position for 735 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u33	We've taken into account another similar 727 where the regulator's report is foreseen, so it's not going to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, 735 amendments to the authorship of Kucherenko. She's been rejected by the committee. You've heard the position of the party. I'll take her into account. Please vote. [[14:57:13]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Alexy Yuryovich, number for the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u35	Then, with your permission, Mr. Head and Your Honor Andrey Mikhailovich, one more readjustment. I can see that there is no room to support it, but I still have to read it. This is number 799, which gives the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to your (well, it's ours, Ukrainian, but the Cabinet of Ministers, created by monocoalysm), gives you the right to suspend the powers of regulators on time and to appoint them without a wartime competition and six months after that. I'm going to remind you that we have the NCREKP, which is the central body of the executive branch with collegiate status. And in this situation, I am convinced that it is the government that must be responsible for the very important decisions that are taken or are not taken by the NCREKP. 799.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u36	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u37	The position of the committee is that this is contrary to the Third Energy Package. Therefore, the request does not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, the 799th amendment of Kucherenko's authorship is considered editorially. At the same time, the author is asking for full consideration of this amendment. The position of the committee, the position of the author you heard. I'll bet you an amendment. Please vote. [[2:59:05]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Alexi Yuriovich, your fourth amendment, please? Can you turn the puppy on, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u39	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer impose any more fines on the vote. I just want to take this opportunity to say that this is definitely an important bill. Unfortunately, since you have not supported the committee or the board of directors' responsibility, the "Fatherland" faction will be held in favour of this bill, because there are a lot of negative moments. And I would like to take this opportunity to address the honourable colleague of my committee, Andrey Mikhailovich Herus, and propose, Andry Mikhailovich, after passing this bill, that we and you and the European Community Energy Commission join together in working on and correcting the negative aspects of the Basic Law on the National Energy Regulatory Commission. I'd like your opinion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u40	Please briefly, Andrew Mikhailovich, and let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u41	My opinion is that I support this idea. And that's why we've taken six of your rights that you know and consulted with our European partners. We've counted them in this table, and this process has already begun, and we're continuing this process.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we've been through all the adjustments we can take into account. No one's making any more adjustments? Nobody. At the same time, I repeat: there is a letter from Alexi Hotcharenko, who will make a whole series of amendments for confirmation. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats, because now we're going to work and determine what amendments we're going to make for confirmation. Alexy Hotcharenko, your first amendment to confirm, number 3. Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u43	Thank you. Edit number 3, which speaks of insider information in the natural gas market. Unpublished information of an exact nature that directly or indirectly relates to one or more wholesale energy products in the natural gas market, whose disclosure or publication may have a significant impact on the market price according to one or more wholesale energy products. I understand that someone is much more interested in wholesale markets, prices, money and profits, but given that the Supreme Council is not considering the major issues of the military, I think we need to evaluate that. And this is not a proposal to support, not support, but to engage in military activities, 30,000, vacations and all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u44	The position of the committee on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u45	This is the right thing to do. This amendment was agreed with our European partners, with the European Commission and also with the World Bank, which has agreed to give us a half billion dollars that will go to the general budget and will be used, including for the security and defence sector. So this bill is also related to the army you are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving to a vote. You've heard the position that this amendment is taken into account by the committee, 3 amendments. At the same time, the national MP, Honcharenko, puts this amendment in place for confirmation. Andrew Mikhailovich explained the purpose of the amendment and the purpose of the bill. I'll put 3 amendments on confirmation. Please vote. [[15:03:34]] For 287 Thank you, colleagues, for understanding. The amendment remains confirmed. Next four, right? Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u47	Thank you. 4th row. This is about critical energy infrastructure. The objects or clusters of energy infrastructure that are essential to ensuring vital functions for society — health, safety and well - being of the population, recovery or destruction of which will have a significant impact on national security and defence, the environment, and the potential for significant financial and human losses that have been attributed to critical infrastructure in order adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers. It's very important. I offer to support her, of course. But, my friends, remember that the only security for the state is the Armed Forces of Ukraine, where you took the money, 30,000 sums of payments, which you don't give a vacation, which you don't solve the wounded, is limited. You don't solve any military issues, but at the same time you find room for other things. I think it's definitely wrong, so I'm going to continue to make the following adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, 4th Amendment. I just want to remind you that we can't bypass this bill because we've entered it in the previous session, and that's why this Euro-Integration Bill is giving money, including to our army. I'd like to ask, let's see, maybe we're running out of one terrorist state. Dear colleagues, 4th Amendment. She's Kucherenko's authorship, she's partially counted. Committee Decision: Take into account partially. The national MP, Honcharenko, requests that the committee make such a decision for confirmation. I'm going to take the committee's decision to take part in the fourth amendment for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:05:44]] For 296 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next amendment. I've got it written: Amendment number five. Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u49	Thank you. In fact, one terrorist state is enough, and we don't need a head terrorist yet. That's definitely true. 5 Amendments to gas infrastructure, manufacturing facilities, and installations of gas companies, transport systems, gas distribution systems, gas shelters, LNG installations. Of course, correction is important. So, colleagues, I'm offering to support her, of course. But keep in mind that all these objects will work only when the Ukrainian Armed Forces protect our entire nation. To that end, we need to support them, and we have found no place in this order of business for any question of the military. Perhaps if we were to hold a meeting of the Supreme Council somewhere in the Hourship, then perhaps one day the head would explain, and so would not. I suggest we put this to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, the 5th amendment by Gerus Andry Mikhailovich. She's a committee member. You understand the position of both sides. That's why I'm betting. But the national MP, Goncharenko, asks for confirmation of such a decision by the committee. I'll bet you a 5 for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:07:26]] For 284 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. Next amendment 10. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u51	Thank you. Amendment 10 on the terms "optic energy market", "optimal energy products", "person who professionally organizes optical energy transactions", "optimal energy market participant". So this amendment, it tells us how to use these terms, how to use these terms. At the same time, I remind you that there will be no point in this and other laws if the Ukrainian Armed Forces did not stop the enemy. And today we're looking at anything other than what's necessary for our victory, which is the guarantee of everything: the gas market, the energy market, everything else. So until we move on to military issues, until we deal with our army, we're going to be in pain, we're going to work, because this is the Supreme Council that doesn't deal with military issues during the war, no one really needs it. Please put Amendment 10 to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u52	The 10th Amendment of Herus by the Committee is taken into account. The national MP, Honcharenko, is asking for this amendment to be confirmed. I'll bet you 10 for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:08:58]] For 284 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. 11 repairs, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u53	Thank you. Amendment number 11. This is about the presentation of section I, paragraph 2, of the draft law as follows: "The first part of article 2 should be supplemented by signs, figures and the words 'Regulation No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU) No 1227/2011 of 25 October 2011 on integrity and transparency in the wholesale energy market and decisions of the Council of Ministers of the Energy Community." Friends, this is a very important right about integrity and transparency. And I'm addressing you: let's think about the integrity and transparency of our Parliament and look into the issues of those who today save the country from destruction -- our military personnel. All the other questions should be after, the first ones, the military, the vacations, the payback, the resolution of matters that are limitedly suitable, the resolution of the wounded. This should be our first priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u54	11th Amendment, as amended. The committee’s decision to take account of the 11 amendments was edited by the national MP, Honcharenko, who asked for confirmation. I put the 11th amendment in the committee's version for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:10:37]] For 285 Decision taken. The edit remains edited. Next amendment 15, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u55	Thank you. An important amendment to the registration of natural gas market subjects who are or intend to carry out activities on the wholesale energy market, maintain and publish a register of wholesale energy market participants in an order approved by the regulator. Colleagues, I would like to invite you to support this amendment, namely, to ask the question that as soon as this bill is completed, we should move to the consideration of draft bills on military personnel: 30 thousand, 30 days' leave. We're making fun of people today. Today, the most difficult job in the state has the smallest vacation of all — 10 days. That's our heroes. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine is meeting at this time for two, three, four days a month. We didn't work here, did we? Uncomplicated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u56	The 15th amendment, it's taken into account editorially. At the same time, the national MP, Goncharenko, asks the committee to submit such a decision for confirmation. I'm putting 15 revisions in an editorial committee for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:12:16]] For 275 Decision taken. The edit remains edited. Next 17th. Right, Alexyyyovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u57	Amendment number 17. Paragraph 20 reads as follows: "Approval of forms of reporting of natural gas market entities other than consumers who are not participants in the wholesale energy market, as well as the order in which they are filled in and supplied." Guys, it's important. Of course, I'm pointing out that it would be very appropriate if the Supreme Council of Ukraine were to work, as it should work, as we did in the sessional week, the Russian troops did not stand within 30 kilometers of our building, to work normally, to work in sessional weeks, to look at all the changes, but instead to put the military first. To solve all the questions of our army, and then to go, is the wholesale market, the gas market, which is where the other ideas are in colleagues, the excise on sweet water. What we haven't seen in a while. Because it feels like someone's having a war and someone else's life. That's my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u58	17 amendment of the authorship of Kucherenko. The committee is accounted for. Tončarenko makes such a decision to the committee for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:13:52]] For 272 Decision taken. Next amendment 18. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u59	Thank you. Paragraph 7 of paragraph 1 of section I of section 3 of the draft law should be amended as follows: the determination of requirements and recommendations for ensuring integrity and transparency in the wholesale energy market in accordance with the requirements of the European Union's regulatory acts, the Energy Community and the Agency's recommendations on the cooperation of energy regulators." It's a big deal. Indeed, it calls us all to virtue. For us to be truly virtuous, the Supreme Council must work in a virtuous manner, not to be transformed into a chorus of Veryovka. Though the chorus of Veryovka was at least better at singing for us. You can replace the Supreme Council with the chorus of Veryovka and one soloist it will sing better. So, my friends, I suggest we stop this and move on to the military issues that we have to decide, help the army, help with vacations, help with attention, help the money, not ignore and ignore the heroes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u60	I understand that this proposal to stop means that we can go to a vote? Alexiyovich! Alexiyovich! Alexiyyovich, your proposal to stop this means that we can pass the vote? Not yet, yes. For the first time, I see our journey to the EU resisted so rapidly. Okay. The 18th amendment, it's partially accounted for. At the same time, the national MP, Honcharenko, asks for such a decision to be made by the committee for confirmation. Please, I'm putting 18 revisions into the committee. Please vote. [[15:15:53]] For 273 Decision taken. Next amendment 20 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u61	Thank you. Next amendment number 20. Paragraph 9 of paragraph 3 of section I of the draft law reads: “Monitoring activities for trade in optical energy products and behaviour in the natural gas market of participants in the wholesale energy market for the purpose of detecting and preventing abuse in the natural gas market”. Important, my friends, the amendment, and I invite you to vote for it. And I want to point out to you that while we're dealing with behavior in the natural gas market and its participants, we're not dealing with the issue of our military personnel, our heroes, the people who defend us today every day, every night. And we are today. We dropped them off with 30,000 bucks. Today, exactly two months ago, the law was passed, and we were promised seven to ten days from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Where? It's been two months, and nothing, a lie.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u62	20 revisions of the authorship of Kucherenko. It's considered editorially. Pottery asks for such a decision to be made for confirmation. I'm putting 20 revisions in the editorial form for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:17:32]] For 274 Decision taken. The amendment remains edited. Next amendment, Alexeiyyovich, 24th Gerus. The only thing is, we have texts, we know how to read, in fact, that you don't like it. Please, 24 revisions, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I don't like the fact that the Supreme Council doesn't deal with military service during the war. I don't like the simple, banal questions themselves -- well, giving people a vacation. What is 10 days of military service today? I was on my way back from Kramator Drive Kramatorsky-Kiyev, and a soldier is on his way home for the first time in a year, and he was given a vacation for the first time. He says I live in Zakarpatta, I live the day before the Carpathian, then I live a day ago. That's a year or a week. Is that enough for a person to rest? Why can't we solve this? Why do we not have the strength, the inspiration, and the time? Why do we have the strength, inspiration, and time to meet all the distinguished guests that we can do but do not do our work to support the military? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u64	The 24th Amendment of the People’s Deputy, Gerus, is taken into account in an editorial way. Tončarenko requests such a decision to place the committee for confirmation. I'm betting on the 24th amendment, which is edited, to be confirmed by the committee. Please vote. [[15:19:21]] For 268. Decision taken. Next, 26 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u65	Thank you. I essentially want to, as they say, Mr. Head, move faster, faster. Dear Mr. Golovo, pass the law on 30,000 military personnel, on vacations, on right steering, on limited supplies, on all matters of our military personnel, on additions to instructors, trainees, structors. We resolve these issues and continue to do your favorite work of any kind -- gas, water, notaries, whatever you want, whatever you like. Solve military issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u66	Alexiyyovich, again and again, you keep calling me, you keep confusing me. I never told you, faster, maybe someone else told you. Please, let's do this within our own. The next 26 amendments, Kucherenka, are partially counted. The national MP, Honcharenko, proposes this amendment. That's the committee's decision to make. I'm betting 26 amendments, which are partially included in this text, for confirmation. I ask you to vote. [[15:20:50]] For 260 Decision taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. The next amendment is 28. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u67	Thank you. I'm very happy that we have a head with KPC experience, which certainly helps him to hold a meeting of the Supreme Council. I would really like to see the Head of the Supreme Council, who runs the Supreme Council, not that run by Andrew Jermak. So now I've signed up to release the Chief of the Supreme Council. And, honourable colleagues who are interested in this, who want not KPC, but who wants the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Parliament, please come and sign the signed letters with me. Friends, please don't be afraid. I understand, maybe Andrew Jermak won't like it, but show strength once, show the strength of the spirit. Well, you can't live like this just by being quick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u68	Thank you. I'm very glad I had the KPC experience, not the Party of Regions. But let's start with another one. The 28th Amendment of Gerus, it counts. Therefore, respectable colleagues. And as for what you're signing, you just sent it, and I immediately gave you the signed letters, so enjoy it. Please, Your Honor, 28 revisions, Gerus. It's counted. Therefore, I ask the National Deputies to support this decision of the Committee. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats, we vote, it's our main job. Please vote for the 28th amendment. [[15:22:39]] For 266 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Another amendment, if I'm not mistaken, 31. Alexyyyovich, your way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u69	Thank you very much. Amendment number 31. It refers to the issuance of the natural gas market’s mandatory decisions to impose sanctions on natural gas market entities. These are important questions, my friends. But it is far more important in our country today to resolve the issue of military personnel. And I demand that we move on. That's the most important thing we have. This is the very main task that we're here for today with you. And I'm asking that we take on our immediate responsibilities, work on the Armed Forces, for our victory, that's the main thing. And all your KVC, all your personal belongings, it's your right, it's none of your business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u70	31 repairs to Gerus. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, the national deputy of Honcharenko puts it back on the stand. I'm putting 31 amendments on confirmation. I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[15:24:18]] For 265 Decision taken. The edit remains counted. The 34th Amendment of the People's Deputy, Gerus, is taken into account in an editorial way. At the same time, Alexy Hotcharenko, please leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u71	Thank you. By the way, I see that many of my colleagues are nervous. I understand that they've probably forgotten to sit in the Supreme Council Hall somehow, because we see someone in Monaco sitting somewhere else. By the way, they don't have any problem signing them off by the Supreme Council. Friends, if you want, and you're tired, and you want to go faster, there's a very easy way to call this "national deputy of the Cabal." I call upon the national deputy of the Cabal himself now to withdraw his disgraceful decree, which he stopped paying to the military for two months. It's been two months since we raped each other, okay? Is that enough? Take your ruling off yourself, this is your full regulatory right and stop this disgrace, and then the bill will go to the President's signature, and then the President will be determined. Friends, your fate and your time, awaits you Monaco, all in the hands of the Cabal!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u72	34th Amendment of People's Deputy Gerus. It's considered editorially. Pottery asks that such a decision be made for confirmation. I'm betting 34 revisions to the editorial committee for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:26:01]] For 261 Decision taken. The amendment remains edited. Next Amendment 40, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u73	35th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u74	Oh, you've got a dash here, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u75	Tyre, yes, Tyrell.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u76	Yes, Tyrell. 35th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u77	Of course, professor, there's a tire.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u78	I just have bad eyesight, I don't sit in the trees that often.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u79	I see. I wish you had a strong vision, I wish you with your strong eyes to see our soldiers at last. Because I understand that if you can see bad eyesight, you can't see there's a war going on in the country. And when you see it, you'll know what to do, what to do, what to consider. 35 revisions are important. But I would like to point out that, according to the Rules, Your Honorable Comrade Cabal, you are entitled to a replica. Take it and tell the people if you're going to take your infamous decision and we're going to stop at it, and we're going to take it down once and for all. Please, it's all in your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u80	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, we are considering this bill today because there is really a question about this, a tranche of the World Bank. Last week in June. In the last week of June, the World Bank's board of directors is due to decide on $1.5 billion, that's about 55 billion dollars that will come into the general budget fund, including the security and defence sectors and the military. And from these costs, you can actually raise wages. So I have a request, let's vote so that the World Bank can make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, the 35th Amendment of the authorship of Kucherenko. It's counted by the committee. Tončarenko makes such a decision to the committee for confirmation. I'll bet 35 for confirmation. After that, someone raised their hand there, Vladimir Tzabal, I'll give you the right line. Please prepare for the 35th amendment, I ask you to vote. [[15:28:15.]] For 259. Decision taken. Vladimir Volodymyrovich Cabal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u83	Yes, I think Alexei Alexiyovich is well aware that the 48 amendments that were adopted in April do not return the payment to the military, which is why he became the author of the bill, the second author of 9342, after which he was speaking, which really levelled the situation that had arisen. I was a coauthor of this bill, too. Thank you, Alexeiyovich, for this. And here I can only agree with him. I believe that this bill should be put into order as soon as possible. We all hoped that this would be done today or tomorrow. Our faction will insist that this bill be considered as soon as possible. will increase vacations that will increase payment for injured, trainers, and other categories of injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u84	Thank you. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, I'm just confirming what you're saying because I'm also co-authoring this bill, and I have information that is literally going to be a committee meeting today. Without the committee's decision, you know very well that we have no right to enter the hall because we have nothing to vote for. There must be a committee decision, then we vote in favour of the committee's decision. So let's maybe take this compromise that today the committee's decision, the working group's meeting is going to be, and let's figure it out, we're going to take it to the next meeting. Alexiyovich, is this approach taken so that we can vote? I can't see. I've got bad eyesight. Now, come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next, your 36th amendment, please. Maybe you won't. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u85	Thank you. About your question and your offer. We should no longer be fed by committees and working groups! On May 2nd, from this rostrum, the head of the "Serve of the People" faction, David Arahami, said, "We need 7-10 days and we are voting on the law." It's been 40 days since the first decision was made 60 days! How much longer do we have to wait? In the Security Committee, luckily, not only "Serves of the People," and I'm telling you, no meeting of the Security Committee is scheduled for today. There's no such assignment, no one knows about it, it's all talk. My offer. If you are now, dear Mr. Head, you promise that tomorrow (tomorrow!) We're looking at a bill in the Council as a whole, in the hall, not on the committee, not on the working group, in the hall, then it could be a compromise, a public promise.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u86	Alexiyyovich, once again, Head of the Supreme Council, I don't know, I'm giving you the Rules, probably the Chief of the Supreme Council doesn't form the agenda, I can only call on all the national deputies, factions and groups to make it happen as soon as possible. So I'm asking you to solve this issue eventually, because with you again, I'm the author of this bill, I'm the author of these initiatives, and I'm also interested in finding them in the hall as soon as possible. But without the committee's decision, we can't do that. So I ask the committee to resolve this matter as soon as possible and to bring it to the next meeting of the Supreme Council. Thank you. But, I take it, is it equal to 36? The 36th amendment, it's edited by Kucherenko. Pottery asks that such a decision be made for confirmation. I'm asking the people's deputies to take your seats, these are the amendments that apply to confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:32:10]] For 261 Decision taken. The amendment remains edited. 37 revisions. Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I will also give you the Rules and see what it says. And the next thing you know, as Head of the Supreme Council, you have the right to assign a commission to any committee immediately -- not once, not tomorrow, but immediately, at the round table. Right now, five minutes to make a decision, to put the bill into the session hall, to vote in general, to give the military personnel a vacation, to pay to the experts, to the students, to the instructors, to be limited. What it says is what everyone agrees with. You're really the third co-author, and I'm the second co-author, Arahami is the first author. Come on, Voice, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, Where are those who would oppose us today to consider this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u88	Once again, I have the Rules, I don't need this gift. But as far as you're concerned, I think that's a good offer. And I think the committee will meet today. Are you meeting today, Alexander Mikhailovich? Maybe he'll have that potential, I don't know. From the question of who is blocking: Perhaps the person on the committee is blocking, and please contact him. But it is vital that this bill appear in the hall. And by the time I see it, there's no compromise. So let's go, the 38th Amendment of Gerus, it's counted. The potter puts it on the stand. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:34:17]] For the 250. Decision taken. Next amendment 39. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u89	Thank you. I have an offer. In front of us is a guest of honor, the Prime Minister of Canada, so I see on our flags that are here. I understand that it is important for members of the Security Committee to listen to him. But I think if they get distracted and go out for 10 minutes and make decisions in support of the military, the Prime Minister of Canada will say, "Thank you very much, Merci beaucoup -- in both languages, the official languages of Canada, I'm absolutely sure of that." So I'm talking to my colleagues at the National Security and Defense Committee: do it now, do it now, you don't have to pull anything! If you have a problem with it, name it. But I want to remind you that decisions on the committee are made by a majority. And if one person doesn't like something, I'm sorry, it's not a reason to refer to it, but it's a courageous decision, support the military, and we applaud Trudo and our heroes together.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u90	Alexiyyovich, unfortunately, is a democracy that if someone doesn't like something else, the whole Supreme Council sits and votes, well, that's the rule of democracy. That's why I'm putting 39 amendments to the People's Deputy Gerus. 39th or 40th? 39th Amendment of People's Deputy Gerus. It's counted by the committee. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[15:36:07]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would still have asked the people's deputies, despite all the importance of the issues that they are deciding outside this room, during the time we're voting, to be in their jobs. Dear colleagues, Amendment 39 is included. Amendment 40. It's considered editorially. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u91	Thank you. Just 40 days as from the Supreme Council rostrum was promised that the issue would be resolved in 7-10 days. Just 40 revisions, exactly 40 days. How much longer do we have to wait? How long do we have to wait? I don't understand. And I don't believe that colleagues from the National Security Committee don't have time to get together and work. Well, how could that be? It can't be. They have great respect for these colleagues, but they're definitely concerned about the army, they're worried about the safety, they're worried about the defense -- so what's keeping them from getting together? Maybe the shots are coming? Maybe they've got a flood here? No, we're not in Herson, we're not in Time Yar -- we're in Kiev, we're in a warm room, even cool, I'd say. So maybe we can get together and do our job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u92	40th Amendment of Kucherenko, edited. Tončarenko requests that the committee's decision be made for confirmation. I'm putting 40 revisions in the editorial form for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:37:52]] For 239. Dear colleagues, I'm just asking everyone for a moment's attention. The amendment remains edited. Dear colleagues, I realize that everyone is probably very tired, because our result is constantly falling, and we are about to bury the Euro-Integration Bill because of our indifference. I'm going to ask the people's deputies to fill their responsibilities, everyone in this room, and maybe before the guest arrives, we'll find some logic of compromise and we'll vote out this important bill for the state, which will give the state a lot of money, which will finance our military, our army, to pay all the necessary things for it. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Their place of work is here. Next, 42nd. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u93	Thank you. I absolutely support every word spoken by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Friends, take responsibility, do your job, consider the draft military bill, take it to the session room. They put up a dot, voted on each other, thanked the Prime Minister of Canada and left with their heads up. It's a shame! How do you explain to people when you're away for three weeks from here or how many, I don't know, and you'll say, you know, we didn't get our hands on the military, there were too many things, there were too many questions in the Supreme Council, there were lots of guests, there were lots of conversations, there were many, there were military, well, we didn't get to, you know, well, there's nothing to do with them and everything. So, my friends, I'm asking you to take responsibility. I'm calling my colleagues from the task force, my colleagues from the National Security and Defence Committee, please, the country is looking at you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u94	Please, Andrew Mikhailovich, you wanted the right to answer this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u95	Alexiyyovich, first of all, thank you for supporting these lines that are, but let's take a good look at things. This is a question of the electricity market, so far it's important for us to accept it in order to synchronize our market with the European market. This is important, including so that we can sell electricity there and get electricity from there when we need it. And we need it, including for military factories, including for military units. And we need to synchronize fully with the countries of the European Union. So I have a request: let's vote it, we'll do the army some good, for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And since we've been in law enforcement, we can't have this negotiation right now, because we're already in the process of considering this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u96	42 revision of the authorship of Gerus. It's considered editorially. Dear colleagues, I bet. The potterenko, I'm sorry, is asking about the confirmation of this amendment, which is taken into account in an editorial way. I'm betting on this amendment for confirmation in an editorial that is considered by the committee. Please vote. [[15:41:15.]] For 258. Decision taken. The amendment remains edited. 43 repairs, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear Andrew Mikhailovich, I'd love to do it, the problem is there's a lot of lies in this room. And when we were going on May 1, 2, 3, I heard the same thing, they said we shouldn't block it, we don't have to put it all on confirmation, let's work fast, and we'll do a compromise bill in seven days, tops. I completely trusted myself, I said, come on, I didn't insist on anything. What happened next? It's been seven days, 10 days, 17, 27, 37 — nothing! Nothing! That can't be right. And that's why there are priorities, with all due respect for electricity, the top priority in the state is the military, the army, the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the 43rd Amendment of Gerus is included. Pottery asks for this decision to be made for confirmation. I'll bet 43 for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:42:50]] For 255 Decision taken. 44 repairs, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u99	Thank you very much. Dear friends, I refer to all of you again, I think every man obviously has priorities in the state today. You all say, every day we say, "Glory to Ukraine!" - A hero's glory! But maybe we're not just going to say glory to heroes, but we're going to show respect for these heroes -- respect, once again, respect for the basics and vote for the questions so they can go on vacation. You see your families, and they haven't seen them for a year, people sit around for a year, they don't see their family and loved ones, they don't see their dad in a year. Can't we just let them go on this miserable vacation? Can't we give them a little more? Chief Chief of Staff at the Conciliation Board meeting on my question, do you support the increase in vacations, said, yes, I support. What else do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, 44 amendments. 44th, right, dear colleagues? It's considered editorially. This is the authorship of Kucherenka. Pottery asks for such a decision to be made for confirmation. I'm putting 44 amendments on confirmation. Please vote. It's edited by the committee. [[15:44:41]] For the 250. Decision taken. The edit remains edited. Next amendment 46.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear friends, another question we have to solve is the right wheel. Maybe you're not helping the military, although I hope you're helping everyone like the whole country. Today the military needs cars. Used pickups are one of the most important issues. I know it personally. The potterenko centers have already passed 70 cars. I'm sure there are friends here who've been handed over more. So tell me, why don't you vote in favour of allowing the registration of a right-wing car? Today, the bullies, the volunteers, the parts can't be taken, they can't be accounted for. If he puts himself in fear and risk, he takes part, he can't drive, he can't use it. What is the difficult question at the time of the military situation to allow the armed forces to use the right wheel? Is that complicated? Explain to me why you don't care about everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u102	46 Amendments taken into account are edited by Gerus. Pottery asks that this decision be made on an editorial basis. Please vote. [[15:46:22]] For 246 Decision taken. Next amendment 47. Edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Council, when you were looking at your payroll, when you came up with the money for the card, what number did you see there? Did everyone remember? And now I'm telling you, I've been sent a striker, and the striker sent me a screen shot from his Privat24 to 443 bracelets a month. Once again, 443 bracelets per month is the entire salary of a human timer. He's not released, he's demobilized, he's in my law, he's not considered in the Supreme Council, he's not paid. Is that people being bullied? The bill that we talked about is at least 6,000 dollars a bonus to at least have a minimum. This can't be solved, this is such a huge problem, is it this crazy money? There's money on the national marathon, and you want money, and you don't have it on these people.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u104	47, edited by Kucherenko. Pottery asks for such a decision to be made for confirmation. I'm betting on 47 amendments to the committee's version for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:47:58]] For 239. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you again to approach the workplace. The 239 amendments were taken into account in an editorial way. The next 48 amendments are edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u105	Thank you. Thank you, I'm going to continue the potion. I think the Prime Minister of Canada, Trudo, in Canada, would say that those heroes who gave up their health for Canada, we're going to pay 30 Canadian dollars a month, I think he would stop being Prime Minister of Canada. Restricted. Restrictedly fit are people who are injured, who have been treated and, unfortunately, this is a serious injury. They are not fully healed, taken out of state, and received for a month only at 700, 800, 900 dollars a month by people who have already given up their health for their country. Do you have other things more important -- the gas market or something, electricity? Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u106	The 48th Amendment of the People's Deputy, Gerus, is taken into account in an editorial way. Tončarenko puts this decision on an editorial basis for confirmation. I'm putting 48 revisions in the editorial form for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:49:41]] For 243 The amendment remains edited. The next 49 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u107	Thank you. I see a lot of surprised faces in the Supreme Council, they didn't know the numbers I'm talking about. Then I'll continue. Courses, those people that we say are officers -- the future of Ukraine, our young people with burning eyes. With hot eyes and 400 bracelets of cash! 400, come on, 500, come on, 600 bucks a month! One more time, one more time! We're all parents here, you'll give your sons and daughters 400-600 bucks a month? We're giving this to the students who have to become officers and save the country. In this unfortunate bill, which the National Security Committee can't consider, for some reason it's so difficult to just add 2,000, 350 dollars. It's nothing, it's very small, but it's something compared to the bullying that is today. Well, is there a conscience?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u108	49, edited by Kucherenko. Pottery asks for this decision to be made for confirmation. I'm putting 49 revisions in the editorial form for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:51:24]] For 222 Well, congratulations, the first correction that went off. Thank you all for voting yellow. Dear colleagues, look, I can ask the National Deputies to step out of the government zone, get out of other places and take their places. 49 Amendment rejected. There's a big adjustment, a good one, a powerful one. 50 revisions, it's counted. Please. I'm asking the MPs to take your seats. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u109	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Guys, this is a disaster. You know, I think that the more important problem that took off military vacations was military money, the respect for the military. What we're going to do is we're going to survive, and if we're going to take off and we're not going to be able to support our Armed Forces, then we're going to be able to transfer and use all of our amendments here, these papers, for direct purpose. The main thing is the army. Please don’t throw the bill away, don’t throw away the next one, or anyone else has that desire. Take a look at the bill, and I urge you to consider it. By the way, another offer of compromise to Mr. Head. There's my 30-day vacation bill, registered in the Supreme Council. Now we're looking at, we're voting in general, five sentences, five dates, and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u110	50 repairs. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. 50 revisions to the authorship of Gerus. Please, it's counted by the committee. Stand by for confirmation, please vote. [[15:53:50]] For 259. The amendment remains counted. Next 52th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u111	You see, we're together, we've got the power to keep pushing the button, okay. Let's move on. Once again, no one's talking about terrorists, no one's talking about anything else. If you'd like to do anything for the military, please. You don't want this bill, you don't want money, I don't know what you don't want there, you're afraid, I don't know what. Please, in the Supreme Council, there are two bills registered for the authorship of the national MP, Honcharenko. The first is a vacation of 30 days. The second is the right rudder. These are bills that consist of a few words, they're very small, they're registered. Now let's put them into the agenda, vote in general, they're very simple, there's nothing to talk about at all. He's in charge, he's in charge, he's in charge, all the factions in favor. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u112	52 repairs to Gerus. It's considered editorially. Pottery makes this decision for confirmation. I'll bet 52 revisions to the editor, which is edited for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:55:27]] For 257 The amendment remains edited. 53 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u113	Dear friends, as you can see, I am addressing those who may be able to see it somewhere. Because we have, I don't know, colleagues, the national marathon broadcasts the Supreme Council at night. It's not good night, baby. They only show us at night, at daytime, or maybe it's the New York Prime Time, and I understand that there are more important things in the day than we and our unfortunate meetings. So if anyone sees this, I'm pointing out that I'm offering compromise after compromise, the goal is to do something for the military! Do something for the military now! Don't take 10, 30 days. Do not create working groups. I want to see, the military is told, go attack the position. And he's going to say, let's get a working group here with a platoon, pick up a working group, talk to the committee, and then, maybe we'll go somewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u114	53 revision of the authorship of Gerus. The committee is accounted for. Dear colleagues, Hotcharenko is putting this decision on record. I'll bet 53 a confirmation amendment. Please vote. [[15:57:04]] For 260 Decision taken. The next 54 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u115	Thank you. As you can see, there's a voice screaming in the desert. Well, it doesn't have to be just the Supreme Council of Ukraine, well, that's not all. Well, you don't need these questions, you don't need vacations, you don't need rudders. You should. It's about sharing money. That's how the law has a way of dividing it. Aren't you going to share a military vacation? You won't. Can't you share the right rudder? You won't. Well, then why do it? An unnecessary question. The instructors are the people who have the highest qualifications today who were deprived when they took the '30', and they took the '30'. And the people in the ranges are the best people. We can't even pay them some extra, so we don't pay them back. There's 10,000 in the bill, and at least 20,000, yes, as much as that, let's add. No, no, no, no. Nobody needs that either. Friends, they don't win!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u116	54 amendments, it's counted by the committee. Tončarenko makes this decision for confirmation. I'm putting 54 amendments on confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:58:39]] For 261 Decision taken. The next amendment is 56.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u117	Yeah, friends, well, you see, we keep moving, now we're gonna be out of the military again. The point is, there will be a distinguished guest. I am very happy when guests come to Ukraine, and more so are real friends of Ukraine such as Prime Minister of Canada, Mr. Trudo. But there are probably more important things than to meet, applaud, thank you. And I think Mr. Trudo would understand perfectly if you said, you know, we're going to be very busy right now because we need to help the military because we have to beat Russia because we have to stop this horde. And Trudo would be the first to say, I understand, with you, ready to support. I'm sure in the Canadian Parliament, the issue of military assistance would have been resolved immediately, in the Ukrainian Parliament -- well, no, it's hard, not before that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u118	The 56th Amendment of Gerus is taken into account in an editorial way. Pottery makes this decision for confirmation. I'm putting 56 revisions in an editorial committee for confirmation. Vote please, 56th. [[16:00:13]] For 265 Decision taken. 57 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u119	Thank you. By the way, you know, I think our military is better supported by the U.S. Congress, the U.S. senators, the Canadian Parliament MPs, the Bundestag, the l'Assemblee Nationale is the French Parliament, the Senate of France, the European Parliament. They're much more interested in our military because they're giving money to weapons, to combat, to support the military. And the Ukrainian Parliament is busy at this time, well, busy, well, important things. Look, we're in the order of today's Kuala Lumpur Summit Declaration, well, that's the most important thing. Well, what are we up to? Where are our military? The Cartagena Declaration, Kuala Lumpur, the postal link -- we have these important things.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u120	57 amendment of the authorship of Kucherenko. It's counted by the committee. The potter asks for confirmation. I'll bet 57 for confirmation. Please vote. [[16:01:41]] For 259. Decision taken. The amendment remains to be taken into account. 59th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u121	I want to thank you, Canada said that it had made an extra $400 million. This will be Mr. Trudo's standing ovation. Let's give it up, guys, it's the right thing to do. And while Canada is busy with our troops, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will today review the draft Law on Ratification of the Nagoya Kuala Lumpur Additional Protocol on Responsibility and Compensation to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety. It's also very important -- it's a law to stimulate the development of the oil industry, like oil is being poured here. Of course not. A very important topic is government market surveillance of non-food products. It's extremely important. Collectively charged activity, very important. Ratification of the GUAM Convention of States Members of the Organization for Democracy and Economic Development! GUAM, my friends!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u122	Dear reporter, I would still ask you to be closer to the Rules that I will certainly give you. In reporting on the amendment, I would ask essentially, not in the daytime. Thank you. The 59th Amendment of Gerus is counted by the committee. Pottery makes this decision for confirmation. Please vote. [[16:03:24]] For 265 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. 61st Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u123	59th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u124	We just voted. Be careful. So if you were to report on the amendment, I think it would be more meaningful. 61, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u125	61st, thank you. I was going to say, Mr. Head, you told me we don't need to read them, we can read. And I stopped reading. But I realized that there was a need to read again. I'll read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u126	You don't need to read, you need to read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u127	Operation of wholesale energy products without registration as a participant in the wholesale energy market. Correction of the People’s Deputy, Gerus Andriy Mihajlovich. I understand it's an important thing, maybe on the same level as Kuala Lumpur and Cartagena, but I think soldiers are more important. And we'll see what the Supreme Council thinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u128	61 amendment of the authorship of Gerus, it is considered by the committee. Pottery makes this decision for confirmation. Please vote. [[16:04:50]] For 258. Decision taken. Yes, next amendment 142.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u129	Friends, we're seriously moving forward, regulation 142. It tells us that paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 should be put in line with the following wording: From 3,000 to 100,000 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens, households operating in the natural gas market, according to legislation in the field of the functioning of the natural gas market. Guys, I get it. I said, where we share money, there we can. So let's divide the military personnel, limitedly fit, waistcoats, cadets, instructors. Let's add, let's go face to face, not to different markets. I understand it's more interesting and pleasant, but we have to win.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u130	142 readjustment, accounted for by the committee. Ukraine’s national deputy, Alexei Honcharenko, puts on the stand for confirmation. Request for a vote. [[16:06:18]] For the 250. Decision taken. The edit remains counted. Next line is 143. Please, Honcharenko Alexiyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u131	Guys, we're losing the best while there's no Supreme Council head. But I'm sure of course he's gone on very important matters. But I want to say that as long as there is no Supreme Council Head, I will still remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, whoever holds its meeting, is the head of the Supreme Council of Stefanchuk. By the way, friends, join in signing that he needs to be retired because we don't deal with military issues. But the first deputy, Kornienko, who may then be the speaker, will have a new speaker. And then I'd like us to remember that the main thing is the military, that we have their questions to consider. And if we don't look at their questions, we don't need to be here at all. We can leave the Veryovka choir here instead of ourselves and split up, it'll be a lot more fun. The choir of Veryovka will sing the anthem of Trudo better than we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u132	Please. Committee editing is included. I'll bet you a vote. Amendment number 143. Please vote. [[16:07:49]] For 255 Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. The next amendment asked to be considered by a colleague of Honcharenko, 466 revisions. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u133	Thank you. By the way, it's the money bill again. Replace 6 million with 27. Friends, these are important things, but the most important numbers that are in the state today are the figure 30. $30,000 for all military personnel! 30 days off for everyone! 30 is the main number in the state. 30! Once again, when we vote this number, we do our thing, and when other numbers, we do it wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u134	Please, number 466 is counted by the committee. Please vote. [[16:09:04]] For 246 Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. Next line 712. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear friends, I'll repeat it. There's the numbers again, the prime number 30. I just want to, you know, you know, maybe even calm down and just for a second, just for a second, I'm asking you all to imagine that you don't see your family all year, you don't see them, you're in the trenches, you're being shot, your loved ones die with you, your friends, and all you want is to go home and look at your wife, hug your kids, see your mom. Tell me, is that okay? Tell me, is it such a great desire for people to save us so that we can just take it and do it? Whether it takes months to torture others so that someone, God forbid, may not live to see this holiday.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u136	Amendment number 712 is counted by the committee. The national MP, Honcharenko, is asking for confirmation. Please vote. [[16:10:37]] For 226 Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Next line is 713. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u137	Thank you. I really don't get it. Well, I'm saying, I'm sure you're also going to the military, but you're talking to them, you definitely have friends there, someone has relatives there. Well, don't you understand that what I'm saying right now is true!? That it's not a fantasy that it's not crazy out there, that it's simple things just to support these people? Well, you should come back and look them in the eye! You're going to come to your district, you're going to go, you're going to meet the mother of a soldier, you're going to look and say, you know, we're going through, thanks for the service, God forbid, we've voted to add some money, we've voted to give him a vacation to come to you, we've voted for his minimum rights, we've shown respect. Do you not have that desire? I don't believe it, it can't be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u138	I'm betting on the vote number 713. The committee considers Alexeiyovich Honcharenko to be the one who proposes to put her on the stand. Please vote. [[16:12:15]] For 258. Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. Amendment 714, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u139	Guys, what can I say? I want to say again that the world must have split up into two. There's a world where Monaco is, there's a world where there's a foreign shipping system, there's a world where there's a normal decent salary, there's a world where the job is not a trench, but there's a world where 400 dollars is paid, there's a world where 800 dollars after you've lost your health for the state, there's a world where you've come, gone to volunteer service, and today you don't know when it's going to end. You've been fighting for 15 months, you've done your duty honestly, you just want to know if that day will come when you go home. When? When will this day be? Why aren't we discussing the issue of demobilization? In the Supreme Council, my 18-month bill, please suggest 24. Well, let's give people hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u140	I'm betting on the vote number 714. She's listed by the committee, National MP Hotcharenko's asking for confirmation. Please vote. [[16:13:51]] For 262 Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. Line 715, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u141	Thanks, guys. I see that, you know, they say, well, they can't hear you, they can't hear you. No, I'm gonna knock on that door until the last, I'm gonna say, remind you. I am sure that when people see this meeting, they will have many questions for you, fellow believers, and they will ask you these questions. I propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, finally, that we start working where we need to. Okay, the Supreme Council is sitting in Gruszewski, 5 under the Constitution. I propose as a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Mrs. Rocksallan Podlas, head of the committee, that our committee meet in Time Yar and consider the issue of military personnel' financial security. I'm going to the Committee on Ecology -- an exit meeting in Herson. Where else is he going today, anyway? Perhaps then it will become more clear, perhaps two worlds will unite.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u142	Thank you. Mrs. Podlas, will you answer the line? You won't. Then I'm going to vote number 715. It's counted by the committee. The national MP, Goncharenko, is asking for confirmation. Please vote. [[16:15:31]] For 260 Decision taken. Edit included. Next line is 718. People's MP Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u143	Friends. Yes, thank you. I'm still talking. Mr. Zavodnevich, head of the Committee on Safety and Defence, I would like to ask you to hold an outgoing meeting of the Committee on Safety and Defence in Bilogora. Please, I think it's going to be a lot more obvious that you can make a decision quickly, there's a little bumpy and there's a little bit clearer that you can take a vacation and look at the money and the support of our military. I'm making a suggestion, according to the Rules, you have the right to a replica, great, I think it's an offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u144	Please 718 correct. The committee is an editorial committee. So I'm betting on confirmation by the committee. Please vote. [[16:16:41]] For 252 Decision taken. This is left to be counted in the Committee's editor. 719 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Toothless, Mrs. Toothless, are you with us? I'm worried. Without you, we can't. As Secretary of the Committee on Safety and Defence, please meet with the committee immediately in Audio. Please, I'm addressing you, I'm sure you'll respond. You have the opportunity to answer now. It's a meeting of the Security and Defence Committee. You're the secretary, suggest this. I think it might be a way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u146	Mrs. Toothless, the line. Please, reply, Mrs. Bezaugla.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u147	Thank you. As the secretary of the task force and really a member of the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee, I don't think anyone will deny the circle as much effort as possible to prepare the bill for second reading. A committee meeting will be held immediately after the working group meeting and a bill will be tabled for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Mariana. So it's 719. The committee is an editorial committee. I'm betting on the request of Deputy Potterenck to confirm it in an editorial that took her into account by the committee. Please vote. [[16:18:17]] For 256 Decision taken. Edit is part of the committee. Edit number 720. Please, Alexeiovich. Are you working?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u149	I have to work. Not without me. No way. Dear friends, here we go. Mr. Mikola Tishchenko, I offer you, you are also on an important transport committee. I'm not going to propose a travel meeting in Thailand, I'm going to propose an exit meeting of the Transport Committee now -- Berislav, in Dniper, to see what's going on, what's going on with transport is an important question. The Transport Committee, Berislav, is important. You can have Herson. I'll give you the names of the cities. You better know the geography of Thailand, I know a little bit of other things, I'll explain everything. I'm sure you'll respond. By the way, Mr. Mikolo, Lucy's there, too. There's Lucy, so you'll feel like a fish in the water. Please, I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u150	Please, Tishchenka's not in the hall, is she? Mikola Mikolaiovich, will you take the line? Please, Mikola Mikolaiovich Tishchenko. The replica comes from the place, Mikola Mikolaiovich, from anyone, yes, you can go right there. Please, yes, give the word to Tishchenko. He's from somewhere else. Give me your word from somewhere else. Do we have the technical ability to give the word out of place? Where are you, Mikolayovich? No, what's it say? Kultenko. Get Tishchenka out of the place, please. These are the features of the "Race" system, and we apologize for the inconvenience. Is there any chance of that?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u151	Thank you for the word. First of all, my lord, I don't even remember my last name because I don't want to remember that he's breaking up such important work in Parliament today, tearing down the entire team, the President's strategy, and not letting us, parliamentarians, do our duty. So please get out of politics, because you belong in the annals of history today. Do you understand that? Right where you came from. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u152	Please, I've already forgotten, frankly, what a readjustment, what a battalion we have. Probably 720. Yeah, 720? 720. Then I'll put it to a vote. It's taken into account by the committee in its entirety, and I'm asking for confirmation, at the request of the People's Chamber of Commerce. Please vote, 720. [[16:21:35]] For 253 Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. Next line is 721. Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u153	Dear Mr. Mikola Tishchenko, I understand that Mr. Stefanchuk should be given the Rules, and you should give him a dictionary of foreign words. I understand you have some other associations with the word "analyze." It's free, it's free. If you said I'm in history annals, it's a huge thank you, and I'm very pleased. In fact, I haven't earned it yet, of course, but I'm going to try and work -- that's the highest thing that can be, an honor. So my proposal to you, after all, to hold a meeting of the Transport Committee, not in Thailand, but near, near, directly, it's in power. Once again, I propose to the city. There are still big cities, Dnipro is an important city. Not only does Carpathia need saving forests, it needs to be done all over the country. The most important thing to do is to save the forests near Bahmut, where there is the greatest need and need, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u154	Please, Mr. Tishchenko, a replica, yes? Please, Mikola Mikolaiovich, your legal right to a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u155	It is a pleasure, and it is a pleasure, for us to have a new forestry man who is very understanding about the problem of the forest. Today we have an environmental minister, you have a lot of questions, you can ask him. That's why I'm taking the word of Mr. Korneyenka. Mr. Kornienko, please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u156	Thank you, Mikolayovich. I don't have the right to repeat, unfortunately, but we can, yes, I will continue with your permission. Please, Andrew Mikhailovich, you wanted the committee's position at least once a ten-line sound, right? Yes, it would be desirable.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u157	Come on, we're going to go back to the right-hand side, because when you say ten last names and everyone takes the lines, we're going to have a long discussion. Let's not do things like this. Let's do the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u158	Amendment number 721, counted by the committee. I'll bet you a vote of approval at the request of the People's Deputies of Honcharenko. Please vote. [[16:24:14]] For 261 Decision taken. The edit will continue to be counted. 722 law. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u159	Dear friends, we have an event with you, our government has come to us, I welcome you, it is very nice. I'm glad to see all the ministers, I'm glad to see all the government. The only request I have to the government, please come to us more often, not necessarily when the Prime Minister of Canada is here. I realize that it is important to meet the Prime Minister of Canada, but there are still Ukrainian national deputies. We're a parliamentary-presidential state, we've missed you very much. Where's "the hour of questions to the government"? Do you think we no longer have questions about government, or should we not ask them? I'm sure you've missed talking to us, we've missed talking to you, we have a lot of questions. 30,000 military personnel, vacations, volunteer issues. What did you decide about Kabmini, which of the volunteers took 19.5 percent? Explain here and now, stop, immediately, support important things. We're glad to see the government, come more often.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u160	From the post-voting procedure. I'm betting on the vote number 722, it's counted by the committee. The national deputy of Honcharenko is betting on confirmation. Please vote. [[16:25:57]] For 259. Decision taken. Edit included. Camelchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, please note how many minutes we are voting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u162	And we'll listen to a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u163	For the committee's votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u164	Take It From the Procedure
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u165	I invite our colleague Hotcharenko to join the Energy Committee if he has such interest in the field. And what I'm asking you to do is figure out how much electricity we've spent, and compare it to those cars that Honcharenko didn't transfer to the front of the military. Thank you for that, of course. But I think in this hour the discussion is completely unnecessary from a colleague of the Pottery, who, by the way, exhibits himself well in the areas of Strasbourg. I want to tell you, Alexei, please give it essentially like Strasbourg, not like Ukraine, when it's turning you into something that's not clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u166	Thank you, but it's not a procedure, Mr. Yuri. Next time, let's do more. Do you have a procedure, too? Yes, Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" calls primarily for the Presidency to abide by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u168	Let's give it a try.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u169	We are looking at a very important European bill. I would like to point out that without the voices of "European Solidarity", no amendment would have now passed. That's why we're saving this bill today from failing in the hall. And during the consideration of the bill, there's no replication of the procedure. That's the first one. The other one. If the name Kozir is on the board, it should be Kozir, not Velour and Kozir. So, please, we ask you to follow procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u170	Thank you. I would then like to meet your request, Irina Volodymyrna, to respond immediately, to Alexia Alexiovich Potterenka. Can you hear me, Alexeiyovich? Article 52(5) of the Rules, I would like to quote you. If the speaker does not comment on the matter under discussion, or if he does not speak on the basis of the word given to him, the chairman of the plenary will warn him about it, and if he continues to violate the requirements of the Rules, he will deprive him of his words. Therefore, on the basis of Rule 52, paragraph 5, of the Rules, I warn you of systematic statements not concerning amendments to Law 5222. [[Applause]] Thank you. We're moving on to the next 723. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u171	A replica of Camelchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u172	A line, plus a line. Give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u173	Thank you. I've got a line on Camelchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u174	Yeah, and 723 straight away.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u175	No, it's not. It's not about editing right now, it's a line. Camelchuk mentioned my last name, a distinguished colleague, and said that you see that I've spent too much electricity today, that I'm forcing people's deputies to work. There's a first offer, and let's close the Supreme Council. That'll be great. We'll save all the electricity in the state. You don't have to pack up, you don't need electricity. It's cool! The other one. I'm willing to pay my own bill for the power of our building at the time that I'm taking out our military personnel' vacations. I'm ready. Come on. Let's do it for 30,000, for 6,000, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it for somebody to pay you money, so you're lighted up, I'll do it, I'll find it. I'm sure I'm supported by millions of Ukrainians who want to see their father, who want to see their husband, who want to see their wife, and you won't let him do it, and you're talking about Strasbourg. If you were in Strasbourg, you'd be ashamed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u176	Please, number 713 is counted by the committee. Excuse me, 723. Alexiyovich asks for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u177	Yes, number 723. We wanted to.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask for 723 revisions as very important. Let me ask you a little bit of attention, and I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine participate in the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. Hello. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the people of Ukraine, at the beginning of our session, I mentioned the strong support of the democratic international community, and this is not an accident. The plenary is attended by some of the most loyal and trusted friends of Ukraine: Prime Minister of Canada Justin Trudo, Vice Prime Minister and Finance Minister of Canada Christ Freeland, as well as other representatives of the distinguished Canadian delegation. Hello. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Prime Minister of Canada! Before inviting you to speak, allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to thank you for your leadership, consistency and steadfastness. Since the first day of the full-scale invasion of the Russian Federation, the Canadian community, much of which is made up of Ukrainians, has taken a firm stand on our side in the struggle for freedom and independence. You have extended your brotherly support to Ukrainians and Ukrainians, and we will never forget it. Thank you for the gun. Thank you for each of Canada’s Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your political, financial, and humanitarian assistance. Thank you for the sanctions against the aggressor. Thank you for believing in our common victory. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The Prime Minister of Canada, Justin Trudo, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u179	My dear friends, congratulations! For me, it's a great pleasure to come back to you, very happy to see all of you, and it's very nice to be welcomed back. We know that the Canadians are not only there, but all of us are deeply, not only contentment, but also honor the signs that you are accepting us today. And please consider, with respect to the presence of two official languages in Canada, I will address you both in English and French. And standing here, in front of you, in the anger of Ukrainian democracy, my thoughts are primarily focused on the benefit of the Ukrainian communities that you represent as you serve. To the respect of Ukrainian brave soldiers, young scouts, who sell homemade toast to raise money on drones. I pray for farmers who continue to cultivate the land even when the neighbouring state threatens to fire and bombard them in order to grow bread. I express our gratitude to doctors and nurses who continue to treat patients even when their hospitals are bombed. And they're all going to believe in one simple idea, which is that Ukrainians are free to choose their own future. [[Applause]] In my home, I always say that democracy doesn't happen because of an accident. And that is why we continue our efforts to support Ukraine. I am convinced that Ukrainians know this better than anyone else, just as I am convinced that efforts, courage and self-sacrifice, especially if multiplied together, since they declared their independence more than 30 years ago, and I am proud that Canada was one of the first countries to recognize your independence back in December 1991. The courage and self-sacrifice ten years ago, during the Eromaydan and the Dignity Revolution, after the then President refused to sign the Agreement with the European Union -- a treaty that could be a fundamental one, which was largely accepted here in the House of Parliament, and also the courage with which you met the brutal aggression of Putin, and with which you took up the fight. Intruding in Ukraine, Russia has corrupted the principles and rules on which UN principles have been built. Peace, stability and prosperity are what the world has had for over 75 years after the last war -- now distorted by Putin's brutal and vandalistic choice. And now you're not only fighting for your survival, you're fighting for the survival of everything -- first of all freedom, democracy, the right to self-determination. You're also fighting for borders to matter, even if a neighbour on the other side of the border has a different view of your borders, and when he has a larger army, even though his army exceeds yours at least in size. And the world cannot overestimate the importance of the existential importance of your struggle. Fighting for Ukraine, you fight for your homes, your culture, your language, your identity. But at the same time, you are fighting for the future of all of us. The brave people of Ukraine, the courage of the people of Ukraine, have proved that democracy is extremely important in order to die for it, and it makes us strong enough to win. 30, 50, 80 years in the future, other generations of children will study your history in textbooks. And we hope that those textbooks will really bring meaning and greatness to your victories, and they will actually be next to the same landing gains in Normandy. But more than that, it will be noted that it is Ukraine that has determined the future of the 21st century. [[Applause]] And this is what we have before us, our task. And that's why Ukraine will continue to stand side by side with you for as long as it takes. Vladimir Putin made a serious calculation of his aggression against Ukraine. And President Greensky's presence at this summit and in the world at other summits has had a huge impact on society. During this time, Canada has formed 35 specialists in the field of protecting the country. Since the beginning of the brutal invasion, Canada has given Ukraine $8 billion, of which 1 billion has been earmarked for military assistance. [[Applause]] Over $2 billion was offered in loans to support Ukrainian reconstruction and reconstruction. And before today, I've also announced that we're going to give an extra $500 million, extra funding for military assistance. In addition, Canada will become part of an international network that will prepare Ukrainian pilots as military pilots to protect Ukraine in the future. And this should be Ukraine’s choice as to how to protect itself and how to protect its people. That is why Canada will support Ukraine's cooperation with NATO in the work of the North Atlantic Union in order to support Ukraine's early entry as soon as possible. We all want Ukraine to be a winner, and we want this war to end as soon as possible. We all want peace, peace for the Ukrainians, but peace under Ukrainian conditions. Russia must immediately and unconditionally respond to all its armed forces in Ukraine. And, of course, Canada supports Ukraine's initiative for a just and lasting peace under the conditions of territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. Last week I read the story of one of the Ukrainian soldiers, his invited "Kadet," he joined the army literally the next day after he turned 18, and it was the fourth day of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. When he has a free moment, he plays mobile games on his smartphone if he finds access to the Internet in his trances, and he's one of the Ukrainian heroes. But to my eldest son of 15 and although he's already in over my head, I can't imagine that in a few years, he might as well be in combat. When children and families live all over Ukraine in such conditions, it's extremely difficult even to imagine, but nevertheless it's all part of our reality, and what you do, why you do it, and how you do it. Every time I hear from Vladimir what's going on, every time I hear from Christ about her family living here in Ukraine, or when I hear from the Canadians about their family living in Ukraine, it's all coming true. Canada will continue to help and help. Since the beginning of last year, Canada has adopted a quarter of a million Ukrainians, people who didn't want to leave Ukraine, they all love their country, and of course they hope to return as soon as possible. But while we have them, we, the Canadians, help them. We give them jobs, help them, language courses -- all that helps them through this difficult test. I attended a school in Toronto, St. Dimitri, where over a hundred Ukrainian children are now continuing their studies. Teachers, schoolmates, and schoolmates gathered clothes, textbooks, and hygiene kits to provide not only for their families but also for their neighbors. In addition, libraries, local churches, public centres, and entire networks are provided to ensure that Ukrainians are actually allowed to move under extraordinary circumstances in order to gain access to such assistance, so that they can also benefit from the help of doctors, dentists, social workers, psychological workers, can continue their training and thus support Ukraine’s ability to fight further. Again, we all know about the special relationship between our countries, there is nothing new here, because Canadians and Ukrainians come from one root for many years. In 1891, John Philip and Basil Jelenak, who were the first to arrive in Canada, followed them very much and settled on Canadian soil. And over the years, they've been processing the land, building churches that are wrapped in beautiful domes. And now the landscapes of Canada are very similar to the landscapes of Ukraine with gold fields and clear blue sky just like the colors of your flag. It is thanks to the Ukrainians that Canada has reached the level of wealth and wealth that has helped it to take a proper place among other athletes, scientists, developers, and politicians. Including this fine example of this is that of Mrs. Christ Freeland, who also represents our government today. [[Applause]] The Ukrainians helped us to build our country over previous generations. And accordingly, all Canadians will be able to help you and future generations of Ukrainians in reconstruction. When I saw that the Central Bank of Ukraine had issued a commemorative medal containing a Canadian flag at its turn, I realized that it was really worth it because we were not doing it for the money unit, not for the red word of thanks, but because we really respect you. And Canada was the first in the Group of Seven to adopt proper legislation that allows us to formally arrest and use the funds released as an advertisement to compensate Ukraine for the damage caused by the Russian neighbour. [[Applause]] Moreover, last spring Antonov-124, an aircraft, landed at Toronto International Airport. As soon as he landed, he was arrested. And today I want to announce that we are arresting this powerful air force to do everything right and to guarantee that it will never support the Russian war again. And this is exactly the moment when the immeasurable consequences for Ukraine can come, but the effects on the world’s future are equally immeasurable. Putin and the pandemic, they clearly showed what democracy is, what risks are and what dictatorship is, and what risks it poses to both first and second. And that is why we should use our relationships to strengthen our relationship and development, and we should not allow ourselves to be used by an aggressor. Moreover, the entire civilized world must unanimously express its support for exactly the kind of attitude that we have to confront the aggressor, just as our allies are now doing. All about energy investments, in terms of the resources that are for the benefit of reliable partners, is not only to ensure energy security as an element of activity, but this is the task of building a democratically better world that will not depend on the characteristics of energy supply that will be the price that someone has to pay for carrying out their evil plans. Because it is we who must build order and trade that will be free of politics and serve for the people. While Putin, on the other hand, is viciously using all these resources to cause pain, suffering, and hunger to the rest of the world, especially to impress those most vulnerable, including himself. The world’s famine, which has been quiet for so many years, has once again lifted its head thanks to Vladimir Putin. Ukraine has been supplying grains abroad for so many years, and today attacks on your energy systems have put the supply of grains at risk. Turning to those who think they can still fix or who think that the only way to win is to beat others by addressing those who consider geopolitics to be zero in some gambling game, we want to say enough, that's a clear choice that the world now has and has made. [[Applause]] And this choice is very clear: democracy, where the rule of law prevails, where development is common to different peoples, where diversity is respected, and where the middle class gets all the right opportunities for its development, where citizens choose their own destiny, in contrast to autocracy, where the right is strongly dominated, where tyrants have unlimited authority, and authoritarian regimes have no opinion of their people or of other peoples. And this choice is completely understandable, and every day it only becomes clearer. Our collective success is completely intertwined with the success of others, international law and the fundamental principles and values that build our world, they are just to everyone and everyone, but the framework that we are further implementing can prevent this. Only stability allows all of us to thrive worldwide. And that's why nations and democracies, economies are developing in Asia, Africa, in other regions of our planet that are fighting colonialism, they're all part of our struggle, your fight that we support. And that's what Canada says to all of its partners in the world. And as far as Canada’s allies are concerned, Canada is really one of the most powerful ties in the world. 21 OPEC members, 31 OTAN members, members of American governments and other organizations, we're going to be spreading the same message everywhere that we need to help Ukraine fight for these values, because Canada understands very well what we're talking about. [[Applause]] My friends, I continue to marvel and to gain strength from your steadfastness and courage. You have been threatened by Putin since his invasion. You raised the whole world by putting it on your side. And you haven't thought about giving up for a minute, just like we have. Last year, President Zelensky addressed the Canadian Parliament and pointed out that all the democracies around the world were lucky to have President Zelenski at the helm of this movement. And today I want to say, all of this is also at your address. Each and every one of you here in this room, standing side by side, you reinforce democracy every day, and for that I thank you all, and every single day. [[Applause]] And as parliamentarians, your work here is extremely important, because democracy needs strong institutions, such as the Supreme Council, believe my word. I am responsible for the government of Canada, but I also understand that our system is extremely privileged, being one of the sister organizations, of 357 organizations, and we are pleased to fight for the rights of our citizens and voters. [[Applause]] Democracy is the way of life that we have chosen. It does not happen by accident and will not last without additional support. So let's be clear, no dictator can take that choice away from us. Citizens must be free to choose their own leaders and their own future. People need to be free to express their thoughts and not be drawn to the shop, and governments need to be transparent and to treat people with the respect and dignity they deserve. And we're going to protect these values every day. Today, when we visit your country again, we see your grief, but also your resilience, and I see it with my own eyes. I see how extraordinary your courage and expectations are. And here, behind my back, outside this house are the yellow and blue stripes that are still developing in the wind. Just as Ukraine stands freely on its own, so it will continue to stand. And by quoting Taras Shevchenk, an outstanding Ukrainian poet, Ukraine will always be a free people's family, because no bullet, no bomb, and no aggressor will be able to take away your freedom, your language, your faith, and your history and your future as Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, let us once again thank the Prime Minister of Canada and the Canadian delegation for their participation in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the strong support of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u181	Alexiyyovich, do you want to continue with the next one on the right? You can continue, yes. How many minutes do you want, maybe three, or what? Oh, no? Dear colleagues, please return to your seats. A group of friends with Canada grew. Dear colleagues, please return to your jobs, democracy will not rebuild itself, as we have just been informed. 3 minutes, Alexeiyovich, please. Three minutes while the process is under way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u182	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Thank you very much Prime Minister of Canada. Merci beaucoup! [[Applause]] And indeed, Mr. Trudo is demonstrating an example, Mr. Trudo shows us all how to support Ukraine, how to support the Ukrainian army. And I hope that we now feel this together, that we will be inspired by Mr. Trudo, our Canadian friends, and we will be inspired by this, and we will finally start paying attention to the military. I see that we may already have a compromise that we are looking for and in the near future, hopefully we will find a solution to any military issue and then continue to follow this important bill. So, my friends, this is good news. Right now, with the head of the Social Policy Committee, Mrs. Trelyak's Galina, we're working on a text that will allow us to go directly to compromise and vote in support of the military, which is a vacation. Guys, I'm trying to say that this isn't the only problem with the military. 30,000 return to the people they promised when they came, the people who came to defend the country not for money, but it's a matter of respect. And then a year later, when they take it away, it's definitely wrong. A separate question about logistics, the PPO, a separate question about medicine -- that's all to be decided. Regarding the status of members of the fighting, the Nazi Guards, who protect critical infrastructure and national security. Friends, these are important issues that we need to resolve with you. I hope that if we go to this compromise now and vote on the vacation issue, then, my friends, we can go along with you, then we can really move forward with you, solve the issues of our military personnel, return the payments to the experts, the students, the instructors, the limitedly qualified, all those people who need it today. I'm paying particular attention to the issue of demobilization. The bill that we voted on, 8009, which allows the demobilization of the U.S.S.S.A. by those whose relatives and loved ones died or disappeared during the war, this bill, voted by the Council, is before the President on May 8th. And I very much ask that the ruling party also ask the President to sign this bill as soon as possible, which is very important to many.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u183	Alexiyovich, thank you. I understand that you are still in a constructive position as amended. Do I get it right? Your word. Arachami? Did he call you? Do you want to give the word to the Aramaics? Oh, no? Could you turn on the potter for one more minute, please? And invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u184	Dear friends, we are about to compromise directly on the fact that, together with Mrs. Galina Trelyakow, we are registering a bill on 30 days' leave for soldiers plus 10 days under family conditions, not counting the road on one side or the other. It's a very important decision. And I would like to hear from the head of the faction of the great majority of David Arahamaia, that he would now publicly say that we are here immediately after considering this bill, which we are considering with you right now, and we have now come in and voted as a whole. In general, because it's a very short and simple vacation bill. If Mr. David Archamia is saying this right now, I hope this is already a victory, that we are taking the first step to meet the military, and then I stop putting on confirmation, but please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u185	Alexiyyovich, the only one I have is a procedural proposal. David Georgievicz, Alexei Alexiyovich, in order to have time for the committee and the process, now discuss a decision on ecology and then this new law, which does not yet exist. He needs to be registered, set up a committee. Well, it'll still take 15-20 minutes. Can we move like that? Alexiyyovich, can we not do this right away, but consider the decision on ecology, and immediately after that, about vacations? Because it takes time for the Galina Mikolayovni committee and so on. He agreed. David Georgievich, please confirm this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u186	I'll confirm. Confirming our agreement. The registration process is now under way, the committee is convened, and after the committee we will vote on this bill as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u187	Great. Then now, colleagues, I invite you to the hall, take your seats, and we'll go to the vote. We don't have any more speeches, there's Kucherenko. Okay. Colleagues, please take your seats. We will now vote on Bill 5322. Invite the deputies to the hall. Also, colleagues, as everyone says, how we will continue to work: we will now enter into an environmental decision and during it I will invite representatives of factions and groups to a brief meeting to discuss further steps. Invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, take your seats, please. Can we get to the vote? I would like to propose a second reading and, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent abuse in wholesale energy markets (registration number 5322). I would like to vote on the proposal to accept in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Please vote. We vote for the law. [[17:10:07]] For 257 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Please show by factions. Thank you, Andry Mikhailovich, go back to the hall. Dear colleagues, I'm about to, we're going to make a decision and we're going to move on to. And then I invite the factions and groups to the meeting. Dear colleagues, once again we stress the need to keep the rules of silence for the meeting. Now we're out of here. Please warn your Instagram assistants that silence is usually distributed on the phone regardless of whether it is in the hands of a deputy or an assistant. Therefore, the request to consider this too. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Registration number 9375. Draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, parliaments and governments of its member states, international organizations and their parliamentary assemblies in connection with the next act of terrorism by the Russian Federation, the subversion of the Kakhov Hydroelectric power plant called P.S. It's impenetrable. Dear colleagues, I suggest you include this issue in the agenda of the session. [[17:11:27]] For 261 Decision taken. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[17:11:47]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, from the authors, perhaps Oleg Bondarenko? Is anyone on the committee? Anybody there? Can you get it from the authors? Because Ruslan Alexiyovich can't right now. Please, then, by Oleg Bondarenko. Stay away from the international committee. We'll keep signing up for the performance. Please, three minutes. Faction leaders and groups, please come to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, on the night of June 6, Russian troops committed another act of genocide, ecocidation, and environmental damage to our country. This is the most extensive terrorist act of the day, this is a controlled subversive of the Kakhov hydroelectric power plant located near the city of Nova Kahouka, a temporarily occupied area of the Hersonian region. This caused a technological catastrophe. The upper part of the dam was destroyed, which was the last stairway of the hydroelectric cascade of D.C., and held the reservoir at a volume of 18.2 cubic miles [18.2 cubic km], resulting in an uncontrolled flow of water. Thousands are now deprived of their homes, needing evacuation, irreparable damage to the environment, and loss of natural resources. The mining of the Kahov Hydroelectric Station will be carried out by Russian invaders immediately after its capture. First weeks of full-scale invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation. Then the subversion of the Kakhov Hydroelectric Station became a pre-planned act of state terrorism, which created a deadly danger for people and everyone living on both sides of the Dnipro River below the Kakhov watershed, as well as an undisputed unprecedented act of ecocid, which has an impact far beyond Ukraine and is affecting the ecosystem of the entire Black Sea region, of all Europe, of the whole world. This crime of the Russian Federation is not only an act of terrorism and ecocid but also a war crime in accordance with the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons during the War (1949), an additional protocol to it and the Convention banning military, any other hostile use of natural resources (1977). Because of the critical low water level in the Kakhov watershed, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians are already having problems supplying drinking water, including 600,000 inhabitants of the city of Krivi Rig, who live in other locations, particularly our Crimean Peninsula. River marine ecosystems have also suffered significant damage. Ukraine’s ecosystem, in general, and objects naturally, have a very negative impact? the trust fund, and the arrangements relating to the Ramsar Convention. Draining from the soil of agrochemicals, biological wastes, petroleum products, and sea lands will increase the impact of environmental disasters, which can lead to outbreaks of mass infectious diseases, worsening living conditions in general. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council, on behalf of the Ukrainian people, calls upon governments, parliaments of foreign countries, the United Nations to condemn and acknowledge the actions of the State sponsoring terrorism by the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u189	Thank you. Please, from the Arseny Pusharenko Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u190	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, at its meeting, gave a thorough consideration to the draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, Parliaments and Governments of its member States, international organizations and parliamentary assemblies in connection with the next act of terrorism by the Russian Federation, the undermining of the Kakhov hydroelectric power plant called Nepozny. As a result of the consideration of the project, it was decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and as a whole with technical and legal rights and committee proposals. I would like to point out that yesterday, more than an hour ago, our committee had a discussion on some of the formulations, additions for both members of the committee of factions and other national deputies represented on other committees. The purpose of the draft decree is to adopt a corresponding appeal in connection with the night of June 6, 2023, by the Russian Federation’s Armed Forces, the most extensive terrorist act, directed at the subversive of the Kakhov High Power Plant Nepozny, located near the city of Nova Kahouka in the temporarily occupied territory of the Hersonian region. I would like to point out that repeatedly, both the President and members of the government, and we, as national deputies, have stressed on every possible site that such an act, such a terrorist crime, is possible and unfortunately Russia has committed it. This caused a technological catastrophe, demolished the upper part of the dam, which was the last stairway of the Dnieprova’s hydroelectric cascade, and maintained a reservoir of more than 18 cubic miles [18 cubic km], resulting in an uncontrolled spill of water. Thousands of people are deprived of their homes and need evacuation, irreparable damage to the environment, loss of natural resources, and we do not know the full extent of it. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please support the committee's decision and adopt the proposed draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the technical and legal rights and proposals of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u191	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against factions and groups. Please, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u192	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Presidium, the People's Deputies, is actually an important statement by the Supreme Council as the legislative body of the State, referring to the entire world community. It is indeed an act of terrorism and Russia is demonstrating that it is a terrorist state in the world number one. This is an act of ecocid, because the consequences of this tragedy will become clear, unfortunately, only in the future. This is actually clearly proven and will be proven that this act was created by Russia and precisely because of international indifference. We remember the Russians committing a terrorist act in Olenovac. And then we demanded that the international community react, and as it turned out, we didn't let any international structure into that crime scene, and the world swallowed it. This is the next act of international response. And we demand that international structures act decisively in this situation through rigidity, sanctioning, something that has not yet been done, because the next step may be even more severe. We parliamentarians demand immediate action. The Fatherland faction is going to vote in favour of this statement, and we think it's the right step for our parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u193	Breaking up, please, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u194	Please pass the word to Julia the Sheepling.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u195	Wolfman Julius, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, indeed, now what has happened is one of the greatest anthropogenic disasters of the 21st century. I want to pay attention to all international environmental organizations, all international organizations, every citizen of the world, every citizen of Ukraine. We need to respond, we need to respond, and we need to help each minute. The scales are colossal. And every day, every next month, every next year, each of us will feel climate change, changes in what is going to happen in the health system and in the ecological state of the world’s ecosystems. I'm pointing out that the natural-command territory in the Herson region is 30 percent now at the point of destruction. The biodiversity of the European level is being destroyed and eliminated. At the point of extinction, natural habitats. Colleagues, we've ratified, we've integrated the Bernese Ramsar Convention, and now nine emerald territories are disappearing, five ramsar agreements of world importance are disappearing, every minute life disappears. And this is our responsibility. This is the responsibility of the whole world. I would, you know, colleagues, very much like each of us to talk more about environmental problems. So when something happens, we start talking about it. But there are special institutions on a global scale and they predict changes. I'm sure we should listen to scientists and, above all, focus on climate change. My colleagues, you know, very close to me at the time, said: “The main thing is that we should be. And it is we who save today, every living thing every day, every animal, every life. We are united. But we need even more support, friends next door. Please, I say again: the world wakes up, we need you next to it, save it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, then Arthur Volodymyrovich Herasimov and then we vote. Please be quiet in the hall. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u198	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor. What happened in the New Kahovka is that as an arrow from the bow, I want to say that one of the first objects that sank was the famous Dynamo base in the New Kahovka, then the home of culture, then thousands and thousands of people who suffered from this ecocide. So today I want to urge all of us to unite in order to help those who are now suffering deeply. I want to thank the rescue workers and all those who joined in the relief and rescue operations. I see with what self-loyalty our rescuers, the military and all those who have joined this rescue operation are now giving themselves up to protect and preserve the lives of our citizens. This ecocidal cannot be left unanswered. And now the Supreme Council is to unite, help all of us, and if we are to increase the funds of the Ukraine’s Cabinet Reserve Fund in order to get help on time. Convinced, we'll get through this, and those who created it will be responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u199	Thank you. Please, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, right before Arthur Volodymyrovich starts, I'm going to ask the people's deputies to take their seats, and then we're going to vote for this important decision. That's what I understand, Irina Volodymyr, isn't it, Arthur Volodymyrovich? Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u200	Dear Ukrainians, we and the world do not yet understand the extent of this barbaric crime, the extent of the victims and the destruction the rasists have brought, blowing up the Kachovsky GES. And it is obviously our duty to accept today’s appeal to all countries of the world to recognize this crime as an ecocidal. Obviously, we have to appeal to the International Criminal Court, to the establishment of an international tribunal for Putin and his gang to issue a second warrant for violations of the laws of war, for war crimes that are part of genocide and ethnocid. The scales of such an ethnocid were indeed unknown to any country in the world. And we would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which has accepted the amendment proposed by Peter Dustenk and our team, for the need to focus on the biggest crime that racists today are blocking the evacuation of the civilian population on the left bank. Yesterday our team returned from Herson, carrying more than 100 tons of food and supplies. And we are impressed by the humanity of the Ukrainians, who today, under the hails, under artillery, save lives of people, animals, all living things. And it's obvious from this background that the degradation of international institutions, such as the International Committee of the Red Cross, such as the UN, the OSCE, has not been able to organize these evacuation corridors. Therefore, the call of our team to recognize this crime as an ecocidal. To hold Putin responsible and his gang for genocide and the genocide of the Ukrainian people and Ukraine. And of course, all Russians are to be held accountable, there is no good Russian, they all have to be held accountable for their evil.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, they have asked, "Trust" conveys the word for Oksana Savichuk. The "minister of the people" has already spoken. Now, a minute then.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u202	You know, we could never believe in our lives that the explosion that was set up in Kahovský GES would work. We thought that the hand would not blow up and destroy not only the ecosystem, destroy life, destroy the fate of people, destroy homes, destroy childhood memories, eventually destroy all the rules of Europe and the world. Why is it so important today that we are able to punish evil? Because unpunished wickedness will be repeated. Because if The Hague is not held accountable, there will be nuclear catastrophes and other things, because all who are not punished continue to commit their crimes. Until the world understands this, we cannot live peacefully, we must continue to prove to all that evil should be punished.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before the vote, I understand, from the procedure asked Mezencev Maria Sergiyevna, and after that we vote. Invite a colleague into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u204	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I want to address all Ukrainian national deputies who can't hold back and can't hold back their hands and fingers. If you cannot follow direct instructions from the Head of the Supreme Council and not inform the enemies of the meeting of the Supreme Council, you are threatening not only yourself and colleagues, but the whole apparatus, all those working for us and for these meetings to take place. Dear pens, stop writing. Take your hand if you can't, ask a neighbor, there's Dundu or Mulika, ask a neighbor to hold you back. Stop doing that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u205	Maria Sergiyevna, this is not just my direct request. I want to remind you that we started our session by making the right decision, where we foresaw such a ban. It is the will of the entire parliament, which some do not consider necessary. Dear colleagues, we've discussed these issues all. Let's move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to make your decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the bill as a basis. I'm sorry, stop, stop, I'm sorry. Take into account the Committee's proposals and, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, Parliaments and Governments of its member States, international organizations and their parliamentary assemblies in connection with the Russian Federation's next act of terrorism, a subversion of the Kakhov Hydroelectric station called P.S. Immaculate (registration number 9375). Ready to vote? I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[17:30:33.]] For 265 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, David Georgiyovich Arahami begs for one word. Please, David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u206	Colleagues, I propose, we now have in order the daily Euro-Integration Bills, which we agreed on at the Conciliation Council to vote without discussion. Now move on to them while we wait for the final committee, the committee decision on the Honcharenko and Tretiakov bill, and continue to move on to it. And quickly go through the entire agenda as far as we can, and then, as Mr. Prime Minister of Canada has said, we will work for the well-being of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u207	Thank you. Dear colleagues, David Georgievicz, if I may, or I understand correctly, move to the issues on which we agreed on a non-negotiable agreement on the Conciliation Council, including Euro-Integration Bills? Did I spell it right? What, no? Your Arthur Volodymyrovich is yelling, yes. Dear colleagues! Arthur Volodymyrovich, right? Thank you. Let's put this proposal to the vote, please. I ask you to vote on this proposal to go to the Euro-Integration Bills, as well as those that we agreed without discussion while the session is under way. Please vote. [[17:32:13]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, then I inform you that we are now moving on without discussion, we are voting in favour of Bill 9332. It's a draft of the Act amending Chapter XI of the Act on Education for Ukraine's Final and Transitional Positions on the Settlement of Certain Issues of Education in Wartime. I'm proposing to adopt Bill 9332 as a basis. Please vote. [[17:32:57]] For 259. Decision taken. I would like to make a proposal to take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 9332. This is a draft law amending Chapter XII of the Education Act on addressing specific issues of educational activity in the context of the state of war. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:33:33]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill that we agreed on without discussion, 9272. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the verification of patient information. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[17:34:06]] For 254 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s legislation on the verification of patient information in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure (registration No. 9272). Please vote. [[17:34:36]] For 249 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 9272. Please vote. [[17:35:00]] For 214 We can't cut the lines. Next bill, 7577. This is a draft of the Act to amend certain legislative acts to improve the management of engineering infrastructures for meliorate systems of state property. I propose to adopt the bill on the basis of the drafting of regulations, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules, 7577. Please vote. [[17:35:39]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill that we have without discussion is Bill 8223. This is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to protect human beings from the effects of ionizing radiation. I'm making an offer, that's 8223, and I'm proposing to adopt this bill as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:36:20]] For 260 Decision taken. Excuse me? Irina Volodymyr, procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u208	Thank you. As we know, according to the Pro Media Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine broadcasts "The Council" in the recording. And I want to pay attention, colleagues, to the fact that the marathon yesterday showed the evacuation footage of citizens from Hersonian who showed, not really, Ukrainian rescuers, but the Russian FSB. It's a very important question, I want to raise it in the session room right now, so that everyone understands what the state money is going on, and to draw the attention of the honourable Chief of the Supreme Council to the fact that we don't have the right to tolerate this kind of unprofessionality in the marathon. And in fact, the "Council" channel should not only broadcast parliamentary meetings, but also, you know, perform its functions directly, informing the committees about the work of the MP factions, rather than broadcast incomprehensiblely what the state funds are. It's a disgrace! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, the next bill without discussion is Bill 8235. This is a draft Act amending and supplementing the Criminal Code for the Elimination of Contraventions in Criminal Offences. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending and supplementing the Criminal Code for the Elimination of Contraventions of Criminal Offences (registration No. 8235) in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[17:38:19]] For 279 Decision taken. The next bill, without discussion, we agreed to, 7354. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the implementation of administrative responsibility in the field of preparation and admission of drivers to transport control. I'm proposing to adopt this Bill number 7354 as a basis. [[17:39:10]] For 266 Decision taken. The next bill, without discussion, is 0200, the draft Law on Ratification of the Convention of States Members of the Organization for Democracy and Economic Development, GUAM on Mutual Assistance from Consular Issues. I'd like to make a proposal to take this as a basis and, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, project 0200. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:39:49]] For 274 Decision taken. The next project, 0204, is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Nagoya Kuala Lumpur Additional Protocol on Responsibility and Compensation to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety. I propose to adopt the bill as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments (registration number 0204). Please vote. [[17:40:25]] For 273 Decision taken. Let's move on. The next bill, which we are not discussing, is 8319. This is a draft of the Law on the Announcement of Natural Areas of the City of Morshin, the natural areas of the Morshin Peninsula of mineral healing plants and the natural areas of the Niniv Nature of mineral healing salts of the Lviv Region of State importance. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to accept this bill as a basis. Please vote. [[17:41:07]] For 262 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to draft Law 8319. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:41:32]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we still have 8024. We said no one would make any adjustments. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Cultural Act on the introduction and maintenance of electronic registers of accounting and the management of Ukrainian cultural heritage and cultural values. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments to Bill 8024. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:42:14]] For 271 Decision taken. The next thing we've agreed on without discussion, 6134 is the draft Consumer Rights Act. I propose to adopt a draft Consumer Rights Act (registration number 6134) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[17:42:47]] For 263 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, which we agreed, without discussion, is ours. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me? Now. What's the number, Arthur Volodymyrovich? Next, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we go to the Constitutional Court, do I understand? Dear colleagues, the next bill 9322, is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the provisions on competitive selection of candidates for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:44:29]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite you to the floor of the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy of Maslova Denis Vejacheslavovich. Please, Denise Vejacheslavovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, he's also the author of the first bill. If you don't mind, I'll start with him, and then, Irina Volodymyrically, of course, we'll get to you. Dennis, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u210	Thank you. Colleagues, I won't be paying your attention for long. I just want to remind you that the first recommendation of the European Commission on our acquisition of candidate status in the European Union concerned the selection of the judges of the Constitutional Court. And we have to do it in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. Colleagues, yesterday the Venice Commission at its plenary meeting confirmed the conclusion, and today it was published, that it fully supports and recommends, noted that all the recommendations to the key Venice Commission were made to us in the bill of basic 9322, and it does not see any obstacles. And as soon as we approve, we're ready to put our representatives into the advisory group of experts who will choose from the judges, more specifically the judges of the Constitutional Court. And this is an important victory with you. Then we have to continue and adopt this bill as a basis in the hall. There is nothing to prepare, even taking into account the conclusion of the Venice Commission for second reading. But both we and the Venice Commission are going to work together quickly on this issue for the second reading and we're going to pass this law, and I think that as a whole, we're going to be all of you in the near future. And finally in Ukraine there will be a real competitive selection of judges of the Constitutional Court, which takes the utmost account of our desire to be open and clear to international partners and with the utmost consideration of our country's sovereignty and respect for our national experts. Thank you and I urge everyone to support our Euro-integration aspirations, our movement, and accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u211	Thank you, Denise Vejacheslavovich. There's no alternative bill author Sergio Volodymyrovich Vlasenk -- he's on a mission, I know. Thorochti Bogdan Grigorovitch, will you act your way? You won't. Then, please, another drafter of the bill is Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, the Venice Commission has come to great conclusions on the Constitutional Court Act and the so-called anti-oligartic law, when the opposition here in this room screamed out to you that they would not be read by the European Union, because they conflict with both the Constitution and common sense and create an entirely dependent Constitutional Court. And in fact, our team immediately passed Bill 8302, which was proposed to regulate the Constitutional Court Act in order to form it as an independent but traditionally everything from European solidarity does not apply to the session hall. How is our alternative now different from the main one? Because it meets the criteria of the Venice Commission as opposed to the basic. First, we offer seven experts to the Advisory Board. Secondly, we suggest that experts, most of them are made up of international experts, as today a group is formed to advise the judges of the Anti-Corruption Court. Thirdly, the Venice Commission tells you honestly and directly that it is not possible for the same structure to be responsible for the creation of the advisory board and the judges of the Constitutional Court, and you put it back into the bill. Fourthly, it is our own bill that makes it necessary to form an independent advisory public council in order to be an independent Constitutional Court. Fifthly, please tell me, what is the norm in which there is a country in general when you're introducing a novel in your main bill, such as the representatives of this advisory public council of experts? What kind of intercessors are these? So in fact, we urge the Hall to stick to the basic bill and vote on one that is fully in line with the criteria of the Venice Commission. It is not necessary to make a fivefold copy of what would be totally inoperable to European standards. And we call for laws to be placed in the session room independent of the names of the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u213	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, will you be from the committee, Denis Vejacheslavovich? Please, from the Dennis Maslov committee. Dear colleagues, then two in favor, two in favor, and we vote against it. Please, Dennis Veacheslavovich, from the committee that decided the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u214	Colleagues, the committee's decision was to recommend the adoption of the basic bill 9322 in the first reading and to refer to the Head of the Supreme Council in plenary to announce the application of article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules. Literally a few words I'd like to say. The Venice Commission made it clear that 93 and 22 were fully in line with its recommendations. So we vote and we move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two for, two for, and then we go to the vote. Please. Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mikhajlovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u216	Please pass the word to Ivanci Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u217	Ivanna Orestovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that in December this hall applauded the adoption of a bill on the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court. And the same Mr. Maslov actively convinced us that the bill was fully in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. We then warned that it was propaganda. Then we spoke on behalf of our faction, we were the only faction that did not vote for the campaign. What? As we warned, seven months later, we need to correct the mistake that so many of our colleagues have made. We approved then, you then passed the wrong bill, which did not meet the recommendations of the Venice Commission. Yes, the Venice Commission adopted a largely positive conclusion yesterday on your main bill. I want to pay attention, they've made suggestions on how to improve it. And I would like to point out that the Venice Commission has expressed regret that you have given up the appointment of the seventh member of this selection committee, as proposed by an alternative bill, such as "European Solidarity". So, colleagues, we're going to need to redraft this bill for second reading just in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. And stop making eye contact with Ukrainian society. We know what responsibility is. We know that this is the responsibility for the candidate status that we have given us, our advocates, with blood. So be worthy of what our army and our Armed Forces of Ukraine have given you the opportunity to do. Follow the recommendations you have been given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u219	Please have the right to reply, People's Deputy Maslov. Turn it on from there, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u220	Thank you for mentioning the bill we adopted in December. And in fact, if you open and look at the conclusion of the Venice Commission yesterday, at 42 points you will clearly read that the Venice Commission concluded that we had implemented their updated December and January recommendations, which it had already given since our adoption in December of the bill. So we have implemented the updated recommendations of the Venice Commission, as confirmed yesterday and today by the Venice Commission. So we vote and we move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u221	Thank you. Beautiful. Dear colleagues, Kowalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u222	Please pass the word to Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u223	Maxim, which one? Dirdin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u224	Colleagues, I urge you to support this bill 9322. And, indeed, what Maslov said is the head of the committee that the committee has fulfilled all the requirements that have been laid down by the Venice Commission. And this is our step towards joining the European Union. And what the previous speakers from the rostrum are calling for some sort of violation or inaccuracies is just a banal manipulation. And so I ask you all to support this bill in the first reading with application of Rule 116 of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u225	Thank you. Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, then Zimbaluk Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, after that we vote. I'd like to invite you. This is a bill for which, in principle, we are gathered here because of our Euro-Integration Commitments. Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u226	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please pass the word to Mr. Gregory Mama on the way to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u227	It's just Gregory Mikolayovich. We don't know where he is on the way. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we are considering this bill in the first reading. There's the conclusion of the Venice Commission, and all the battalions go like we do in the hall on: (a) the number of members of the commission and which they have the authority to make decisions. In our bill, six by the number of members of the commission. If three is in, three is against, what will be the final decision? In the conclusion of the Venice Commission, six members or seven? You have to decide between the first and the second reading and make the right decisions. And for the time being, it's up to the speaker. If the number is different in the bill and in the conclusion of the Venice Commission, what are we going to take as a basis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u229	Thank you. Please, Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, after that, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u230	I'd like to give Julia Timoshenko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u231	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u232	Honestly, I don't understand the puppy's admiration for this law. I'm just wondering, what kind of education do you have in this room? Have you ever read the Constitution without a pencil? You know, it's amazing how simple it is that Parliament still got our native Ukraine in the war. Dear friends, let our partners show us one country of the world, not to mention the countries of Europe where the Constitutional Court is not a system of Ukraine itself. What are you? You're here, you're dumping sovereignty to the right and to the left, you're handing out chemical areas. What are you doing? Do you even give yourself a report? Dear friends, the Constitutional Court is the last body of a sovereign country to allow everything under pressure against Ukraine's national interests against human rights and freedoms to be stopped in the Constitutional Court. And you want normal global corporations like that to assign us a Constitutional Court? But look at when it was that the Venice Commission had three conclusions that contradicted each other, three, one text at a time. Please leave the Constitutional Court alone. It is formed: a third by the president, a third by you, the Supreme Council, and a third by the assembly of judges. What kind of advisory working group that's been launched from outer space can make suggestions for us for the president of the country? What do you think you're doing? Stop ruining the sovereignty of the state, negotiate with our Western partners on constitutional grounds, dammit.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u233	Dear colleagues. I already did. Dear colleagues, one second. What are the motives, fellow believers? Let's get to the vote, everybody's speaking. I can only give the procedure if it's out of procedure. Please, who's in the procedure? Powder and after that. All right, I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u234	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we've had a completely distorted discussion. All the speeches that applied today to the bill that was adopted in December. And then I came out of the rostrum and said, this bill isn't coming up, it's pushing us away from European integration. We haven't considered a bill that was signed by me and European Solidarity for six months. Half a year, the integration of the Constitutional Court was blocked. And today you go out and say, the Venice Commission has endorsed our conclusion. It completely destroyed what you then accepted. She supported the bill that we tabled, and now we have to vote in the first reading. But the responsibility for that half-year of halting the Euro-Integration process.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u235	I'm sorry, Peter Alexiyovich, you took it out of the procedure and, by abuse of your right, not the procedure. Well, you can't do that, Peter Alexiovich, so unfairly. Please, Burmich, out of procedure. Not the procedure, I'll stop, I'll warn you. Please, Anatoly Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u236	Dear colleagues! "Delivery of Ukraine," Anatoly Burmich. I want to make it clear that our anti-corruption bill has also looked at all these projects, and they're all unanimously recognized as having corruption risks, not just one, but a few. I'm surprised to see our leaders why they don't bring this to the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u237	Please, who else from the procedure? Sobolev is out of procedure, and then we vote. Dear colleagues, take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u238	Sobolje, Fatherland. The key discussion on the committee today is the three bills that exist as alternatives. Our proposal was a number of committee deputies to allow the Venice Commission to draw a conclusion on all three drafts so that we would not get into a situation once again where the previous law was extended in haste, which was then recognized by the Venice Commission as one that did not fit the spirit of the European particular position. So our proposal is now to postpone. As Head of the Supreme Council, we can instruct you to submit all the bills that have been drafted for consideration by the Venice Commission and, as a result of this consideration, to vote on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u239	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as I understand it, the conclusion of Venice is already there. So let's move on to a successful vote on this bill. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the provisions on competitive selection of candidates for office of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine (registration No. 9322) in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council Regulation. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[18:03:14]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Show the factions, please. One second, I have a letter from the factions and groups first, and we're going to vote now. My fellow Members, I have just received a letter from all the factions and groups to consider and decide immediately on the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 10-1, paragraph 18, of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (registration No. 9378) (from 10.06.2023). Yes, no amendments, I'll put him to the vote right away. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I'm proposing, I'm proposing, I'm proposing, I'm asking my colleagues to accept, on second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending article 10-1, paragraph 18, of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families on the Vacation of Military Servants (registration No. 9378). Ready to vote? I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[18:05:07]] For 270. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The Gethmans, please. I understand that there is an agreement without discussion. We said we could vote 9051, 9052. Right, dear fellows? There's no objection. So I'm making an offer. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending Chapter IV of the Act on Consumer Crediting (Registration No. 9051). People's deputies, please vote. [[6:06:12]] For 264 Decision taken. Next 9052. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending paragraph 165. Article 165 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of consumer credit accounting during wartime (Registration No. 9052). People's deputies, please vote. [[18:06:55]] For 256 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, now I'm going to see what we have left to discuss, just a second. By the way, I have a letter calling off my bill 9311-2, which is about optimizing the ownership structure of the gas transport system operator. We can vote him, Your Honor, can we? There's no objection, is there? Dear colleagues, this is 9311, can we vote? Dear colleagues, I then propose, firstly, to include in the agenda of the daily session a bill on optimizing the ownership structure of the Ukrainian gas transport system operator and its alternative bills, in addition to 9311-2, which I noted was recalled. Please vote. [[18:08:06]] For 236 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the Committee’s proposals, the draft Law on Optimization of the Property Structure of the Operator of the Ukrainian Gas Transport System (Registration No. 9311). People's deputies, please. Whoa, whoa, whoa. What, again? [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, with discussion. For there came to me a letter that had been called off. Oh, you called off yours, but it's still there. Then I apologize, so I misunderstood. Dear colleagues, then I propose to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[18:08:56]] For 216 Decision taken. We agreed that Julia Volodymyrna's speech and we're voting. Right? Julia Volodymyrna. Will there be any more? Then write it down: two in, two in, two in. Dear colleagues, are you still interested in the authors, Julia Volodymyrna? Do you want the authors or what? Oh, I'm sorry, dear fellows, then let's do it the way we do it. It's just that I've written here that there's an agreement. There's no deal. Then we'll go with the discussion. Please Deputy Minister of Energy of Ukraine Safarov Farid Kamil ogl. Please report on the main bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u240	Good day, distinguished national deputies, distinguished presidency, presiding! The bill is designed to meet the terms of the Memorandum from the EU and IMF. It envisions a change in the corporate structure of a gas transport operator, i.e. its optimization and improvement. At the moment, the Ministry of Energy, or the State in the person of Minenergo, owns the AT "MHU", which in turn owns the OGTSU. In order to make an effective uniform governance structure, this bill has been developed, because we are first joining the AT "MMU" to this "OPTSU" and are prescribing a shorter procedure in order to quickly complete the integration procedure set out in the memorandum. In addition, the bill provides for the establishment of a supervisory board in the OGTSU, the new supervisory board, and the executive board. So far, there is a one-man government, and that's how it's going to be designed to create an executive body that's going to run the company. We want to point out that this bill, like all the steps taken to optimize the structure of the OGTSA, took place with the participation of the government, the NCRE, the Energy Society, and the World Bank. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u241	Thank you. Please, Maxim Mikolaiovich Chlapuk. You will? You won't. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Please, Julia Volodymyr. What about Clumsy? Please, Kid, then Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, your attention is given to an alternative bill in which we are improving the procedure for reforming the Ukrainian GTS operator, which was proposed by the government. At the same time, we completely eliminate the risks of non-compliance with international commitments under agreements with the International Monetary Fund and the European Union. The independent and professional activity of Ukraine's GTS operator is an overriding element of our country's energy security and a guarantee of continued supply of natural gas to consumers. Ukraine has undertaken a corporate reform of the GTS operator, namely, to transfer the operator's corporate rights from IGA to the Ministry of Energy, to accept the operator's status agreed by the Energy Community Secretariat and to form a new independent supervisory board of the GTS operator. What are the key differences between our alternative bill and the government bill? I'll only name two. First, the government project foresees that after the completion of the accession procedure, the operator will have an old IGA supervisory board in its current warehouse, and even allow this IGA supervisory board to remain fully valid after October 31st, which is in fact contrary to our international obligations. We're taking this risk by limiting the authorization of the old supervisory board to a clear date, October 31, 2023. Second: the government project risks that members of the operator's administration will be assigned to Minenergo under the accession procedure rather than the new GTS operator's supervisory board. We are also taking this risk away, assuming that the members of the operator's government will appoint a new elected independent supervisory board. I point out that the Energy Community Secretariat has given priority to our bill and has called on the committee to take into account all the safety nets that we observe. At the same time, while putting off our emotions and considering the importance of reform, we are ready to support it. Five seconds, we're ready to support the government bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u243	Thank you. We don't have five seconds, we're automatically shut down to avoid being subjective. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u244	Dear friends, this is Ukraine’s largest national treasure of gas transport system along with gas depots. We have this most expensive asset, which carries out Ukraine's unique transit mission, including from the gas transport system, is natural gas. I think you'll all remember how there was a statement in this room about the bandling, that we had to separate the gas transport system from the state and put a stock company there and a limited liability society that would instead manage our gas transport system. It was then said to be the brightest reform. I remember the president here who told us that we were doing everything. They split up, set up a foreign oversight council, took the government, and began. Corruption has reached such a level that the gas transport system has not paid in the budget, but the budget, if you remember, you have passed the law, 264 billion dollars have been paid by NAC "Naftogazu" to compensate for the damage. Now what do you vote for? Now you take a beetle and a frog, a stock company and a thump (a society with limited responsibility) by this law, and you do not understand what the law of single use is. And then there will be nothing in the state anymore, because this stockholder society is going to be living, not as a state enterprise, but under the laws of the stockholder society. You and I are just drinking property and making a profit in management. Don't you have enough intelligence to figure this out?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u245	Dear colleagues! Please, Andrew Mikhailovich, will you report from the committee? Out of the way, Herus from the committee. From the committee, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this government bill, which provides for corporate reform, corporateization and the creation of a supervisory board of the gas transport operator. For our part, we consulted the Energy Community, with other authors of alternative bills, and already in the decision of our committee before the first reading, we indicated that before the second reading we would work on it and take into account those standards, those recommendations that we had from the Energy Community. And we also want to take into account some of the norms that are in the bill, in the good Bill of Lapuk Maksim Mikolaiovich, so I think we're going to take all of this into account, and we're going to have a good, good bill, and we're going to be able to quickly undertake corporate reform of the GTS operator, because this is one of the conditions for cooperation with the IMF, and we need to carry out this corporate reform by August 1. Thank you, and please support the government bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u247	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: 2 to the, 2 to the factions and groups. Please give my word to Chlapuk Maxim Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, I stress that the corporate reform of Ukraine's GTS operator is taking place primarily in the interests of Ukrainian society. And, as I said during my speech, given the importance of this reform, the Voice faction is ready to support the government bill itself, at the same time under the coalition's obligation to take into account the safety nets that we have prescribed in the alternative bill. Once again, I stress that the official secretariat of the energy society has acknowledged that without these safeguards, the bill will not work and there may be risks of default. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u249	Thank you. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u250	Mr. Head, I'd like to speak to Alexia Gocharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u251	Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u252	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, the gas transport system is very important, it's our connection, including with Europe, it's our cooperation, it's our contribution to Europe's energy security. Although today, I'll tell you, our main task is to definitely stop today, in fact, I think we should stop for a long time and not drive the gas of the aggressor country, and that's a very important question. Yet this bill is to be considered. And what I want to say about international cooperation is a little bit more. Mr. President of the Supreme Council, don't say I didn't file a complaint then. A week from now, the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe begins, and my statement to Mr. Korneyenka is now in session. They're already preparing the delegation's orders, and I'm not there again. Once again, it's not about the pensioner, you know, well, something like that doesn't work. Then you'll tell the screenplays that, you see, I didn't know it was too late. For the record, twice President PARJE has written you a letter, you have not replied. The Paris Regulatory Committee has already reviewed the case, is preparing a mousse, which is a disgrace to Ukraine. You're creating an equal disgrace for Ukraine as a member of the Council of Europe. You can't do that, you don't have to do that. Over the years, Ukraine’s authority in the Council of Europe has been built up by various factions and parliaments. Why is it to destroy all of this for this petty revenge? It's ridiculous, don't do it, stop it, don't tell me what you didn't know. And this isn't just about PARJE, it's about my second deployment to you at the invitation of the U.S. Marshal Center to support the U.S. Embassy. It will be a disgrace to the Americans, a disgrace to the Germans who invite me to North Rhine Westphalia. Don't do this, don't embarrass Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u253	Alexiyyovich, since you mentioned me, I will answer you immediately. As soon as I received the letters from the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I immediately answered him with a description of all your ways and manipulations that you are doing in Ukraine. Please consult with him, please. I told you about that. Besides, everything you said here, I believe only SEDO. I'll see I make the decision. The decision under the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine on foreign missions, foreign missions, is taken by the Head of the Supreme Council, the First Deputy and Deputy. And I will use it and my colleagues will use it. Thank you. Happy birthday. Good luck. Dear colleagues, please, instead of Nadjajchenka, Alexei Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u254	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, before I tell you in fact why the "Paternity" faction will certainly not support this bill. I just want to remind you that three and a half years ago, there were a lot of discussions at our committee meetings in this room, and when the desire of certain Naftogazu managers was hysterical, one Kobolev is called, and the other Vitrenko, very successful managers, very successful. Now NABA, I hope it'll score both. They pushed under the slogans that we have no transit, that's what Europe requires, they pushed through what's called anbanding, but absolutely in the scheme is really corrupt, wrong. And I'm explaining why we took the stand and we're taking the stand against it. First. We then warned, not to make two legal persons. There's a state stock company called the Ukrainian Motorways. Why come up with some kind of left-hander all the way to hand the pipe over to this lot? They made this stupid, obviously this is an undirected, unmanaged situation, the ministry, which, by the way, only recently entered the administration, because they handed it all over to Minfin, the ministry understands that it's a stalemate and is trying, excuse me, to fix it. For some reason, public stockholders’ associations are being pushed into the throes. Clearly, we will never support it. The second principle was a mistake and a fool made by the GTS and the vaults. It's the only technology complex you've been told you can't do that. The GTS was put into traffic, and the shelter was placed in Naftogaz. It won't take off, and we'll explain it to you and fight it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u255	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, let us move on to making a decision. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the Committee’s proposals, the draft Law on Optimization of the Property Structure of the Operator of the Ukrainian Gas Transport System (Registration No. 9311). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[18:24:29]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, come on. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to send. No, we're voting first on the entire comprehensive list, the one on which the committee's recommendations are made, and then, if not, we'll go through it all. Dear colleagues, I propose that Bill 9311 be sent back to read again. I'm asking you to support me, Your Honor. Please vote. [[18:25:17]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I propose that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to draft Bill 9311. Please vote. [[6:25:46]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we will then go to Bill 9311-1 for the authorship of the People's Deputies of Chlapuk. This is a bill on the optimization of the ownership structure of the Ukrainian gas transport system operator. I propose to accept as a basis for redrafting the regulations in accordance with Part One 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. People's deputies, please vote. [[18:26:22]] For 207 The decision is not taken. I'm proposing to re-read alternative bill 9311-1. I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[18:26:49]] For 213 The decision is not taken. I'm making an offer, dear colleagues. And here are our votes for the bill. Thank you for your activity. I propose to send Bill 9311-1 to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. Dear colleagues, I ask your support. [[18:27:26]] For 231 Decision taken. Kid, work it out. Thank you, colleagues. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, look, we still had an agreement that we would vote 9315 without discussion. Can we? Dear colleagues, I'm proposing Bill 9315. I propose a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Code and other laws against the illicit circulation of tobacco products. I'm proposing to include it in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[18:28:22]] For 238. Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code and other laws against the illicit circulation of tobacco products, in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine. Ready to vote? People's deputies, 9315, please vote. [[18:28:58]] For 237 Decision taken. We got it. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, 9156, we have a restraining order. Alexiyyovich, will you call it off, and at that point dot? Yeah, that's why you're calling this off, isn't it? Oh, we fail, then we vote for her, right? Dear colleagues, we have an offer, we have a blockage, let's go. We're going to change the order, we're going to move on. I suggest we move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to put it to a vote, Arthur Volodymyrovich, all fair. Dear colleagues, I propose. Dear colleagues, I propose to move on to Decree 9156-d-P now, this is a blocking decree for the bill from the appropriate one. So please support me to move on to her now. Please vote. [[18:30:46]] For 221 The decision is not taken. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, announcements. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u256	Interfractional MPs are created according to Article 60 prime. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "For the military-technical power of Ukraine." Headed by Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Hello. And "For the Environment, for the Ecocidal." The Head of the Union is the Shepherd’s Julius Yuriyovna. Welcome, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-06-10-m0.u257	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we did a good job today. That's why. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's still powder in the powders, and there's berries in the berries, right? Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We continue to work together to win Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
