ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the ruling we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I point out that according to the rulings adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about the beginning, the running, the running and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for the security of the single legislative body of our state. Dear colleagues, in the event of air distress, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking pattern that is next to you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome today's guest room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine delegation of the United for Ukraine Parliamentary Union of EU Member States, led by faithful friends of Ukraine, Andrew Kubilius and Žigimantas Pavilonis. [[Applause]] Today, members of this association represent European countries such as Bulgaria, Britain, Iceland, Spain. Italy, Lithuania, Germany, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Finland, France, the Czech Republic, Sweden and the European Parliament. [[Applause]] We also welcome another parliamentary delegation of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland led by the distinguished Bob Silly and Alex Sobel, co-chairs of groups of friendship with Ukraine. [[Applause]] I would also like to welcome the representatives of the national assemblies of the French Republic, the ideologists and the authors of decisions in support of Ukraine: Pierre Alexander Angland, the head of the European Affairs Committee and Benjamin Haddad, the head of the group of friendships with Ukraine. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, according to parliamentary tradition, we are starting work on the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 365th day of Ukraine's decisive opposition to the massive military aggression of the Russian Federation. Everlasting glory to the defenders and protectors who, with weapons in their hands, stand up for the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine in the field of battle. Praise be to everyone and to everyone who daily works with self - determination brings our victory closer to ours. I ask you to honor the moment of silence of the memory of all the fallen in the wars of Ukraine, of all the dead as a result of Russian aggression, and of the Heroes of the Celestial 100 who have given their lives for our European future. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes' time to the day's agenda for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups, so I would like to ask the representatives of the factions and groups to sign up. Please, Your Honor. Please give the floor to Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Cosmequin, right, I get it? Andrew Anatolyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm not tired of going to this rostrum to call on, well, the Committee no longer needs to be addressed with security and defence issues, but with the deputies in the hall and with Parliament's leadership, I still want to address the issues that you promised on the previous Conciliation Council. He was assigned to the head of the committee to review and introduce Bills Nos. 8028 and 8259. These are bills that today help to support the resilience of voluntary formations of Ukrainian regional communities. On my finger, I want to explain what these laws are, projects. Because the committee knows that I probably don't understand why this has been happening for six months, they say they're referring to the Ministry of Defense. Well, I understand that the Ministry of Defense, these ovarians, need to do this, but to look at these, and to enhance the resilience of DFTG, they don't have time for this. First bill. There's voluntary formation. Voluntary formation is required to carry out combat orders. It takes cars, transportation. We come to the commander of the battalion of the military to which we refer, take orders from him, go abroad, buy 10 cars at our expense, go through the simplified procedure of the customs border. We come to Kiev, we give up 8 cars and ask the commander to give us 2. And he says, no, article 23 of Law says: “Arms and a combat kit. ” Period. I want a car! What's the big deal? One. The other one. Today, volunteering includes weapons with which volunteers carry out battle orders and tasks throughout Ukraine. Yes, we do, because today even in Kiev, 241th Brigade, all three battalions, are in Bahmut. Today in all parts of Kiev. All of Kiev's defenses are being carried out by DFTG, including our DFTG "Mria", which today provides for the protection of the Pechersky and the Glossiev regions. We have weapons. So please, let's make some changes to the statute of garrison and wagon service, let's write down that we have the right to keep it in order to use it. That's it, dot. What's the big deal? You're telling me this Ministry of Defense doesn't agree. So don't steal the eggs, and it'll be okay! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I ask the national deputies to take their seats. Please take your seats. And I would like to invite you further to the words of the national deputy of Zagradny Jury Ivanovich, the MP's group "Platform for Life and Peace." Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u4	Dear Head of the Supreme Council, please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine to Papiev Mikolaajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u5	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u6	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Dear guests! You know that the heroism of the soldiers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces proves once again that there will soon be a victory over Russian aggression and Ukraine will surely win this war, we all know that. And we now, as the Ukrainian Parliament, need to prepare the Ukrainian legislative field after the victory. The thing is, there are a lot of problems and challenges to our country right now, not just economics, not just social issues, but demographic issues. The point is that many refugees from Ukraine have left, those who are working at a working age, at a reproductive age, and we need to think today first of all about how to interest our people back, especially our mothers and children, to return to Ukraine. And this has to be a complex question, and a complex approach, and creating new jobs, and social guarantees. We need it today, I am addressing the Committee on Social Policy of Ukraine, because we have the Ukrainian Veterans Act of 1993 in force today. It needs to be updated under the conditions that this law will be subject to military servicemen who have been fighting Russia since February 24, last year, against Russian aggression. We need to update the laws today, and this is a must, the Law on Retirement for Soldiers. Because huge differentiation depends on the year of retirement, and our military has to know what social guarantees await them in the future after they come from the front. That is, we need to do these questions, and we need to do so. I'm willing to take my legislative initiatives here, just as I am in the reform of the social sphere. There should now be a bill on the transfer of the functions of the Social Insurance Fund to the Pension Fund of Ukraine. We need to identify ourselves now with a pension indexation at all. Because 2,000 93 bracelets, the 2023 minimum frozen pension needs to be indexed, requires social justice. It can't be that in a country, teenagers who have just been assigned to jobs get 200 to 300,000 dollars of wages, they count, while most retirees have a pension of 2,000 to 93 dollars. This is in the background of inflation of 30 percent last year, amid today’s inflation, that the purchasing power of these pensions has doubled. We need to respond and respond adequately to these challenges.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] It's new. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. We are with you in Parliament. Our guests have come to see us. I understand that Parliament, from the French word parler, is to speak, but let's speak one, and everyone, not everyone, not everyone, not anyone. Thank you. I invite you to the word of Speedy Anna Constantine, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u8	Dear guests! Dear colleagues! Today, on the last day of the year, from the beginning of Russia’s full - scale, unprecedented invasion of Ukraine, the most difficult, longest and bloodiest year in the country and each one of us. A year we'll never forget that changed us to before and after. A year that has openly shown that Ukraine cannot be overcome, because we, Ukrainians, despite all our inner strife, are a great, free, unbreakable, independent and courageous people whose strength is united in any condition, mutual love for the Father and courage in the face of death. And no hard-core racist can break Ukrainian steel. No mentally ill neighbor will be able to implement the Kiev Tale in three days, because the Ukrainians have shown such a level of self-organization, self-response, heroism, expertise, faith and the power of the spirit that the world has not seen in the twenty-first century. Ukraine, every Ukrainian has become a legend, a symbol of integrity. The world has united around us. Our partners are more unique than ever in the support of Ukraine, and we see this today in the hall including. Thank them so much, so low. Joe Biden, Andrzej Duda, Boris Johnson, Robert Metzola, Ursula von der Leyenne, and other European and world leaders. In dark times, bright people are always visible. There's no such thing as "impossible" for our volunteers, there's no such thing as "can't save." Our energies are giving birth to new light under fire. Our transporters deliver on any route. Our DNS are pulling out of any kind of collapse. Our entrepreneurs will pay their taxes in advance, and the agrarians will collect grain under the whistle of bullets. And our military has shown that the second army of the world in Ukraine is also a friend. And no one can outnumber Ukrainian soldiers. They're heroes born of war, real leaders who risk their lives for each and every one of us, our children, our future. People who impress the civilized world with their professionalism and one mention of their names makes them shiver and frighten the Russians no less than a mention of Bandera. Valerius Handsome, Kirilo Budanov, thank you very much. You are the leaders that the soldiers are unquestionably following. These are born once a generation and are recorded in history for life. This year has changed us more than ever, and we will never be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u9	Please give the word to Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, faction of the political party "The Voice". Jurchisin. Do I get it right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I have the great privilege of speaking on behalf of another nation today, who have been struggling with the racists for a long time for their independence, namely, on behalf of our Chechen brothers. And I ask all colleagues who are in groups of friendships with Ichkeria, informal and formal, please come out to the hall so that this address can be made as official as possible. Cabinet of Ministers of the Chechen Republic of Ichekéria (No. 68), November 27, 2022 During a difficult period of history, when a real threat to the loss of statehood arose, representatives of the Ukrainian authorities accepted the challenge and stood up for their homeland. After overcoming political debates by removing personal issues, they demonstrated wisdom and political maturity in the face of an external threat, the country’s military and political leadership united the Ukrainian people and protected the foundations of the Ukrainian State. This historic event, the demonstration of the role of the Supreme Council, of all its deputies in the recognition of Chechen statehood, the recognition of the occupation of the Chechen Republic of Icceria and the genocide of its people will dominate the friendship between our peoples. In order to consolidate the friendly relations between the peoples of Ukraine and the Chechen Republic of Icceria for the self-loyal steps on the road to freedom and democracy worldwide for the special merit of the Supreme Council regarding the Chechen people in accordance with articles 79, 80, 81 of the Constitution of the Chechen Republic of Icceria, the Cabinet of Ministers of the Chechen Republic of Icceria affirms. First. To express, on behalf of the Chechen people and the Government of the Republic of Chechnya, thanks to all the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the principle, honesty and citizenship of the recognition of Chechen statehood, the occupation of the Chechen Republic of Icéria Russia and the genocide of the Chechen people. As a symbol of special recognition and with the aim of strengthening friendship between the peoples of Ukraine and the Chechen Republic of Icceria, rename the site of the People’s Party of the city of Johar (The Terrible) as a platform for the name of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The decree enters into force on the day of its publication. Further steps will be taken by Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear friends, the Russian Empire must be destroyed. Today, on the day of the deportation of the Chechen and the Injun people, the genocide they created at the time, then again in the 1990s, today they're making the genocide of the Ukrainian people, this empire is going to be destroyed, Ichaeria is marching. We are addressing the parliaments of our colleagues from Poland, the Baltic countries, to do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national deputy of Kostuj Anatoly Vejacheslavovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u13	Please pass on the word to Tistik.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u14	Testik Jaroslav Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u15	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, dear friends, colleagues, all those who support our very own group of friendships with the Holy See! First of all, I want to thank all those who have joined in making it, institutionalize it as an official group of friendships. And you should also inform us that the first visit has already taken place. A group of friendships was created on January 12th, and I want to report a unique fact that we are the third parliament of the world to have such an institutional platform of communication with the Holy See. Thank you so much for joining us. I would also like to inform you that there have been meetings with Holy Father Pope Francis, including Secretary of State Pietro Parolin, Secretary of International Affairs Gallagher, and a number of other important meetings, including the diplomatic corps, which numbered more than half of all the representatives of the various nations at the Holy See. We raised very important questions about both the real situation in the country and the captives and deported children, and our clear positions on joining the EU and NATO, and a number of other important issues. It is very important to note that most of these issues have been written down, heard, received a warm reception, including some arrangements. And we're going to work on that in the same way as we're going to work on our further system cooperation with him. Colleagues, I urge all of you to join us and join us in victory! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u16	The word is given to the national deputy of Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, MP "Trust", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u17	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people. I remember last year in this room we spent almost a whole day discussing the contents of the President's decree on the state of emergency when they were inconsistent with his own standards, and at 5 a.m. on February 24 we had a completely different reality in which we needed to gather strength, courage and make decisions to the parliament in charge of the country. Of course, this has been the most difficult year in the history of our nation. All this year, Ukraine and its heroic people, the Armed Forces fought for their independence and their right to choose. And we have made this choice in favour of European integration, democratic values and human rights. And how paradoxically this doesn't sound, but it is this most difficult year that has allowed us to take quite successful steps. We have had a real documented prospect of membership in the European Union, and what is important to us as legislators is that European partners are making legislative progress on this path. We're clearly following that road map that we've attached together with the European partners and we're going to continue to do it now. This year's Ukrainian army has not just proved that it can protect its people and its country, we have proven that we can successfully develop the most modern technology and weapons of the Western model in a very limited time frame. Our soldiers are being trained, especially in NATO countries, according to NATO standards, so the prospect of membership in the most powerful military bloc in the world is also being transformed from a formal to a completely real one, because it is NATO officials who have expressed confidence that Ukraine will be able to join the Alliance after the end of this war. Parliament has accepted dozens of references to the international community to ensure that no crime, aggression, crimes of Russia are lost. We are doing everything we can to create an international special tribunal for Russia, and more than 20 countries are already joining a coordination group that is promoting the idea of creating this tribunal on war crimes committed during the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Above all, we have proved this year, together: the Ukrainian people, the authorities, the Armed Forces. Together to victory! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, Fedina Sofia Romanovna. That's what I understand, Peter Alexiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u19	I just want to say a hello to our friends and partners from Parliament of Europe. Dear colleagues, friends, today is the 365th day of the three-day war the enemy planned for her. Even our partners with NATO gave us no more than seven days or weeks. But nine years of war, including the year of a large - scale Russian invasion, said: Ukrainians have the ability to win brilliant victories. We are a nation of loving people, brave soldiers and talented commanders who are capable of leading and winning a high-tech war. I want to remind you that from our February-March team last year, no one has escaped from halfway Kiev to the fortifications of Lvov, Hmelnick, Mukachev and Frankivsk, because the army of Ukraine, created since the 14th year under the NATO standards we passed on in the 19th year, we were confident that we were able to stop the enemy and defeat Russia. We were sure that Kiev was true, Ukraine too. In the early days after the Russian missile attacks on our office, one of the headquarters of the territorial defense was created, and within 12 hours we took up the defense of Kiev. Since the first day, we have stated the principle of internal unity when the whole country is united and is to unite around victory. There's no big Russia, and we proved it. There is a gang of predators who have united around a mad Führer. Airplanes, long-range missiles, active air defences, electronic warfare devices, tanks, armoured vehicles, we don't ever need -- we need it now in the spring to ensure the attack of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And just as we demanded 50 billion dollars a year ago for the Armed Forces, so we now demand that 30,000 dollars be untouchable to every soldier. And we're asking you to draft Bill 1906 now. Who's to be taken from? Take 2 billion people who know how to love Ukraine for money. There are many more losses and trials ahead, but victory is just ahead, except beyond the mountains of the Crimean Mountains, where our flag stands. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. Dear National MPs, today is our colleague's birthday, the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Hanna Vyachelavina Bondar, "Serve of the People." Let's welcome her. [[Applause]] Dear friends, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I propose that a signal vote be held before the issue begins. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Prepare for the signal vote, Your Honor, please. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. Signal vote. [[12:39:39]] For 238. Decision taken. For 238, against 5, holding 10. Everything as usual. Dear colleagues, I reiterate my call to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information on the progress of the plenary session, decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council is given to you. Let us go to his consideration. We had completed our last consideration of question 7198. This is a draft of the Act on Compensation for Damage and Destruction of Certain Real Property Categories as a result of hostilities, terrorist acts, diversions caused by Russian Federation military aggression. As a result of the discussion from that period, there is this arrangement between factions and groups, and we're going to give seven minutes to the distinguished author of Julia Klimenko his amendments, and then she takes them off, and we're going to vote. That's why I give Julia Leonid's word, seven minutes, and then we vote in favour of this bill. People's deputies please take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, this time we had a long and tumultuous discussion about the rights of Bill 7198 on compensation. Of course, it's a necessary bill. I would like to point out that this bill was voted in the first reading in April 2022 and was on the shelf and was not discussed in committees or subcommittees or in the Supreme Council Hall for ten months. So I would like to point out that the question is not about the rights and not in discussing this project in the hall, the question is, of course, it had to be discussed much earlier. That's the first one. Secondly, his deliberations, discussion of the rights and discussion on the committee, on the subcommittee, were completely closed. Unfortunately, neither the right-holders nor those who wanted to join in the discussion of Bill 7198 had this possibility, since neither the committee nor the subcommittee had provided information about their meetings. Everything was closed and everything was as clear as possible. What's wrong with this bill? Of course, it must be accepted because people are waiting for compensation. This will apply to over 3 million people, Ukrainians who have lost their homes. But this law is, unfortunately, very discriminatory. It has not covered the war period since 2014. This law clearly states that compensation for housing alone will be granted to Ukrainian citizens in unoccupied areas and only from February 24, 2022. This means that in fact we recognize the losses of February 2022, not from 2014. This will lead to political and non-political legal difficulties in getting compensation from our citizens in the previous period, as well as in getting reparations from the Russian Federation since 2014, if this law itself recognizes that we are suffering only for housing and only from February. This law also actually allows for compensation solely for destroyed housing, attention, for destroyed housing. This law does not prescribe, there is no procedure, except for one reference to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which will take place with damaged housing. At this point in our previous statistics, most of the housing destroyed is damaged, not completely destroyed. So once again, this law has little to do with February 2022, and it will apply only to housing and to separate categories of citizens, it is limited to destroyed, completely destroyed property. What will happen to the damaged property, which is the majority? This law, as well as the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, are unfortunately not defined. So this discriminates against a large number of Ukrainians who left their homes, damaged homes, and moved either into temporary tents or into rented apartments. It raises many questions about the creation of commissions, local commissions, which have great powers, but also very discreet powers. Therefore, their decisions will need to be carefully monitored so that they do not lead to total corruption when people are required to bribe for making decisions to compensate for their destroyed dwellings. The term of statements should also be reviewed in this law from one year, as proposed by this law – a state of war plus one year, a state of war plus five years, because many people will not be able to return either from abroad or fail to submit such applications, or have other life situations that do not allow this opportunity to be used so quickly and apply for compensation. There is also a question, a serious concern, a virtual ban on the sale of the apartment for a broken home for five years. What are we talking about? There's going to be a gray market where they're trading apartments, but the discount, just like it was with the land market. It also raises questions in this law as to why houses, even houses thousands of feet [1,000 m], are paid for, and for apartments for small - family or small - size apartments, or for medium - size apartments, the family will be issued a residence certificate. The residence certificate procedure is completely opaque, since it is not sold for housing certificates in the secondary and primary markets, apartments are sold for money. In order to change the housing certificate for money, you will have to go to an unknown legal person defined by the Cabinet of Ministers and try to get cash. Unfortunately, neither the procedure nor the authority nor the limitations for this legal person do not exist in this law. There's absolutely no question about the loan quats if the person had an apartment in the loan. Tell me, who will it be, how will this be resolved with the banking system if the destroyed apartment was in the loan and the new one got, will it also be in the loan or won't it be in the loan? The law doesn't say that. In addition, any compensation granted under this law to a person will be taxed, namely, a person's tax, a person's income tax, and a military assembly. The law neither regulates nor creates a new rate of compensation for the benefits paid by the taxpayers, namely orphans, military, veterans, there are no benefits for these categories of people, which are absolutely wrong. There is also no recognition of turnarounds and no delicacy in the consideration of the issue of compensation. All of this will lead, unfortunately, to the fact that the law will not work, it will cause conflicts at the local level, it will cause, it has serious corruption risks. So the colleagues certainly need this law, but let's do everything we can to make this law reexamined either in this reading or immediately changed so that it doesn't create social tension in society. Thank you very much. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u22	Thank you. Julia Leonid, I especially want to thank you for your compromising approach and thank you for your understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Once again, let's move on to making decisions, dear colleagues. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on Compensation for Damage and Destruction of Certain Real Property Objects as a result of hostilities, terrorist acts, diversions caused by military aggression by the Russian Federation (registration number of Bill 7198). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:49:26]] For 275 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, further, we agreed, the next bill without discussion is 9045. This is a draft decree approving the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of February 22, 2023 on the application of sectoral special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) to the financial institutions of the Russian Federation. I'm making an offer to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:50:18]] For 323 Decision taken. Then I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft decree approving the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 22 February 2023, "On the application of sectoral special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) to the financial institutions of the Russian Federation", registration number of the draft Decree 9045. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:51:00]] For 325 Decision taken. Please, Honcharenko, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to raise the following question from the procedure. On January 23, more than 150 national MPs were sent to you for immediate inclusion in the agenda of the daily bill, which provides for the removal of MPs from the OPCW and the banned parties of the parliamentary mandates. Therefore, for immediate consideration of the relevant projects, in accordance with part three and fourth of article 96 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, I ask you to put to the vote the question of the inclusion of the relevant Bill No. 7694 in the agenda and sending it to a professional committee to reach a conclusion. This issue needs to be resolved because finding a Russian "fifth column" in the walls of the Supreme Council threatens the national security of Ukraine and the lives of every Ukrainian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u24	Thank you. I, see, Your Honor Alexeiyovich, I simply ask all those who initiate such decisions to read the entire Rules carefully, not their individual positions. The head of the Supreme Council does not put any bills into the agenda; it is solely the competence of the Conciliation Council. And so when the Conciliation Board has that issue, it will be considered. This time. The other one. As for the other, I am absolutely, constantly stressing my position that there should be no pro-Russian party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that is forbidden by the court. All who are forbidden by the court are aware that such decisions are not one but several. Let's address this issue in a comprehensive manner, and let's all be part of the Russian Federation at the same time. Let's move on, dear fellows, next Bill 8228 with badge 1. This is a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning State aggregate certification and the 2023 introductory campaign. We agreed that there would be one amendment to the EC, if I'm not mistaken, yes, and we're voting. Guys, look, this can't be happening. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, you have one amendment, too. One. Yeah, I remember they said the Voice was going to be a one-up. Then let's start with the "ES." I understand that, Vetatrovitch, the amendment number, the justification, the committee's response, we're voting. Call the repair number, Volodymyr Mihajlovich Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u25	Good afternoon! Amendment number 8. The substance of the amendment is very simple. Tests from the Ukrainian language and history should be made up of all the speakers. She was rejected by the committee on the grounds that the Ministry had already passed out other rules. What's very strange is that it's not the parliament that has to adapt to Scarlett's anons, but rather, it's as if the ministry were supposed to implement laws that haven't been approved yet. The Ministry announced that a test in Ukraine’s history would be unnecessary even for candidates in humanitarian training. It's very risky. Tomorrow is the anniversary of the beginning of this war. This war began because there is a thesis about a nation. One nation and I are not Russian because two plus two is equal to four, but because Putin says we have a history together. Come on, don't arm Putin's history, don't arm yourself. Thank you. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u26	Excuse me, once again, what's the editing number? Uh, 8th. Because they told me 3rd, I'm sorry. 8th. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, let's not confuse the external independent evaluation that is required for entry with the state-level summary appraisal that is required for graduation in order to know how the students have mastered certain disciplines or other disciplines. We have registered, you know, Bill 9046, which introduces the history of Ukraine and the foreign language in the list of mandatory subjects for state summary attestation. I urge the entire room not to speculate with the introduction of this year, which for a month and a half, all the aboriginals and parents know what they're going to give up, let's not change horses on transport, they're already getting ready for their subjects, for those they're preparing, and let's check all the knowledge at the exit of school in the state summary attestation. I'm asking you very much, next time in the fourth year in a row, let's not cancel the state summary appraisal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, Amendment No. 8 of the People’s Deputy, Vátarovic. She's been rejected by the committee. You've heard the arguments of both sides. Please, I'm putting 8 amendments to the vote. Please vote. [[12:55:57]] For 109 Show the factions, please. To – 109. The decision is not taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. From Voice, I understand, Sowsun, right? Please. And Pipa will. Who's going to be Sausoon and Pippa?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, my amendment is not about subjects, but I would very much like all MPs to listen carefully to what this amendment is about. This amendment suggests that students should not be recruited by means of motivational letters. I'm going to read you a list of the specials that Minosviti are now offering on the basis of motivational letters. For my colleagues from the Energy Committee. All energy specialities: electricity: atomic energy, thermal energy are offered to be picked up on motivational sheets. For colleagues from the Transport Committee. All specialties will be obtained by means of motivational letters. It's very important to colleagues from the Defence Committee. All defense specialties are offered to receive motivated letters. Guys, we're not gonna recruit professional people. We will not be able to develop any of these areas unless we have experts in five years. And actually, that's what my amendment is about, that you can't even ignore in such difficult times the quality of the preparation of our candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u30	That's the 11th amendment, right, Inna Romanovna? Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u31	The committee's position is very simple. In this bill, like last year, we are transferring the right to a state of war this year to determine by the Cabinet of Ministers how and on what kind of specialties an alumni will enter. We don't know exactly what we're going to have in the country for the next few months before we actually have an introductory campaign. So let's hand over this right to the Cabinet of Ministers -- let's make it operational. With the Cabinet of Ministers, we can all work, each of us as part of our parliamentary powers and influence their decisions. Thank you. The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 11th amendment of the authorship of National Deputy Sowsun is rejected by the committee. You've heard the arguments of both sides. I'll bet 11 amendments to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:20]] For-95 The decision is not taken. And we still have one amendment to Vasilchenko, and we vote in favour of the law as a whole. Please, Vasilchenka. Repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, my amendment number 19, I'll ask her to take it into account. This is an amendment from a colleague of Natalia Pippa, which we have also signed, many of us have signed. It refers to the fact that this year, taking into account the situation, we offer to leave three mandatory tests. The first is Ukrainian language and history, a unified test. The second is math. Because according to the PISA test, we don't all have enough math. And the third test is by specialty. Because it's obvious that when students go to a medical university, they have to put chemistry or biology, physical expertise -- physics and everything. This option has a lot of advantages, especially that we keep testing from history, Ukrainian language, and mathematics. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u34	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u35	Thank you very much. Indeed, an interesting revision differs from the position of the committee by being one integrated, at your suggestion, the subject of "Ukrainian Language and History" in one text. In fact, you know, I've already talked about this on the committee, and I don't really want the national MPs to figure out what the structural test is going to be. For this there are specialists, it's not the national MPs, it's not even the Ministry of Education, it's the Ukrainian Center for Quality Assessment of Education. There are experts on educational measurements who have spent 15 years in the country conducting an external independent evaluation, and they say in one voice that unfortunately, an integrated subject of "Ukrainian Language and History," well, it's, in a mild sense, illogical, because it's technically impossible to make it quality, especially in strict terms. Although the idea is really interesting, we're going to see if it can be implemented in the future. The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u36	Thank you. You're insisting on putting it up, aren't you? Dear colleagues, the 19th amendment of National Deputy Vasilchenko and other colleagues was rejected by the committee. You've heard the side arguments. I'm voting on the 19th amendment, please vote. [[13:00:58]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this law. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning State aggregate attestation and introductory campaign in 2023 (registration No. 8228-1). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:01:47]] For 285 Decision taken. Alexander Sergiyovich, distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, we propose that we assign this bill to the Head of the Supreme Council without delay so that we can begin the process of preparing for the national media test. I would like to place a motion for a vote with the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to sign Bill 8228-1 as soon as the Supreme Council has adopted it. Please vote. [[13:02:28]] For 293 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u38	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, next bill. From the procedure? Please, Dunda, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u39	Thank you, Mr. Head. With a view to standardizing the status of MPs from banned pro-Russian parties, I ask you to put to the vote the question of putting to the vote today's plenary session of Bill 7476, and the alternatives to Bill 7476, under the title "To amend certain laws of Ukraine on the consequences of court approval of a decision prohibiting the political party from the status of deputies of local councils." Please put to the vote, and let the Chamber decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u40	Thank you. I'll send you over to the same Rules of Procedure for your initiatives, anything else. They should be in line with the Rules through the Conciliation Council. Please initiate and then we'll conduct. Fellow Members, 0187 – Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the Digital Europe programme (2021-2027). We agreed without discussion, so I immediately propose to accept as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the Digital Europe programme (2021-2027), registration number of draft law 0187. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:20]] For 325 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question we have. According to article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, a national MP must abide by the generally recognized moral standards, always maintain his own dignity, respect the honour and dignity of other national deputies, officials and officials and citizens, refrain from actions, statements and actions that compromise him, the electorate, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the state. On February 21, 2023, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine discussed at its meeting the statement of the deputy faction of the political party "Slut of the People" signed by 228 people's deputies of Ukraine regarding the statements of the national deputy of Ukraine Leros Geo Bagratovic at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 07, 2023. Honourable National Deputies, the statement of conclusion is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenk. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u41	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting on February 21, this year, the Regulatory Committee reviewed the statement of the faction of the political party "Staff of the People" signed by 228 deputies regarding the statements of the Ukrainian national deputy Leros at the plenary meeting on February 7, this year. On the basis of the provisions of article 51 of the Rules of Procedure for the Review of this Statement, taking into account the transcript of the plenary session, the Committee adopted conclusions on the question of the observance of discipline and the rules of parliamentary ethics by Deputy Leros in connection with his statement and recommended that the Supreme Council should decide without discussion on the removal of the National Deputy Leros Geo Bagratovic from a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and bring such a decision to the electorate through the Voice of Ukraine. I remind people, for example, that if such a decision is taken by Parliament, the national MP for whom the decision to be deprived of the right to participate should leave the plenary meeting. Since during the ninth session, Parliament is working in a single plenary session, in that case this ban will be valid either until the end of this one plenary session, which may coincide, or the end of the current ninth session, or perhaps by the time another Parliament decides on its work if the state of war is lifted or suspended, and Parliament can move on to work on a calendar plan, which we all wish would happen as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u42	Dear people's deputies, I inform you that is in line. You listen to what I'm telling you, and then we'll scream. I report that according to article 51, part five, of the Rules, a decision to deprive a national MP of his right to participate in plenary meetings is taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine without discussion. So let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with part one and part two of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, part two and part five of article 51, part one of article 52 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Rules, Deputies of Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the removal of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Geo Bagratovich Leros, to participate in one plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to bring such a decision to the knowledge of voters through the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:08:29]] For 261 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now I'm going to finish this question and give it to you then. Let's see the factions. I ask the National Deputy of Ukraine, Geo Bagratovitch Leros, to respectfully refer to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to leave the meeting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The question has been considered. Now, please, by procedure, who? Sumar, please. Only by procedure. No, we don't have them from the rostrum. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again. One second, are you out of procedure or out of motive? If the procedure is out of place, if for reasons, the decision is not discussed for reasons. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's logical. Again, are you out of procedure? Well, then, from the place, please. Thank you. Please, I asked you to give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u43	I've been in the history of this Parliament for the first time, and I've been here since 99, and I can see when the procedure is given after the decision has been voted on. That's a violation. You wipe your legs on yourself. That's the first one. The other one. I'll tell you, 23 numbers, exactly a year ago, I was on every talk show, where those people sitting in that corner of the hall will continue to sit here because it's convenient for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u44	Is that procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u45	Yeah, it's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u46	Turn off the microphone, please. Let's move on, dear fellows. 9056. Draft Decision on the Cessation of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine, Trukina O.M. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's finish the procedure. Please make a deal with the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats, you're national MPs, not bloggers. Take your seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u47	I'm sorry, but there are no national deputies here. If we're not discussing our colleague, afraid of this discussion, we're removing, forgive me, not for one meeting, but for six months, and you know it, and it's a lie. And my very specific proposal for procedure. If it was an hour, remove it for 24 hours, please, not for half a year. And these comrades, who told us that Putin would not be a friend to us, there would be no war; these comrades must be cast out of this room at all. And I'll tell you about the hamster. I don't welcome homage in this room. But Geo Leros asked about things that were very important to the country. And these things, you know what? Who, I'm sorry, convinced Vladimir Zelensky that there would be no war, and on the 23rd, no one warned anyone. Who replaced Chongar after all? Who didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u48	It's a procedure. Dear colleagues, thank you. Everyone has spoken, let's move on to the next question. A statement was made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Ukrainian national deputy Truhina Alexander Mikolaiovich concerning the submission of parliamentary powers pursuant to article 81, paragraph 1, of the second part of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Rules Committee reviewed the application and prepared the relevant draft Decree (Registration No. 9056). On the Conciliation Board, we agreed to discuss the matter. I'm betting on a motion for a brief discussion. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:13:43]] For 259. Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka. We can relax. Oh, out of the way. Out of the way, please, Calchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u49	The Honourable Presidium, honourable members of the people, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting today reviewed the statement made by the People's Deputies of Trukin and decided to draft the relevant decision and recommended that the Parliament consider it and accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u50	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups: two in, two in, against, please. Please, National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u51	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u52	Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u53	And you know, a respected society and some disrespected people in this room, when you're friends with the authorities -- they'll forgive you when you're friends with the authorities -- they'll forgive you for the heavy consequences when you're friends with the authorities -- it's okay where you want to go quietly into the woods. And today, Mr. Trukin, who first wrote a report on me and Marousia the Beast for saying that we're shooting at the front and that we need to pay attention to it, is now being told that he's a great hero, because he didn't run away like some others, and he's a great patriot because he was helping something here in Ukraine. When we discuss this issue, it is not only for him to be deprived of parliamentary powers and not only to be deprived of the urgent powers of the fifth column, which here casts a vote of majority that has betrayed Ukraine for a long time. But today we ask the question, and who has not yet fled, and against whom are the policy orders now? General Marchenko. Do you think the case against him has been closed? No, it's not. And he's defending Ukraine. General Pavlovsky. Is the case closed against him? No, it's not. And he's defending Ukraine. And the armored vests and the boats, which were insinuated there, are now helping our soldiers defend the state. Sasko Pogrubiski, Andri Antonenko, Julia Kuzmenko, Tetjana Crnovol – they are all fighting for Ukraine, but political affairs against them are not closed because they are not in the power majority because they did not escape because they defend the state because they dare to speak the truth. So, society, be honest with yourself. Today, you're covering crimes with Trukin and this security detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u54	The word is given to the National Deputy of Bondarev Kostunica Anatolyevich, the faction of the political party "The Fatherland". Please, who's it going to be?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u55	Dear friends, you know, I've been doing local self-government for many years, and I've been elected to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the third time, and I've always been referring to the statements made by the national MPs, written on my own, to put together the powers to be voted for. At times, there were so many councils that it was done in such a way that one way or another, it was not to vote. So I still think we should vote for this calmly, let the man go, and let some labels hang. There is a court, it gives or gives a proper assessment of this behavior, and to society, I think, I need to think about who to choose, where to choose, and responsibility it will be. Because unfortunately, when we close our eyes, we sometimes vote for a party brand, people vote for certain political projects, and then they get the result. I'm sure that society will give a proper assessment, and once we win the next election, we'll get a normal assessment of the work of those national MPs that have shown themselves all this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u56	Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the "Voice" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u57	Please give the floor to Jaroslav Romanovich Jurčin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u58	Jaroslav Romanovich Jurchishin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u59	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. I'd like to point out in this crazy discussion that's a little bit losing the point of how well anti-corruption bodies worked, how this thing was actually going to close while it was only in law enforcement. And just after we moved to the National Anti-Corruption Office and the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, we have an economy of time, we have a political responsibility, which we've been fighting for since 2014, a lot of people in this room, and we have the money, probably for the army when this deal is approved. And in all this, as if the sanctity of life concerns only one question that, against the backdrop of the effectiveness of anti-corruption bodies, our law enforcement colleagues somehow do not support the strengthening of the independence of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, going against all the recommendations of the European community. On the contrary, they continue to be empowered, for example, to apply for extradition to the Attorney General’s Office and to hear that, for example, the extradition of Mr. Cyril Shevchenk, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, has not yet begun, although initiated by the Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office. Why? Because the Attorney General's Office didn't do it. And that's why we can mark the quality of the anti-corruption work, and the Tatar people are already living their lives. Good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u60	The final performance is Maksim Arkadyovich Bujanski, "Serve of the People". Ladies and gentlemen, after that, we shall proceed to the vote. Please, Maxim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Jaroslav, I agree with you, which is very important when there is a time economy. Thus, members of the law - enforcement committee were ready to express their position immediately in order to save time. They're for change, they're for decisions that will strengthen the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, but they'd like to do it in a constitutional way, purely in a constitutional way. So we created a working group to deal with this issue. And I invite you to be a guest at our committee meetings, working together to change our legislation. As for the question that we are considering. Finally, we found out who was the first and who was the last to write the report. So I think we can go to the vote and support this issue at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies, please. Please, who else is there? Boyko, we're voting after this, but you have one minute. Please. Please, I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Speaker, your honors are here! Alexander Truhin certainly did the wrong thing, and this was seen by the whole country, seen these images. But Alexander Truhin did another deed that I want to tell you about. In the heat of a fierce battle in Severodonetsk, Svetigorski Alexander Truhin, along with another MP, risked his life, performed humanitarian aid, and fed 600 people for ten days, in this heart of fierce fighting. That is why I am personally voting for him to give the mandate, and I will not. I believe that by his actions he redeemed all that he had done when this happened on his way. I think that this example of a national MP should be in everyone's hands, and I urge everyone to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, look, there's a statement. Let's, I understand, there are personal things, but there's a statement of our own, we'll make a decision. Question completed. Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with part two, part four of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the entire draft Decision (registration number 9056) on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, Truchina Nikola Mikolaiovich. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:24:39]] For 288 Decision taken. The factions, please. With a motive for what? So the motives were already there. Peter Alexiovich, of course. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u65	Thank you, Mr. Head. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to an honest police officer who has not been able to cover this matter up. Secondly, I would like to emphasise that Parliament has made a mistake right now, that we have to stop pianistism and respect the higher legislative body of the state, one of the branches of power. Because the sentence was handed down yesterday, ten days later he will be legally binding, and according to the Constitution, the Trukhin will be deprived of his mandate, and that does not require our vote. Instead, we gave the person who had received a criminal sentence with the honor of leaving the Supreme Council. I firmly believe that now the Supreme Council has made a mistake. It had to be according to the verdict he's got no mandate and he's gone. Thank you for your attention. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u66	Peter Alexiyovich, of course, is the reason, but the Constitution says: “The judgment that has gained legal power. ” And that's a minimum appeal, that's a minimum appeal, so me. I don't know about this, just to be clear. Dear colleagues, that's all. Dmitri Alexanderovich, what do you have? By procedure, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Out of procedure, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u67	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. You're absolutely right. But in this case there was a treaty of inquiry, so there will be no appeal. And I agree with my colleagues, it was unnecessary to vote for it. Because a person must be punished for the judgment. Not again as deputy ministers to get indulgence and leave the hall. Everything should be legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u68	Dmitri Alexanderovich, what you're saying right now is definitely out of procedure, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u69	Well, what about the procedure? It was possible not to vote. That's why it's a procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u70	No, it's not the procedure, Dmitri Alexanderovich. All right, let's move on, dear fellows. 8121. I'm just not following the periphery of this case, you probably know better. But there are nuances. 8121, we agreed, with discussion, and then 8136 without discussion. That is why 8121: the draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Possible Violations of Ukrainian Legislation in the Field of Receive, Distribution, Transportation, Storage, Use for Purpose of Humanitarian and Other Assistance, as well as the Inefficient Use of State Property, which may be used for the temporary placement of internally displaced persons and to provide other needs of the State. I'd like to make an offer for a reduced procedure of 8121. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:27:57]] For 260 Decision taken. Please two in favour, two in favor, and we vote against. Which of the factions insists on discussing it, would you say? They insist. Then two in, two in, against, please. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u71	Dear Mr. Head, may I have the floor to speak to Mr. Pottery Alexia?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u72	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, temporary commission investigators is a very important tool of democracy, an important tool of parliamentaryism. We're going to be looking at the questions. But I want to talk to you. I understand that many of you are not interested, I can see that. It's your business. We just put a cross on Parliamentaryism in Ukraine. It's not Geo Leros, it's not what he asked. It's not about Germany, it's not about Pottery, it's about Zelensky, it's not about anyone else. We are today. We'll be gone tomorrow. There were other national MPs yesterday, and the day after tomorrow they'll be completely different. You can't destroy Parliament, you can't have a Ukrainian national deputy elected by the people of Ukraine, no matter how this happened, because he said something in the debate, he threw it out of Parliament. He can't vote anymore, all he can't vote, it's his MP duty. He can't be in a debate. Tomorrow it could be with any one of you. You won't like it, anyone else, I don't know, and any man will be thrown out. You're not dressed like that, you didn't say that, you didn't look like that. You can't do that, it's wrong, it's a red line you can't cross. By this red line -- trouble, by this red line -- authoritarianism, behind it -- the loss of the world's support in this war, because the world won't support another Russia, nobody needs it. The only way to do that is in the Russian Federation's dergeur. Once again, it's not about Geo Leros, it's about the Ukrainian Parliament, which has to stand, and it's about democracy in the state. Stop it, stop it right now until it's too late! Stop right now!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u74	God, I've experienced it for you. Maxim Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, faction of the political party "Slut of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u75	Thank you, Mr. Head, for your word, thank you to all your colleagues. I would like to ask you to support this decision and to add to the members of our interim commission of inquiry other members of the other factions. Because we and our entire temporary tracking commission are actually working on the result, working transparently. We are not afraid of joining members of our temporary commission of inquiry from other factions. I want to thank you very much to all of our "Serves of the People" representatives on this temporary commission of inquiry, Galino, to you, to all those who have joined us from the very beginning. I want to thank my colleagues who really work from other factions: Reverend and Sukhov, Jurchenko, Pavlenko It doesn't matter which faction we're all working on, and most of all, we don't care what names are behind these results. And if one of the governors, from the heads of the district military administrations, forgive me, or the mayors, or other structures will be to blame, and if we consider our temporary commission of inquiry, we'll be punished, again, no matter what names these district administrators put on. If they are guilty of theft, or lack of it, or lack of it, in the complete absence of an audit of the humanitarian aid that went into our country, they should be responsible. We see that now the first results have finally come out, and we've started dealing with it with the law enforcement agencies. I just have one question, why did they start doing this only after they fired this district manager? It is not only when a person has been released from that position that they want to do so. Thank you. Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u76	Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Vladimir Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u78	Cabachenko Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. When the war broke out, many of us began to provide humanitarian aid, and many of us faced the problem that we were transporting this humanitarian aid to Ukraine’s western borders, and during our journey from Western Ukraine to Eastern humanitarian aid either disappeared or decreased significantly. So no matter how many members of this TSC are essentially 15 members of Parliament, it's TSK about all of us, because we all know the problem, we've all been asking questions about people we recognized as thieves, and all of us have been told that we still can't get to the truth. And we did it. Unfortunately, the ruling was registered in September 2022, and we're going back to its consideration just now, in February 23rd, but many of the facts of the theft of humanitarian aid are documented and we have with you today absolutely all legislative grounds. As Secretary of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee, I guarantee that anti-corruption authorities will also deal with this problem, we will solve this problem and more, and I'm sure that in the future, none of us will face the problem when we work with you to provide humanitarian aid, and it disappears. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u80	Please, Pauline. Dear colleagues, look, before I hand over Mr. Pavlovka, my friends, well, we haven't been able to pass the law on what's related to the ZNO, already in the cables. Well, how much longer can I talk to you? Well, let the instinct of self-preservation work out for each of you, if you don't understand it. I think today we have to vote on this bill that has to be. It's terrible, I don't know, on days like this. Please, the word is given to Pavelka Yuri Alexiyovich, "Platform for Life and Peace."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u81	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I really want to confirm the words of my colleague, with whom we have been working together for these months on the interim commission of inquiry, Maxim Tuckenka, that the commission is working primarily for the result. And everyone's as effective and active as possible in her work, especially when we're talking about the board's leadership, and especially you, Maxim Tuckenka, as the engine of this commission's work. During this time, the commission has found many violations, seen many abuses on the part of the various officials and nonstaff who, in these difficult countries of the day, in this difficult year for the country, have tried to make a living on the human mountain, on the mountain that the whole country survives. And unfortunately, there's a lot of people out there yelling out loud about their love for Ukraine and stealing from Ukraine and the Ukrainians at the most difficult time for them, people who have lost everything and very often start their lives at first. I hope that the work of the law enforcement agencies, which has already begun during the work of the interim commission of inquiry, will be actively continued. I welcome new colleagues who will be on the committee. I am confident that it will be a strengthening of their profession and a desire to bring about a system of things so that each kilogram of humanitarian aid can reach the one who needs it in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done. We're done. I'm making an offer. We have concluded our consideration of the matter. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a proposal with regard to the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft regulation amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulation on the establishment of a temporary investigation commission for the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible violations of Ukrainian legislation in the field of procurement, distribution, transportation, storage, use for the purpose of humanitarian and other assistance, as well as the ineffective use of State property, which may be used for the temporary placement of internally displaced persons and the provision of other needs of the State.” (Registration No. 8121) Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:38:24]] For 298 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next one we agreed on without. Orders adopted in general. The next one was arranged without discussion. So I immediately propose, this is 8136, to take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on Amendments to the Supplement to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on Listing, Quantities and Subjects of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Ninth Appeal Committees (Registration No. 8136). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:39:07]] For 295 Decision taken. The next bill is 8355, it's a draft regulation on some of the issues of the normalization of the activities of the State Enterprise "Editing the Voice of Ukraine". I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[13:39:36]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've agreed two minutes from the EC faction and we're voting. Who from the "ES" will be speaking for the "Ukrainian Voice"? There's no one here, is there? Ah, Princey. Please, Mr. Mikola. Dear colleagues, please don't divorce us. After these two minutes, we're voting immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u83	Colleagues, the decision proposes to transfer the only property complex from the state-owned enterprise to the administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Voice of Ukraine was established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then the newspaper Voice of Ukraine is a publication of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the founder of the approved Charter of the Voice of Ukraine. The European Solidarity faction will be held in favour of this draft decision for such reasons. The author of the decree did not justify the urgency of the proposed changes and the need to update the Charter of the Voice of Ukraine right now, especially during the war. To the financial security of the newspaper, this is how it receives funding from the budget through subsidies provided in the funds of the Supreme Council and voted in the Hall. So there's no problem with that either. So far, we don't know any problems with the Voice of Ukraine, which require an emergency response and a change in its status. Instead, for example, problems in the activities of another state-owned enterprise, the Council Parliamentary Television, which operates on the basis of a statute approved by the Supreme Council’s Chief of Staff, have been discussed on more than one occasion. And if we see those media that aren't supposed to be state-owned at all, but that are controlled by MPs, we see that they are balanced. When we see the creation of manual media in line with officials, we see that the end of freedom of speech is coming, and there is a straight path for corruption. You don't have a TV station, do you need a voice from Ukraine? We won't vote for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm proposing a proposal to take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments to the Regulation on some of the issues of the normalization of the activities of the State Enterprise "Editing the Voice of Ukraine". Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:42:38]] For 249 Decision taken. The next 7,320 is a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws concerning the terms of the interim commission of inquiry and the temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under conditions of military, state of emergency. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:43:12]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, will there be an insistence on speaking? It will be. Then write it down: two in, two in, two in. Please, Bogdanec Andri Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u85	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, the bill is very important because in war conditions, many people could not work properly because there were so many locations and there were no answers in the public authorities. For example, our temporary investigation committee on land issues was unable to work properly because the answers were simply not available. And many temporary investigators are actually waiting for this bill to continue their work. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u86	Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u87	I'll ask Sofia to give the word to Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u88	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u89	Thank you. In fact, I realize that it is necessary to continue with the deadlines for temporary investigation committees so that they can do their work effectively. I would only like to see that this is not measured by formal terms and formal procedures, but that we actually get the results and the blames are punished in one way or another. I would like, in particular, to highlight what is happening in the humanitarian field, and the good thing is that the commission is working is waiting for results. But let's face it, we have warehouses in the Chernigow region that, "thank you" to the leadership of the military administration, rotted with products at a time when people needed food. We all understand the situation of Montenegro at the moment of Moscow’s attack. And let's also mention the theft of humanitarian aid in Zaporozhye, where we rotted and reselled food. And let's also remember, as individual deputies, I'm not going to specify from which large factions were handing out a humanitarian in the form of their own aid in the form of their own agitation. So these things, they're critically unacceptable, and I really don't want them to talk in society, shut up, and as a result, someone will quietly go into the woods because these things are unacceptable. Well, you know, maybe we could create another temporary investigation commission to find out what the hell we're sitting here with people from banned parties that actually caused a Moscow invasion. And maybe this temporary investigation commission will find out why the headmistress of one large faction said that they had constructive cooperation with the OPCW. And why the four bills that are now before the Supreme Council don't go into the hall to get rid of traitors both in the Supreme Council and in the local representative bodies. It's time to say goodbye to the Moscows.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u90	The word is given to Slavic Antonini Kerimovni, the MP's "Delivery of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u91	Yes, dear colleagues, very briefly. Our MP group will support this bill on the basis, despite the scientific and expert management's comments. The current legislation provides for an annual deadline for special and follow-up committees. Perhaps in peacetime that is enough to resolve the issues before a commission of inquiry. In wartime, however, certain difficulties arise, so we see an appropriate extension of their activities for a longer period of time. We support the foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u92	Please, Sergey Mikolayovich Eutuszek, the "Fatherland" faction. After that, the Ironman is one minute, and then we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u93	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction understands the need to change the work of temporary investigators or temporary special commissions. It is clear that this rule operates under conditions of war or state of emergency, and we cannot fully work now not only on commissions, but also, as stipulated by legislation, on the Rules Act of Ukraine, and report to the session hall because we have a complex situation. The initiators are asking for this legal act, asking that all the time limits be removed, for which the Fatherland faction will maintain time limits both for the work of the temporary investigator and the temporary special commissions and for their reports in the session hall. I also want to say that this is our parliamentary tool, and I would like, obviously, to have all the temporary investigators or temporary special commissions formed by some kind of parity, eventually this could be a tool for controlling the opposition to power. Unfortunately, though, we see that almost all commissions are headed by leaders. I can give the commission an example of John Krulk's Naftogaz commission, Galina Yanchenko's investors, Michael Cimbaluk's investigation into the mayor's murder in the Poltava region of Kremenchuk. They have their dividends because, for example, in eight years, the Cymbaluca commission has led to court hearings. That is why we support this decision. Take off the time zone, put all the changes on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, final. It will be, won't it? Then please, Ironman. Then the Aresonkov, and then the vote. After a minute, the railroad and the Aresonks, then we vote. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I'll be honest with you, if I'm sorry about something in the MP's career, it's that I didn't immediately realize how powerful and interesting a tool in the hands of national deputies is temporary investigators and special commissions. It's probably the only real form of parliamentary control. So I welcome the initiative of colleagues. I believe that if they lacked time for objective reasons and the start of a war, this position should be taken into account. Of course we'll support it. And all the colleagues who have not yet joined the interim commission of inquiry, there are plenty of them in our Parliament, I just invite you, you want to come to our meetings, you want to join others, it's really important, interesting and, above all, an effective tool for you as a national deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u96	The final word is Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, after which we vote, honourable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, of course, it is vital that we make it possible for our special commissions to work effectively today. But I have a question right now, I'm going to the special committees, their leaders. Please tell us, if you are in a state of war, that you sometimes require information from law enforcement agencies, one that is a state secret. Tell me, why do you need a detailed list of law enforcement agencies noting employees' addresses, other personal information? Where, why do you need this information? And once again, in a state of war, you have to think carefully about what you want to get and what you're going to get afterwards. In general, the "Trust" MP will support everything that concerns efficient work.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the drafting of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the terms of office of temporary investigators and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under conditions of martial law, a state of emergency (legislative registration number 7,320). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:52:45]] For 266 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next 8112 is a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible violations of legislation during the alienation of Ukrainian state property. I'd like to make a suggestion to consider the short-term draft Regulation 8112. Please vote. [[13:53:23]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss whether we can vote? There is a proposal to vote. Then I propose to take into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible violations of legislation during the alienation of Ukraine's state-owned objects located abroad (Registration No. 8112). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:54:09]] For 301 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next bill 905. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian laws prohibiting the dissemination of information on the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the war. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:54:41]] For 256 Decision taken. I propose to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of the consideration of the issue, in accordance with part three of article 50, article 101 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote for that. [[13:55:09]] For 242 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:55:30.]] For 231 Decision taken. So, what? Here we go, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u99	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to the floor by the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I'd call this bill short: boredom. The level of contempt we show ourselves is getting tired of every time. I'm sick and tired of asking for the sole legislative body of our country to hold back at least an hour after the end of our session in order to spread any information about Parliamentary meetings. It's annoying that everyone is constantly dumping this information, doing the breach, and actually being a guide to Parliament's activities. We know that since the first day of the war we have worked with you in this place. Since the first day of the war, Parliament has not fled, has not moved. And so let's make sure that this Parliament can work and not be able to stop its work just because someone really wants to talk about it in a telegraph channel, on a website, on a Facebook page, or on other social networks. Dear colleagues, once again, it's not a question of limitations -- it's a question of how you're going to explain all the information, but stick to one hour so that Parliament can be secure in this difficult period for the State. So I'm addressing every national MP who's here who respects the decisions made by the Supreme Council: support this bill and let's put together a preventive mechanism so that we don't have equal and equal in this room. We are all responsible for the future of this institution, whose name is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u101	Please, Sergey Vitaliovich Calchenko, head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u102	The Honorary Presidium, honourable national deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting on February 21, reviewed draft Law Registration No. 9005, introduced by national deputies Stefanchuk, Kornienk, Kondratuk, and others, only 140 signatures of national deputies representing three parliamentary factions and four parliamentary groups. This project proposes to amend article 19 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine to articles 3, 51, 53 of the Supreme Council's Rules on the Prohibition of Deputies and Other Persons Attending the Plenary, not only People's Deputies, to disseminate in any way information about the time, place, course and outcome of or continuation of the plenary meeting, and to provide responsibility for the violation of these requirements. According to the committee, these changes are right and deserve support. In summary, the committee adopted the conclusion of draft Law 9005 and recommends that Parliament consider it and accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Two for, two for, please sign up. Please, Nemira Grigori Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian union of the Fatherland. Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u104	Dear Chairman, drafter of the bill, other co-authors! Undoubtedly, the question is urgent, because even now, during this plenary meeting, there are our colleagues who continue to disseminate this information at these moments. And that's why the question of security is, no doubt, an urgent question. Now for the mechanism. Dear friends, those who have signed this bill, I address the author. If we're one third -- that's what the bill says, 150 people's deputies have the right to get out of this intruder's room, isn't that an exaggeration? In my opinion, 226 national deputies should adopt such a decision. The second question is no doubt urgent, but we need to make it clear that we will expel a person for five days of a plenary meeting, which is uninterrupted. What does that mean? If this is an ongoing meeting, what five days? Do we expel him for five sessions because the session is continuous? Isn't it going to happen that someone is on the phone at this point, right now, that I'm in the session room, and his neighbor is coming up to the chairman and saying he's divulging the state secret. And they don't just drive a person out of the session room, they don't pay the wages and everything. That's why I have a big request. Our faction will support it in the first reading, but these norms must be regulated because there may be no one left in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u105	Schwaczko Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you all to support this bill, because it's a matter of our own safety. Please vote for him in the first reading, and then perhaps a little work for the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Tsabal, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u108	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u109	Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I sincerely believe that there are people in our hall who represent the elite, including, above all, intellectual. And speaking to each and every one of you separately, it seems to me that everyone understands that, for the safety of the Supreme Council, first of all, you need to go into hiding when you have air anxiety. Let us speak frankly, and we and some other officials have not always done so. Thank you for almost disappearing now. There's a definition of collective intelligence -- it's when big minds come together and create a more powerful intellectual potential. We have a little bit different, and we communicate with each other, and it's like everyone understands that, and when we get together, unfortunately, we believe that photos affect our security. Colleagues, I'm not against this law, I'll tell you frankly, it won't change anything, but, Mr. Head, let's face it, how many times has it been that colleagues from those who signed were the first ones to explain our meetings. Let's face it, how many times has the information about our plenary meeting been spread, including when someone was making a rush from the Supreme Council? And let's be clear about how many times and how many people, including in the Apparatus, from various political forces, including those banned, we've been spreading information about our meetings. Colleagues, I really want us to be safe, but in order for us to be safe, we don't have to adopt laws, we just have to go into hiding when there's air anxiety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u111	Since you have addressed me, I will allow myself to respond. Look, I think the Supreme Council should not only adopt laws, but also implement them, including the decree we made at the beginning of this session on. where questions related to the presentation of activities were raised. And I think we should start by adopting this bill and then doing it all together, because security is our common ground. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please make a final statement, after which we will vote. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u112	Alexi Hotcharenko will be performing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u113	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, what are we so scared of here? What, then, do such frightened ones sit and learn about security? The boys on the front are on the front. There's nothing to worry about that they're on the front. We were sitting here when the Russian army was 30 kilometers away. It wasn't scary, they came and they voted. You can't, you can't broadcast the Supreme Council, you can't talk about the Supreme Council, you can't do anything, you have to find another reason to throw it out of the Supreme Council. But let's get the doors and windows to the Supreme Council, let's make us a black box and live like this. The purpose of this bill is to throw out Hotcharyenko, Ironman, just to throw out the Supreme Council. Don't be so hard on me, my friends. I've been talking about Jermak a lot more than Geo Leros. Come on, get the bill out of here, and that's it. It'll be the best option, don't torture yourself, don't torture people, don't embarrass yourself. I said here exactly a year ago, on February 23, 22, I was talking to the Russians, saying, "Welcome to hell." And you were sitting there laughing, and now you're laughing again. I'm telling you, welcome to the German dictatorship. Do you like it? I won't, I'll never accept it. And these bills you make are a disgrace. You are destroying parliamentaryism in this country, and with this you are destroying the country itself. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u114	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. And then we go to the vote for this bill. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u115	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Of course, the bill is somewhere on the line, as always, before us the question of morality, freedom and everyone's right to express and to limit. Our group will vote in the first reading, because we take into account the characteristics of the state of war, but I'm going to conclude on the following. Once one of the heads of the Supreme Council, such an anecdote had been, speaking to the deputy, saying, "Dear MP, don't jump in the hall, because you're not in the woods. I'm addressing you, your honor, especially those on the edge of the other side of the hall. Well, you can't do that during a meeting. within the political culture to other colleagues to be in the workplace? You're just trying to get in the way of others! Please, the political culture that we are talking about today, let us all answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u116	Haven't the "Serve of the People" spoken yet? Please, Maxim Arkadyovich, 1 minute, Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I certainly support the idea that safety rules should be followed. But I'm sorry, I have some doubts as to whether it's a real post or not. If a person boasts that he really publishes something, that's one thing. But will it not be a provocation against someone? I believe that this is a danger, indeed, from the standpoint of parliamentaryism. I think it's a case where we're risking more than we're protecting, with all due respect for the authors and what they're trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u118	Maxime Arkadyovich, look, if there are risks, there's a second reading. We will be happy to consider all of your amendments to this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt a draft Act to amend certain Ukrainian laws prohibiting the dissemination of information on the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the war (registration number 9005). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:09:21]] For 234 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the committee has yet to offer a cut in the half - time period for proposals and amendments to the second reading. Please, I'm making this offer. Please vote. [[14:09:49]] For 216 The offer didn't pass. So there will be a normal time to prepare. Dear colleagues, the following Bill 7253. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Geographical Names Act on the decolonization of toponymy and the organization of the use of geographical names in Ukrainian locations. We have, I understand. Oh, Lozinski, please come here. We have three amendments, yes, I understand. Bujansky told me. Four repairs. Maksim Arkadijovich, call the number of the amendment, then the grounding, the denial and the voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I ask you not to support Amendment 10 concerning monuments. In the event of the adoption of a bill that takes account of this amendment, such as a monument to a Ukrainian, the best exterminator of World War II, Kozedubu, cannot be established. For example, the monument to General Derevyanka, who accepted Japan’s surrender, could not be established because they held command positions in the lavary of the Red Army, the Soviet Union’s army. This is about our history, the history of our victories. I'm asking you not to support this exercise.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u120	Wait a second. Are you just going to put the papers in for confirmation or for your own? Oh, just for confirmation. All of it. Let me ask you a question. No one's going to make an adjustment? Nobody. Then, for confirmation, amendment number five. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know. One second. What's the number? You said the 5th first. 10, Amendment 10. Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, number 10, which was named. This is one of the basic rules of the bill for it to actually work. In particular, in addition to the 10, a number of other rights, they contain implementation mechanisms so that this law cannot be sabotaged in practice. If this amendment is supported right now, what was said is going to turn this bill into a campaign. So please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u122	On the contrary.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u123	Please support and maintain this amendment, it must remain in order for the bill to actually work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u124	Thank you. Roman Mikhailovich, if you please, one second. I'm explaining the situation. Amendment 10 of Lozinski's authorship is partially considered by the committee, but Maksim Arkadyovich makes this decision to the committee for confirmation. Roman Mikhailovich explained why it should be confirmed, and he gave his argument. So I'm betting on confirming the committee's decision to take part in the 10th amendment. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:13:31]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Please take the next amendment number, Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, next amendment 5. Once again, we no longer have the Ideological Monuments because of the Decommunization Law. Now we are talking about the monuments of our history, the Ukrainians who protected our country from Nazism. And in the fight against Nazism, it is not possible to destroy the monuments of the Ukrainians who fought against Nazism and defeated it. I remind you that when this law was voted on in the first reading, nothing like it was there, it appeared later. I ask you to abstain from voting and not vote in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, one second. I'm so aware that the previous amendment, she's decided a lot of things, I'm afraid. So, dear fellows, I have an offer like this. Let us re-vote the second in order to save the bill, and in order to. and limit the amendments to five days. Okay? Come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, why? Look, dear fellows, this is to save our time. [[B in m in s a l in]] One second. Bujanski against, does he want to make all the adjustments to these? Well, if one is broken, it's gone and there's no support in the hall, so factions and groups are testifying. Why should we use this time? Dear colleagues, is there an offer, then, there's no denying that I'm going to put the second right now and cut the lines? No suggestions, no respectable colleagues? Look, dear colleagues, we have to fail the committee's decision first, we have to vote second again, that's what I understand. There'll be no objection in principle? Then let's see, I have a proposition like this. I'm going to put the committee's decision right away -- we're not going to support it, then I'm going to put the second reading back up -- we're going to support and then we're going to support the cuts. Okay? Then, dear fellows, no objection to the hall? Thank you. I then propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Geographical Names Act on the decolonization of Toponymy and the organization of the use of geographical names in the population of Ukraine (registration No. 7253). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:17:04]] For-48 Dear colleagues, as agreed, will make the next decision. I propose that draft Law No. 7253 be re-readed. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:17:33]] For 264 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, come on, I'm proposing that we cut back on the half-time preparation for re-second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:17:56]] For 265 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Who's with the procedure? Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u127	Dear friends, in this room I witnessed an absolute majority vote on laws that had not passed, bills or amendments, ten, fifteen times. I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council now for not allowing the Rules to be violated now, for not putting what has been failed once again to the vote, thus confirming that the Chief of the Supreme Council is still very clear on the Rules. I want to thank you for this, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u128	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrical, thank you. This is thanks to the entire Supreme Council, because that's how we all work. Please, who from the procedure? Windstorm. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u129	Dear national colleagues, once we have failed this amendment, we have essentially blocked one very important bill that should become the key to the mechanism for the decolonization of Ukraine. Under the cover of memory of Ukrainians who fought in the Red Army, some MPs defend "Russian peace" in Ukraine. So I ask very careful attention to this bill in the second reading, so that now, one year after a full-scale invasion, we continue to protect the "Russian world" and its markers in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! From Bujansky's procedure, from the procedure. Come on, Bujansky, out of procedure. And we're going to 9027. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u131	I'd like to remind my honorary colleague, Volodymyr, he probably doesn't know one year after a full-scale invasion, one day before the anniversary of the invasion, that we have a criminal offence if someone supports the so-called "Russian peace" if someone supports the aggressor country. So if Mr. Volodymyr is aware of this, he should immediately contact the law enforcement agencies, the Ukrainian Security Service, with a criminal claim. Otherwise, he is a guide to the criminal. And if it's not, if it's his own opinion, then every day when Ukrainians die protecting our country, it's shameful to speculate on such things. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! Listen, let's get this over with. Dear colleagues, there was a question -- there was an answer. From the procedure? Please, Princey, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have also considered this project in the Committee of Humanitarian Policy. In the same committee there are two other projects on humanitarian decolonization signed by many deputies, one of which I am involved, the other prepared by my colleague, Poturayev, as an alternative. Unfortunately, all of these projects together were not able to be brought together because they were blocked. Why didn't it work? It's because, for example, in our projects, there's a definition of this "Russian world," which is supposed to be protected by a representative of the ruling faction, and the ruling faction doesn't bring it into the hall. Mr. Head, I very much ask you, this is a systematic approach, to put all these projects into the hall and vote them together in the nearest possible way to ban "Russian peace" in Ukraine legislatively. Both this law and the other two on humanitarian decolonization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next bill. Today, we only vote on issues related to shorter periods. This is Bill 9027, this is the draft law amending Chapter X of the Act on Public Procurement on the possibility of altering the terms of the procurement contract. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[14:22:24]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee's decision is to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for introducing alternative bills by half. So I'm putting the committee's decision as a proposal for Bill 9027. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:22:57]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this is how we go to the edge today. The next bill, colleagues, is 5344, 5344-1, 5344-2, 5343-3, 5344-d. So I'm going to propose that we look at these projects in a simplified way. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:23:39]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you then and I'm proving that we've agreed that all the authors will speak on this bill. Yes, the authors, and then: two in favour, two in opposition. Please invite me to the floor of the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Žolnović Oksana Ivanovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u135	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! I bring you to your knowledge, I present a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to create favourable conditions for the employment of people with disabilities. I would very much like to pay particular attention to this bill, because, first of all, it's an integration bill. Secondly, today's situation regarding the employment of people with disabilities is unfortunately critical. These people are getting bigger, we have complex disabilities -- people are left without arms, no legs, no limbs. But unfortunately, today we don't have the right proposals and answers for these people, especially with regard to their reintegration and employment. Regrettably, existing administrative sanctions mechanisms do not fill the Social Protection Fund for people with disabilities. We practically did not raise the funds this year because the numerical mechanisms for avoiding the payment of this administrative congregation do not allow it to be effectively administered. The bill, which has been completed, has been completed by a huge number of public organizations and employers and by the committee, provides for completely new mechanisms to support the employment of people with disabilities. These mechanisms are Europeanly adapted, and this is an experience, particularly in Poland. We are increasing the support of employers. We reduce the pressure on private business because we are expanding the scope of the congregation, including by public enterprises. We're increasing the number of support for a specific employee by providing social assistance. Unlike manipulations, we don't take support from any social enterprise, but we let everyone enter this market without a choice. I'm asking you very much to support 5,344 worked out, because this will allow us to move forward and provide a much better working environment for people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u136	Thank you. I invite the author of the following bill, Julius Volodymyrný Timoshenko, to an alternative, please. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u137	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the distinguished national MPs! In fact, the question that we are considering right now, I agree with the Minister, is very and very urgent. Because that number of people with disabilities, which now accounts for 2 million more than 700,000, is unfortunately getting larger and larger. During the aggression of the Russian Federation, we are well aware that this will be a challenge for future society and for future power. How can they be employed? In fact, Julia Timoshenko and I, in our bill, propose a slightly different approach to our view than the authors of the committee's main amended bill. We're still proposing to take into account the position of the Disabled People's Association, because we've come up with several suggestions to preserve the mechanism that exists, but to offer an alternative. If we're UTOS and UTOS, and these are the major social organizations today that bring together the disabled and give them jobs, we're going to get rid of this process, it's not going to be completely stately. We agree that there are things in these organizations that need to be eradicated. And we're in the Committee on Social Policy, protecting veterans' rights, we've talked about this over and over and over again, and we encourage them to cooperate. That's why we think it's our alternative bill that can be more effective. And please support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u138	Thank you, Mikhailovich. I'd like to have a word with you. I understand Kaltsov won't be speaking. According to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights, Trelyakov Galina Mikolayevna. It's from both the authors and the committee. So four minutes, please, Galina Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u139	Thank you. I'm actually the author of 3 and I'm going to speak from the committee. And I'm going to start, probably, not the way I always do it, formally, but I want to read you a woman's quote. We have all women perfect in Ukraine, but there is a perfect woman who has prepared such a guide on integrity and says that integrity begins with each one of us. In Ukraine there are men and women, children, young people, older people, representatives of different nationalities, skin color, and health. We are all different, but despite our differences, each of us deserves respect, security, respect, and development. Sadly, however, many people today face social obstacles. Ukraine needs to build its own colorlessness gradually, steadily, but with what start? What depends on each of us? I'll leave, you'll look at this manual. We have three spaces: public space, labour space at work, and we have personal space. Bill 5344 only applies to labour relations, it doesn't tell us yet how we're going to change the public space that now applies to the Ministry of Infrastructure Recovery. We're not talking about how we have to reinvent every person's life. This is what the committee cares about, and I think we're going to put in extra laws for your consideration. But working relationships need to be modernized. In a bill that has such a complex destiny, because three alternatives, and then it's worked out. We worked on it, as the Minister of Social Policy said, with experts. This amended bill contains standards that deprive us of the Soviets. You know there's a 4-percent quota, it only works for the private sector, but it doesn't cover the public sector. Ukraine, as usual, went the other way around. This bill introduces such quotas primarily to the public service, to the service of local self-government. And such a quota must be implemented, not simply by setting people up, but by providing them with intelligent, ergonomic places so that this barrierlessness is not on paper, so that this barrierlessness can really be realized. In order to transform jobs, the employer needs a resource, not just fines or fines, provided for in the bill. We offer business instead of a fine, by reducing it by 40 percent, by 40 percent of the fine that a business can pay, by paying a benefit as a corporate social responsibility. That's why this bill and resources have been found. What has not been done in this bill? That's what Gregory Mamka said on the Conciliation Council. There is no part of the responsibility for each of us to maintain this integrity. We're going to make a separate bill, and Mr. Degnera and I are headed by the State Department, and the Ministry of Social Affairs started working on it. The concept is already written, I've passed it on to the Conciliation Council for the Heads of factions, it's in the Secretary of our faction. We're going to write this bill of responsibility, this is the first reading, we have to do the first steps, we have to do it because we're all different. Thank you in advance to those who support this bill, and I would like to remind you that in our committee, the examination of rights and every national MP does not perform the function of furniture, he introduces the regulations, and these are considered essentially by the participation of scientists, representatives of the central executive authorities, and all of these thoughts are taken into account. With regard to this bill, more than 100 social organizations that also employ people, as well as those organizations that have all-U.S. status in Soviet times, are willing to support this bill. Let us spread this monopoly to other organizations that can be unchallenged.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u140	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, I ask the factions and groups to sign up: two in favour, two in opposition. And then we're going to vote. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Nastavajchenk, Valentina Alexandrovich, the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u141	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u142	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please. I'm asking you to release the passage, Your Honor. No, I'm here to see your colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, this is 5344. I'd like you to know what this is about. This is a law that essentially annuls much of the support of disabled people in Ukrainian legislation. I have the address of a public association called the All-Ukrainian Social Union of the National Assembly of People with Disabilities of Ukraine, which is taking a firm stand against this law. I want to remind you that if people with disabilities were involved in the war as a result of different circumstances, during and after the war these preferences for the disabled would be used by our soldiers who were disabled during the war. Which cancels just so you know. First. The State’s responsibility for creating a barrierless space has been reversed. The other one. An exception is the rule that required the authority to involve persons with disabilities in the preparation of decisions concerning the rights and interests of persons with disabilities. All the benefits given to disabled businesses are excluded. We have just discussed, and at the committee meeting, we have discussed that when people with war disabilities come in, they need to be given benefits, businesses, businesses, and benefits, and that other businesses should be able to keep the quota for the employment of persons with disabilities. Now that he was speaking to the government, he said he was asking and supporting the employers. Yes, that's right, this law exempts employers from any obligation to disabled persons. We can't let go.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, please, please, Tzabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "The Voice."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, I have one big point to this bill: it was submitted four more sessions ago, and we're only now accepting it. Unfortunately, we have made very little room for disabled people to create a barrierless space. We've done very little. And this law had to be passed a long time ago. Unfortunately, we have a very large distance from Europe to which we are oriented. This law addresses only one aspect, which is the aspect of working space. It does not address the aspect of personal space or the aspect of public space. But I'm sure it should be a start. As far as criticizing this bill is concerned. I understand why this criticism is taking place. Because some, some political powers, some organizations have a status quo: that funding happens only to monopolistic organizations that have already received this monopoly in Soviet times, there is no competition for the performance of the state's function, the creation of jobs for people with disabilities. This is the law that we're going to create this competition. Accordingly, all organizations will be able to compete for government resources to improve, and we all know that competition always improves services, and in this case it is about improving the performance of state functions, creating a barrier-free space for people with disabilities. So, colleagues, I urge you to support this bill. Yes, we also have a point. For example, we are not comfortable with the fact that only 40 percent of the average wage can be paid instead of employment. We think it should be more. But these remarks, I'm sure, we'll take them all into account in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u146	Thank you. Please, Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u147	Let's start with terminology. We don't use the word disabled, we use the word disabled. And there's a principle of distinction that some people don't understand, but it's really a principle. Now let's essentially give it to you. What has become of the movement to protect the rights of people with disabilities in Ukraine? Let's be honest and let's face it, don't lie to each other. It's a business, it's a business of several families in Ukraine who, using this brand, just make money. More than a hundred organizations are in charge of this problem. Why are organizations that can be counted on one hand's fingers beneficiaries and aids, and any other benefits from this very important, very sensitive topic in society? And doesn't it have to be stopped after all? Stop it in such a way as to make the rules that are unified with the European Union. After all, really, I completely agree with the Cabal, the bill has been unacceptably long on the committee. The bill actually introduces the standards that people with disabilities need to protect their rights, not those who earn money on the subject today in Ukraine. Four percent of private companies is what? This is a tax that every private company now has to pay, even in the war of taxes they pay, instead of taking care of this norm and taking care of these duties. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final speech is Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". And after this speech, I invite the national deputies to prepare themselves for the vote. Please, Mikhaylo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, will come back from the war and return very many boys, girls who will continue to receive the status of a disabled person. And I want to remind you that they're all, on their way back, full members of society, full-fledged. And so I'm not talking about the benefits that they have, but the fact that they also have the right to work, they have the right to live like everyone else in that life. I've gone to hospitals many times, I see guys with no limbs, girls standing in queues, in crazy queues, and no one's settling it now, and they're really treating them like those in the background in that society. And first of all, not only is our state medical, but the social dimension should be promoting these people in this life. So in terms of employment, in terms of the state's attitude towards people with disabilities, there has to be a complex approach, which we don't see, unfortunately, in those bills. That's why "European Solidarity" will abstain from voting for these laws. We will monitor and make sure that we make adjustments to those laws for the second reading, and we will stand up for them on the committees. In the future, we will see what they will be like when they change, and then we will make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, and I ask the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, the committee's decision to base 5344 with the "d" badge, that's why I'm gonna put it on. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Ready, fellows of honor? Faster, colleagues, faster, faster jobs. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities to work (project registration number 5344-d). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[14:43:56]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's send him right back. And the next one, you see that there will be no potential. Well, let's vote next. Well, let's go through this cycle, let's send it on a cycle. I ask your support, Your Honor, 5344 with an "d" badge, a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities to work. I'm proposing that this bill be sent back for re-reading. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much to support us not to lose this important Euro-Integration Bill. Please vote. [[14:44:57]] For 245 Decision taken. I went to read again. Too bad there's so much work to be done. All right, let's move on. 7731, this is a draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine to establish additional grounds for the termination of the employer's employment contract and some other issues. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[14:45:39]] For 217 Decision taken. Two for, two for, and we vote? Dear colleagues, can we do without a vote? No discussion, I'm sorry. Let's not vote. As discussed, yes, Julia Volodymyrna? Discussing? Then write it down: two for, two for, please. Andrew Mikhailovich Herus, "Serial of the People" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u151	Please proceed to the vote and make a decision on the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u152	Beautiful. Please, Zabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u153	Please pass the word to the Engineer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u154	Engine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u155	Colleagues, I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u156	Thank you. Fantastic. Dear colleagues, and the final performance is the Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction. And then we vote, please don't split.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u157	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Presidium, Colleagues! In fact, the subject is very important that is raised in this bill. Because there's a certain number of businesses that work in that territory that are already freed from occupations or that are in areas that are bordering on war. That's why there's a problem with managers, how to get rid of those people who don't comply with the current legislation under the article "colaboration," and they don't really serve the Ukrainian state. What's going on here? Because of this faction of Fatherland, where there are sufficiently well-balanced and experienced lawyers, there was a discussion about how to write in such a way as to protect the interests of the state, to support the position of leaders, but not to go down to the level of legal nihilism, when any leader can use this law to free the employee, perhaps with insufficient or intentional motives. We are concerned about the definition of "out of reasonable doubt" and how this reasonable doubt will be determined. Such a standard can also lead, as I said, to a well - founded dismissal of a worker. Because we're not going to support this bill in the first reading, but we're already pre-drafting, and if they're taken into account, basic and important, then we'll support it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to making a decision. I ask the National Deputies to prepare for the vote. Ready? Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Labour Code to establish additional grounds for the termination of the employment contract on the initiative of the employer and on some other issues, in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:50:17]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, the next bill is very important, Euro-integrational. We agreed with our colleagues that there would be a speech by Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko, and then we would vote. It's 7628, it's a bill on collective agreements and agreements. It's a second reading. I'll ask you to stay put, within 10 minutes -- Julia Volodymyrna, and we're voting for this important Euro-Integration Bill. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, I would like first of all to thank all those who have not supported the bill on the deprivation of persons with disabilities of all possible State support. It was the wise decision of the hall, and who wants to know how well you did it, just read this bill and you'll realize that instead of supporting our returning soldiers, don't God give them, not completely healthy, but with disabilities at home, that they have somewhere to go to work and how to protect their lives. And I hope that there is still a bill concerning the deprivation of the right to benefit people with disabilities that will not be voted in this room. It is a sign that not everyone is ready for such vileness. Now we're talking to you about another Bill 7628 on collective agreements and agreements. In order to understand what they're changing, I want to tell you how it works now. The international instruments adopted by the International Labour Organization are European instruments that are also in force today, and all of these documents are strictly designed for the role, place and functions of the collective agreement. What is a collective agreement? When an enterprise between a working group and an employer has a contract that provides for a strict, legally defined list of the rights of workers that the employer cannot circumvent. What is it? First of all, the duration of the work day, it's guaranteed weekends, it's a guaranteed vacation, guaranteed assistance to people who have suffered from production, and many other issues that relate to how a person working without an unconditional release, how a working person is protected from inequities in pay, how a person is protected in that it will actually be worth a wage based on a minimum of living and minimum wage. All of this is stipulated by law as the fundamental points of the collective agreement, and a collective agreement between the employer and the collective cannot ignore these positions that are enshrined in the law. It's a rule, a rule that works internationally. What do we have to offer? We are now offered, now, if this law is adopted, it is not necessarily necessary to include in collective agreements those positions that have been reached in 300 years by the world’s unions as defined by the International Labour Organization, the European Union. And it says here that in a collective agreement everything is optional, there is nothing necessary: the employer wants to include – includes, does not want – does not include. The status of the collective agreement is reduced to virtually zero. It can't be, there's no such thing in the world. And now that you're told it's a Euro-integration law, it's a lie. Why Deception? Because when all of these bills began, which invalidate the rights of working people, we met twice with the head of the International Labour Organization. This is a structure that is part of the United Nations. And we passed on these bills to the International Labour Organization for expertise. And now this kind of expertise is ready, and you can see it on the International Labour Organization website, where just a stone on a rock has not been left out of it, sorry, a keg that today contradicts both European laws and rules and the rules of the International Labour Organization. I can tell you that if this is accepted, this will be the basis for the claims that the International Labour Organization will present to the government of Ukraine. And recently, the ILO launched an online meeting with trade unions, employers and the government, where a very clear new director-general of the International Labour Organization made it clear that this was unacceptable. In addition, when such liberal bills began to appear in the paws, we also met with global unions of the European Union and the world. And after learning what's being accepted here, they said that they're becoming a team with us so that they don't miss out on the European Commission level. Who's lobbying? Who is lobbying such documents? They are not in the Ukrainian Parliament. They are brought in from the outside, when corporations that are planning or having already entered or are planning to enter Ukraine, they need Ukrainians to be absolutely ineligible so that they are not able to defend themselves at all. And if Parliament during the war, when people on the front, from their jobs went to defend Ukraine, and then they came back, and they had no right: neither people with disabilities nor our soldiers returning to their jobs -- because such collective agreements would be impossible to protect. I ask you not to vote for such documents. In total, 32 bills have been submitted to the Supreme Council that contradict the international conventions of the International Labour Organization. For all of them, we've submitted all the papers for analysis and analysis. And now the conclusions are that they can't be accepted, they're not European laws. We will certainly, if this practice continues, join with the global unions on the European Commission, on the appropriate committees, and we will do everything we can to ensure that such practices in Ukraine do not have the right to act, because this is nihilism, this is essentially the destruction of the rights of working people. Please don't vote for this law. Well, the apopheus of this entire story was that on the site of one of the committee leaders there was such a wonderful story that, as it were said, Ukraine would reform the International Labour Organization, which is worthless, no one needed, which is absolutely bureaucratic. And Ukraine will reform the International Labour Organization because it protects the rights of working people. I think there's a limit to this situation, I don't want to just use hard words right now, but this limit depends on what you're all ready to use. If you're willing blindly, without studying the laws, to vote for all of this as "goodyums," then why have people posted you here if you're incapable of defending their rights? If you're protecting this story side by side, if you're building liberalism, then read the basics of this ideology, where there is a compulsory socio-oriented market economy. And one of the biggest parties in the European Union is called the European People's Party, which has an absolute majority in the European Parliament, is based, on its ideological basis, on a market-based, socio-oriented market economy. That's the foundation. What are you doing, what are you doing? I ask you, those people who have intellectual abilities in this room are going to serve the people of Ukraine, serve the people, stop this vachanal! The Social Committee has become an antisocial committee that destroys even international rules and order. Please don't vote for this law, it's totally against people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, we've just finished discussing this bill. The only thing that came up was a representative of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the European Union of Lyubta Dmitry Valeriyovich. Please give me a few minutes. And, dear colleagues, please take your seats. We're going to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u161	Congratulations, colleagues. The Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the European Union considered the draft law before its first reading at its meeting on October 3, 2022, in accordance with article 93 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, as well as the second reading on February 21, 2023. The Committee's conclusion on the results of the first and second readings: the draft law does not conflict with Ukraine's international and legal obligations in the field of European integration and European Union law, as well as with Ukraine's commitments under the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it turns out, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Tsabal, do I understand? Two minutes and we vote. Please don't split, we'll vote after this. Take your seats. Ah, Ruššin, Ruššin, I'm sorry. Rustling.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u163	Thank you, Your Honor. But I'd like to remind a lot of people in this room about this, where there were calls for the intellectuality of those who are sitting here, and we have social responsibility for a Ukrainian citizen in Ukraine for taking over the state first, and this is stated in the preamble to our Constitution. The company does not take on this responsibility; it does it more than enough by creating a job at the company. So the principle has finally emerged in our legislation, the principle of volunteering, which we have forgotten about. If there's no company, who's to blame? The employer. If the company is not in business, who is to blame? The employer. If there is no collective agreement on the company, who is to blame? The employer. How many bloodstains have they had in us for the past 30 years in order for us to have the extra, completely unnecessary documents in our businesses. Instead of doing competition and competitiveness, we do unnecessary bureaucratic things. Our people are now protecting Europe from this horde, and they can afford the luxury of socialist ideas that are happening in Europe. We can't afford that. We have to turn into an employer country, so it's very agreeable that at last the principle of voluntary signature of collective agreements is introduced by this legislation. I call, on the contrary, to vote in favour of this law, and we have to show exactly the example of Europe that we still have the kind of thing that we need to be in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u164	Julia Volodymyrna, I'm sorry, there were two amendments you were supposed to make yet, and then we're voting. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Name the numbers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u165	170th and 192nd. First 170. Dear friends, I cannot help but respond to the feedback of the employer who said that our country must become a country of employers. I just want to remind you that the basis for the relationship in general in the European Union between employers and businesses, and working people, is called tripartism. It's called a social dialogue. And if employers break it now, that means that our country is completely out of the context of the European Union. And so please, don't do this, don't vote for this law, don't humiliate Ukraine. And I'd like to ask you to put it on the stand right now and not vote for 170 amendments that deprive the unions of the right to exist at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u166	Please, the position of the committee is Babenko Mikola Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, in fact, this bill has been the result of a serious compromise between the unions and employers. One of the main reasons for achieving this compromise was what we saved for. Actually, we haven't saved it, but we've agreed that the Supreme Council will keep by trade the right to get 0.3, the primary professional organizations will get 0.3 percent of the workers' pay. So, as I understand it, Julia Volodymyrna is now putting these clearances in place and we're asking her not to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, 170 amendments to the People's Deputy Strunevich. It's considered editorially. Julia Volodymyrna asks that the committee's decision be confirmed. I'll bet you 170. The committee does not deny that it does not support the committee’s decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sorry, sometimes we can't figure it out. The complex laws, the complex materials, they are. Galino Mikolayevno, again. Galina Mikolayevno, you can do it then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, 170 revisions. It's considered editorially. You heard the committee's position, the position of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. She's asking for a decision from the committee -- taken into account in an editorial way -- to put it on confirmation. Please vote. [[15:07:34]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 192. Isn't that right, Julia Volodymyr? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, I think the committee here will explain all of this because this is also about supporting the union movement. But I want to call the whole hall now. It's a system law, it systematically destroys such a fundamental thing as tripartism, the cooperation of trade unions, employers and working people. It ruins the social dialogue as such. And whatever changes have now been voted on, I ask all the people who want to maintain balance in the country, protect the rights of the working people, international law, international documents of the International Labour Organization who want to join the European Union in a normal manner, do not vote in favour of this law. It contradicts everything I've told you. I ask you not to vote categorically, because after that there will be trouble in the government, and that will be absolutely true.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u170	Please take the position of the 192nd Amendment Committee, author of the Third.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u171	Once again, we ask for the whole bill to be supported. As amended, please identify yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u172	What do you mean, identify yourself? Do you support it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u173	The Board of Corrections supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u174	It's very difficult for you. Dear colleagues, 192 revisions of Tymoshenko. Oh, my God, third-class authorship. Timishenko's putting her on the stand. She's a committee member. The committee insists that the decision remain. So please, Your Honor, vote. [[15:09:34]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let us move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. Prepare to vote, everyone prepare. I propose to adopt the draft Collective Agreements and Contracts Act (registration number 7628) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:10:16]] For 261 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on, dear friends. The next 8205 is a draft law on the characteristics of termination by the owner of state-owned enterprises and companies, with more than 50 percent of the shares (part) in statutory capital belonging to the State. I would like to propose a brief consideration of this bill. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:10:58]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-against, we need to discuss this. Please sign up: two in, two in. Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich, "Fatherland" faction, please. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, the law is, in my opinion, very controversial, and the view of our faction, because the key notions of what a state enterprise is, how to manage a 50 percent stake in a state, are clearly defined in the Code of Lords. And so we're very surprised if you really wanted to change this order, you had to make exactly the changes to the corresponding articles of the Code of Lords, because in the end, we're going to get the Code of Lords, which clearly defines this order, and the novels of the law that would contradict the corresponding articles of the Code of Lords. Why is this being done? Imagine that there is a government package that accounts for more than 50 percent of the business where there is another package that belongs to private owners. So there's a new order here, how this package is going to be put on privatization. If you really want a transparent competition, if you really want to get the maximum costs, first thing you have to do. First of all, we can't do this right now in terms of war. And this is actually going to go into preparation for the sale of a government package in wartime. Are you going to sell your property now? Look what's happening with the market today. And when it's proposed to do so with state-owned enterprises, with state-owned enterprises that actually define the most important sectors. We're going to end up with zero revenue, but we're going to get a situation where the state loses control. That's why our faction won't be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u176	Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I call on the entire House to support this bill, it's not political, it's about defrosting the privatization that we can't do right now, specifically about liquidation, I'll tell you in detail right now, and allow the Maintenance Fund to sell the property that is now in liquidation, so that this money can then be used for the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Because we now have hundreds of items in disposal, only two objects were eliminated last year. In fact, the State has long been able to get money out of liquidation, and it cannot get it, the objects are being simplified, they are being made by the corrupts who had earned it before, and the state has zero. This law will partially unlock it. First of all, it will allow for increased competition among liquidators so that liquidators can be paid more depending on the efficiency of their work without further involvement. That's the first one. Second, he will allow the sale of property in the liquidation phase, if its market value exceeds 20 percent of the loan debt, it will allow it to sell. What does that mean? That means that the property that we've had in liquidation years before, because there's a large loan debt, you can't sell, and the creditors are suffering because they can't get their money, and the state because the state can't sell it. Once the law has been passed, it will be possible to sell if more than 20 percent of the nation is received from above. Accordingly, this 20 percent or higher will go to the state and the rest will go to creditors who have been waiting for years. Colleagues, asking for support, there's no politics here, it's a very necessary law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u178	Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna, after which we will go to the vote. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u179	Please pass the word to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u180	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u181	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the bill proposes to create a rapid mechanism for shutting down state enterprises and companies that are economically inactive. But these causes are different during the war period. The war in the east, in the north, showed today that many businesses are being moved to other regions. And today, to shape, to regulate the ability to implement property in the process of putting an end to owners' decisions in order to satisfy long-term debt does not correspond to real industrial production during the war period. The other one. This is a direct contradiction between the functioning of the Master Code, that is, the law, and the period during which we want to establish a state of war. At the same time, GNEU has made clear a number of observations and disagreements with existing legislation, and many bills need to be amended. The third important question. What if we introduce new rules during the war of those enterprises that have been transferred to other regions, we're talking about illogical sales and suspicions about the desire for hidden privatization of state property, and from here we're talking about corruption that is now in possession. We will refrain from supporting the bill. At the same time, what I'm saying is that when we give the sole owner of a state-owned enterprise the opportunity to create a special fund to which the remaining costs will be counted when we talk about an estimate of 20 percent. And where is the position of the government after the incarceration? Where is the position of other committees that speak of the abuse of hidden privatization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u182	Please, Mokchan Aleksei Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People." Dear colleagues, after that we vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u183	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This bill is extremely important in order to regulate matters of government ownership. In all, there are some 3.5 thousand state enterprises in Ukraine. Of these, about a thousand and 200 are eliminated. So these are businesses that are actually inactive or have signs of insolvency, that is, they can be eliminated in bankruptcy proceedings according to the bankruptcy code. Other businesses, it's either actually a table and a chair, or they have certain assets that can be sold, but they don't actually value anything to go into bankruptcy procedures that are expensive. Thus, there is a mechanism for enterprises that exist on paper and that do not perform any functions to implement such a procedure. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Let's move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt a draft law on the characteristics of termination as decided by the owner of state-owned enterprises and companies with a statutory capital of more than 50 per cent of the shares (parts) belonging to the State (registration number of draft Law 8205). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:20:29]] For 244 Decision taken, colleagues. Next bill, 8250. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Property Fund for Ukraine to optimize the structure of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[15:21:04]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please two in favor, two in favour. Can we not discuss this, colleagues? Discussed. Two, two, against that, please. Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u185	Please pass the word to Mr. Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u186	Zabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I'll come a little bit further. Why do we have a lot of corruption in various, let's say, regions and so forth? Because not even the most honest head of this body, the most honest director of the ministry, organization, or others, can control what is happening on the scene. This law is very simple. This law is about correcting the mistake that we have now in the Maintenance Fund. Colleagues from other factions rightly pointed out that there were many different cases of privatization and other cases in previous years. And that's exactly what's going on, because in the regions, it's not always the manager who sees what's going on, first. And secondly, it's not always possible to influence that. This law, it restores the ability to control the leadership of the holding body with the special status that we as the Supreme Council appoints, and allows us to deal with the problems that have accumulated in recent years. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u188	Please give the floor to the people's MP, Mr. Mukshan Aleksija Vasilovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, what is the State Property Fund? The State Property Fund is an organization, it's a sales and government asset management agency. When Ukraine became independent, the State Property Fund had to have regional divisions in every area and in many cities, because all property was state property. Today reality has changed, and today half of the fund's processes are digitized, the sale is done not on offline auctions with a hammer, but on electronic auctions where you can participate from your smartphone. Therefore, it is necessary to unite the State Property Fund and give them authority to perform the real functions of the Agency for Governance and Privatization. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u190	Please, Sergey Mikolayovich Eutuszek, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u191	Please pass the word to Mikhail Zimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u192	Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u193	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Thank you, colleague Sergio Eutuska, for your word. It's actually a bill. The authors had no idea what their goal was. Why? Because the rights of a legal person are being reduced or denied, I emphasize, all the regional departments. That is, the fullness of power will take place in one hand, in the head of the Holding Foundation. Next thing. Deputy heads of the Holding Foundation are appointed, not by the Cabinet of Ministers, as is the case today, but by the Head of the Fund. Next. There is no limit on the number of such substitutes. Because of this, respectable colleagues, it is a risk of concentration, I say softly, of authority in one hand. I understand that the Supreme Council voted and appointed the head of the Holding Foundation, but responsibility must also be for those who voted in favour of the bill. Because we have to understand the risks and the risks that, unfortunately, it's not yet up to investors to buy government property. What needs to be done is to keep track and audit of all the enterprises that are currently managed by the Maintenance Fund clearly. But if this bill becomes that mechanism for improving the work, there is great doubt. Because of that, the "Paternity" team will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u194	Please, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Dear colleagues, after this performance, we vote, take your seats. Please, Mikhaylo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u195	Thank you. Please give it to my colleague, Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u196	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u197	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, you know this bill on optimizing the structure of the State Property Fund enhances the transparency of the sales agency and the understanding of price policy in the market. In 2016, when the law was passed and the State Property Fund was given the right to apply in Prozorro. Selling small privatization allowed for the removal of many corruption issues and for the answer in general to those who took part in transparent sales competitions. The bill proposes to amend the State Property Fund, to define the effective structure of the State Property and Units Funds. In view of what is going on in the war in eastern Ukraine in many areas, there cannot be a legal separation in the north and a regional office, a representation based on the decisions of the main state property, a major fund that today carries additional risks. The Regional Office of the State Property Fund does not have legal status. And to this day, they have the opportunity to use effective and to assess the risks of any sale of an object that passes. The heads of the regional departments are assigned to office, and this is clearly described in the law today. The adoption of the bill will increase not only the head of the fund but also the responsibility of the Head of the State Fund in the administration of the institution. We will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, and we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please prepare to make a decision. Dear colleagues, take your seats. Take your seats. We're getting ready to make a decision. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the drafting of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Property Fund for Ukraine on the optimisation of the structure of the Ukrainian State Property Fund (registration No. 8250). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:30:11]] For 259. Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Moving on, the next bill is 8400. This is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on providing state-owned support to individual categories of persons in professional (professional) and professional higher education. I'm proposing to include Bill 8400 in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:30:53]] For 273 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[15:31:15]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we not discuss this? Come on. I'll do it with your permission. And plus the committee's decision on the basis and in general so that we can sign and publish it at the right time. Then I propose to adopt a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on the provision of State targeted support to individual categories of persons in the professional (professional and technical) fields of professional higher education (registration number 8,400). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:32:05]] For 281 Decision taken. I propose to adopt in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the provision of State targeted support to individual categories of persons in the areas of professional (professional and technical), professional higher education (registration number of Law 8400). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:32:44]] For 282 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. Next Bill 8178, 8178-1. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to simplify the change of destination of land. I would like to suggest that we consider these bills in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:33:21]] For the 220. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Two, two, against that, please sign up. I'll be right there. Please, Sternichuk Valeriy Aleksandrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u199	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We've all now felt how important it is for us to provide unbreakable electricity, because this applies to both the light and the heat in the homes of every Ukrainian, in our dwellings with you. In fact, Bill 8178-1 is called upon to support and simplify the process of changing the target destination of land that will be used to build infrastructure, including energy objects, for the construction of housing for those citizens who lost it during the war. So I ask you to support the bill and thereby create new conditions for involving billions of investments to restore our state to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u200	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u201	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say right away that this session room should have found a balance between an institution of the peoples' government, such as local self-government and parliament. Unfortunately, I don't see such a balance given what legal acts here are voted on, which, on the contrary, are taken under conditions of decentralization of authority in local self-government. The bill says that the developer, without consent to local self-government, does not comply with the approved master plan, on which, by the way, all local self-government authorities have spent a lot of money, and without the development of documents, the land administration will agree to the construction. Come on, dear fellows, then we'll forget all the squares, all the squares where the walking zones are, without any agreement. I want to say that these standards are similar, we've already voted, unfortunately, are lobbying, we're in this sessional room, 5655, the same story where local governments are clearly waiting for the President of Ukraine to veto. This is a similar lobbying law. The Ukrainian City Association strongly denies the adoption of this legal act and asks to speak. In view of all the consultations with local self-government authorities, the "Patternal Society" faction calls on the Parliamentary Chamber not to support the introduction, only after consultation with local authorities, only after a joint agreed decision has been reached. I don't support lobbying laws in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u202	Please, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u203	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u204	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u205	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, well, this is now a bill, which one more time -- let's simplify, let's simplify all procedures. You know, if we want to simplify procedures, we have the Cabinet of Ministers, let him simplify all of his procedures. Legislative procedures to protect the earth are necessary, not because someone simply wants to do so, but because they protect something that is necessary for the Ukrainians, including, for example, such things as those needed for each Ukrainian as local self - government. None of you are a secret that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted a draft decision on the destruction of local self-government in Montenegro. Is that a secret for someone? Doesn't anyone know that? What's the problem? We passed a law that allows the direct administration of the President in cities after the invasion. Well, logically, there is no mayor in Herson, there are no deputies, the system is destroyed, of course it has to be done. But why are the Chernigs here?? The city was never taken for one second. The City Council deputies are all present. Is there one reason that in the city council of Chernigov, there are only four "ministers of the people" out of 42? That's the only reason we need to disband the city council of Chernigov, which is chosen by the voices of the black people. I like it, I don't like it, it's their choice. Who will help Ukraine tomorrow? Local self-government is the cornerstone of Europeanism, this flag we have in the European Union. Where in the European Union can the city council be taken and launched simply because it wants to? And who will tomorrow be Dnipro, Lviv, Kyiv, which city where they will want to put their own, without asking people? Where are we going, fellas? Do you realize what kind of danger you're putting a country in in a situation that can destroy all support for us? Ukraine must be free. Local self - government is a cornerstone. Parliamentarianism is a cornerstone. Ukraine’s freedom will be a guarantee of victory.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, one more minute Stryharsky and Tzabal. Dear colleagues, and after that we are voting, and literally in 2-3 minutes we should have a guest. So please, let's hear these two more speeches -- Stryharsky and then the Cabal, and then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u207	Good day to you all, fellows of honor, all present, Head, foreordaining! See, this bill, 8178, is considered very important today. Why? Because we know exactly what kind of gravity, secondly, I can't say, about the procedurality of taking and changing goals, the detailed plan in the territory, the output data, the collection of all of these things. And that's why it's too hard right now if we're talking about rebuilding the state and providing housing for those who have suffered. I answer as a builder, and I say, and I insist that this initiative be supported, and that it is necessary during military action. And in general, it needs a law of more global restructuring, and we need to look at it more globally. So please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u208	Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Cabal. Dear colleagues, after that we vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Take your seats. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, for me, this law is two such vivid examples. The first example, as an attempt at necessary deregulation, was not fully addressed by various anticorruption agencies. And that's why our first-reading faction is holding on to this law, because there are a lot of observations, including from NAZK, which I hope are working on until the second reading. And the second example is how often it happens that the attempt to deregulation, which is this law, is because this law is trying to reduce the time limit for obtaining permits. We all complain that the investor does not want to come to Ukraine because long - term permits are obtained and so on. This law is an attempt by one of the deregulations that has to involve more investors. So everyone starts to criticize why we're trying to do that and so forth. We want deregulation. So, colleagues, hopefully for the second reading he'll be working on, now we'll hold on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion on this issue, so let us move on to making a decision. Please take your seats. Please, colleagues, take your seats. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to simplify the change in the target land assignment (project registration number 8178-1) in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[15:42:47]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's send him to read again. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to re-read Bill 8178-1, this is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to simplify the change of destination of land. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:43:26]] For 199 The decision is not taken. I propose that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to the bill with thanks. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please, let us support him to go and get the subject to work on him very professionally. I propose to send the subject of the legislative initiative Bill 8178-1. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:44:05]] For 201 The decision is not taken. I don't get tired, we have Bill 8178 left, and now we have to go through it. Dear colleagues, I'm putting in Bill 8178, the proposal to accept as a basis for redrafting the provisions in accordance with Part One of Rule 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:44:46]] For 172 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing a re-reading of Bill 8178. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:45:10]] For-179 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, National Deputy of Montenegro Artem Olegovich is ready to draft this bill. Come on, there is a proposal to return the subject of the legislative initiative to draft Bill 8178. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:45:45.]] For 190 I didn't give you a loan of trust. 190-yes. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the bill is regarded as being rejected in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Dear colleagues, in just a few minutes there will be a guest, this is the Prime Minister of Spain. So, look, I think it's 2 or 3 minutes. I'd like to ask you a few things. Let's not split up now, because it's literally 2-3, at least 5 minutes, and it's coming. The other one. When a person speaks, believe me, we've all had the opportunity to speak in very many parliaments, and we're very eager to see your faces, not your backs. So I'm asking you very much, let's start today and make a rule forever: we're going to keep normal behavior in the Parliament Hall. Do you have a deal, Your Honor? Two or three minutes of break, but don't break up, because the guest will literally be from minute to minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u211	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Today, there is a delegation of the Kingdom of Spain, headed by Mr. Pedro Sanchez Pérez-Castehon, head of the Spanish Government. Let us applaud the distinguished Spanish delegation. [[Applause]] Your Honourable Head of Government, before giving you the floor on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, allow me to express my deep gratitude to the Spanish people, to the government, to the General Courts of the Kingdom of Spain, personally for your firm and firm support for sovereignty, Ukraine's territorial integrity and the decisive condemnation of the Russian Federation's military aggression against our state. We are deeply grateful for Spain's strong military and defence support, including the provision of PPO systems, other military equipment and weapons. Spain’s participation in the tank coalition and Ukraine’s decision to provide powerful Leopad 2 tanks deserve a special thanks. [[Applause]] Getting such heavy weapons is vital to us because it preserves the lives of our soldiers and peaceful citizens and brings us closer to victory and helps us to free occupied territories as soon as possible. It is highly anticipated that the military support of the Ukrainian army will continue with heavy weapons. It is important for our nation to provide you with humanitarian, financial, and other assistance. We thank Spain for supporting all EU sanctions against the aggressor country and look forward to further strengthening the sanctions pressure on Russia and maximizing its isolation. We sincerely look forward to your support for Ukraine in the context of European and Euro-Atlantic integration. We highly appreciate the concern and warmth of nearly 170,000 Ukrainians who have been granted shelter since the beginning of the full - scale aggression. [[Applause]] Thank you, too, for the treatment and rehabilitation of wounded fighters. We are proud to have such friends. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Spain, Pedro Sanchez Perez-Castehon. Hello.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u212	- Castehon. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Honorable members of the Supreme Council, your high regard, your respectable friends! It's an honor to be here in Kiev. And thank you so much for inviting me to address this honourable Parliament. Because you are fighting for the truth, and there is a difference between you and your opponent because you understand what you are fighting for. Ukraine is fighting for survival, and your opponent is fighting for power. They have no dignity in battle. There is a call for freedom in your battle. That's why they can't win, but they can hurt. Both Spain and the European Union and many allies and friends around the world are supporting Ukraine, and we will continue to support as much as necessary. Because you are fighting for your land, for your independence, your people are fighting for the restoration of their homes, their freedom. And yet all of you are defending what applies to all of us -- our rights as citizens. Russian illegal and unjustifiable aggression challenges our unbreakable principles, the usual rules: do not attack a neighbouring country that does not attack or threaten you or that political differences do not justify the use of force. These simple rules allow us to live in this world, and Russian aggression endangers international law within which we all coexist. That's why your fight, your defense is our defense. Spain has helped Ukraine since the beginning of the invasion, we have provided all kinds of assistance, arms, and financial assistance. We've given the largest humanitarian aid package we've ever provided to a single country. And we are well aware that more is needed, more assistance, especially in the form of military assistance. And that's why I informed President Zelensky today that we're going to increase the amount of military assistance. In particular, in addition to other supplies, we will soon provide fully equipped Leopard tanks to support your defense. And then, if we have to, we can send more tanks. And within the framework of the EU military assistance mission, Spain is already preparing hundreds of Ukrainian military personnel. Just last week, we started training 55 Ukrainian military personnel who are learning how to use leopards. We plan to increase the supply of ammunition at the expense of the joint European measures that we are now calling for, because unity and close cooperation are very effective. Because all these new military supplies and resources will be combined with the resources of other allies to significantly enhance the ability of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to defend and restore your territories. Your dignitary, of course, helps us in the military direction, but we do not abandon those who are injured. And between our capitals, the distance of 3,000 miles, we're on the other side of Europe. And despite this distance, over 165 thousand of your citizens have traveled this distance and have arrived in Spain. We give them proper access to health care, education, and other services, which is our moral obligation. But this is also a memory of past events. 80 years ago, hundreds of thousands of Spaniards found refuge in other European countries, saving themselves from war, and some of them came to Ukraine. And now we're giving shelter to your people, we're giving that lesson to humanism. Your high esteem, the reality of what's happening in Ukraine, is obvious to us. Sadly, not every country sees reality as it is. That is why it is vital to speak, to communicate with the rest of the world, so that they will hear the truth. Because a large number of countries suffer from the global economic consequences of war, and sometimes they tend to listen in part to roadside antiwestern propaganda. We can't let that happen, we have to fight for the truth to win, and we do. We urge us to fight these Russian narratives during international meetings. We are also coping with the global economic consequences of this war. A few weeks ago, Spain launched a special program to combat global food crisis. This program aims to help countries in Africa and the Middle East who have suffered from a global food crisis. So we welcome Ukraine’s efforts to help those countries with the grains they need. As you know, Spain will head the Council of Europe during the second part of this year. We cannot forget that Midan and Ukrainian determination to join the European Union were at the heart of today's situation. And the desire to join the member countries of the European Union is to join the principles of democracy, freedom of speech, freedom of movement and the realization of sovereignty, and so forth. Maybe it was too much for Putin, he couldn't agree to it, and that's why he decided to react in the form of this invasion, explaining it only by his propaganda. Today we condemn this aggression again, we welcome your right to a European dream, just as we had dreamed of it a few decades ago. That is why we strongly supported Ukraine's accession status in June, and now Ukraine is taking the next steps in this process. Of course, many changes are needed, many reforms and the work of calling on the Supreme Council will be extremely important. You have already passed several laws, and we certainly welcome your efforts, we welcome all the progress that has been made. And we will accompany Ukraine on the path to full integration so that your dream becomes a reality. During our headship, you can count that Ukraine will always be in the daytime order. Your honor, a few months ago, we had the honour of listening to the President of Ukraine's address to the Spanish Parliament. He then reminded us of Picasso's history, his painting of Gernica. This is a very beautiful painting that he painted during the Civil War in Spain, and it turned into a universal medium against the cruelty of war. And in Picasso's life, he said that Guernica is only going back to free and democratic Spain. It took time and suffering, but eventually we were able to ensure freedom, democracy and European membership. Now you are experiencing the most difficult times, but remember that these most difficult dark times will always end at dawn. But you're not alone, we're with you. Your honor, yesterday, before I arrived in Kiev, I was able to meet several Ukrainian refugee women who had found shelter for their families in Spain. I saw the strength and determination in their eyes, I saw the pride and determination of their spirit, I saw hope and confidence in their smiles. And in their example, I would like to celebrate the courage of all Ukrainian women. And so when I was with them, I realized that these women are really followers of the Forest of Ukraine. We very much hope that when peace returns to Ukraine, that this will happen very soon, and we will as long as we care about your citizens, we will worry about all of our resources and use all of our resources. And I'm not just speaking on behalf of the government right now, I'm speaking on behalf of the entire Spanish society. I am confident that I will be able to return very soon to a peaceful and prosperous Ukraine that will talk about progress and reconstruction. Meanwhile, all of Europe is watching your country closely, and your courage inspires us. Your business is our business, we stand together. Finally, I would like to mention the famous Ukrainian poet Taras Shevchenk, who described Ukraine as a large new family, a free family. So the peace of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-02-23-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, we thank once again the great Head of Government and the Spanish delegation for participating in the plenary session and for the unreserved support of the Ukrainian people and our state. Thank you. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the consideration of the agenda has been completed today. Thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. About the time and place. Continue, I'm sorry, you'll be notified in advance. I remind you not to spread information about its beginning. In unity, our strength. We're working on it, and we're going to win it. Glory to Ukraine!
