ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in the context of the state of war" today, we continue our plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament before an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to abide by the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety in the plenary, a recess will be announced and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each and every one of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today Ukraine is experiencing the 602nd day of widespread aggression by the Russian Federation. Every day, Ukrainian cities and villages are affected by massive rocket strikes and attacks by Russian army drones. Tonight, the invaders fired numerous rocket strikes on the city of Zaporozhye, and they kissed a residential building in the central part of the city. Regrettably, there are dead and wounded Ukrainians. We express our heartfelt sympathy to all our family members and close relatives of innocently murdered fellow countrymen and wish that the injured be healed as soon as possible. I emphasize that all crimes against the Ukrainian people will be found and brought to justice. Evil will certainly be punished. Dear colleagues, I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of all the soldiers who have fallen for Ukraine, of all the peaceful citizens, of the victims of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] In accordance with article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable members of the People’s Republic of Ukraine are invited to make a signal vote prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. I'll be right back. I propose that a signal vote be held in accordance with article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine prior to the commencement of the consideration of matters. Let me remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and hold these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. [[10:09:59]] For-98 For -98, against -6, hold - 0. Everything, as always, is a respected colleague. Thank you. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleagues of the national deputies of the Ukraine of Helen Volodymyrovna of the Curvature, the "Serve of the People" faction. [[Applause]] Sergey Kostinovich Ionushas, "Serve of the People" faction. [[Applause]] And Roman Vasilovich Socha, non-factional. [[Applause]] Let us welcome the nouns and wish them good health, fruitful work, and new gains for the benefit of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, once again I appeal to all of you to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, decisions taken in Parliament more than an hour after the end of our work. Dear National Deputies, a list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, are given to you. But before we go into these issues, I have two statements from factions with a break and a replacement for the performance. From the Fatherland faction and the EC is Heratchenko. And then from the "Trust" group and the "Serve of the People" faction Leonov will be. Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Humanities Policy unanimously supported the European Solidarity Order on honouring the memory of our dead colleagues of Ukrainian MPs, our dearly beloved brothers Mr. Barna, Alexander Marchenka's "liberator" and our Ukrainian Sergio Slabenko. This is a very important decision, we've all been with you in parliaments across the world, and we've seen that in both the United States and Canada, and in many other parliaments there are museums, there are ceilings, there are memorial boards dedicated to those parliamentarians, members of the secretaries who died in the wars. And we have this tragic list of three deputies who have given away the most precious of our principles to you. I thank all the deputies who are members of the Committee on Humanitarian Policy, and these are representatives of all the factions who unanimously supported this important decision. And from "European Solidarity" we ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put this particular decision into order after the budget has been reviewed. And in the near future, a tablet with the names of our best deputies appeared in the Supreme Council. There is another very important news about Oleg Barna’s memory. He won the trial in the lying journalist of the 1+1 channel of Mr. Coltunov, who beat off our Oleg. And six months ago, this decision was taken by the court. The resolution states that the full scope of Oleg Barna’s claim for protection of honor and dignity should be met. It's been six months, no excuses from channel 1+1 in the marathon. And by the way, the marathon is funded today by the state budget. This is an oligarchic channel that belongs to the Medvedchuks, other oligarchs. It's financed by taxpayers. There was no excuse, nor did he apologize to the family of the fallen hero himself, the journalist Coltunov. Moreover, it was found that this master is today a member of the People's Servant Party in Kiev. Colleagues, I think we need to unite with you around the slogan stated in this rostrum by President Zelensky, that Ukraine should be a country of heroes, not bastards. And the bastards have to apologize to the heroes. We call on channel 1+1 to apologize to Oleg Barna's memory in front of his family. We're calling on the People's Servant to ask your colleague, your bastard, to apologize to the memory of the hero of Ukraine, Oleg Barna. And we ask the Head of the Supreme Council to have a ruling supported by all the national deputies, all the factions, immediately after the vote for the budget for the year 2024. And here we thank the Servants of the People who make up most of the Committee on Humanities Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u3	Please continue to give the floor to the national deputy Leon. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one of the important ways in which Ukraine's reconstruction was announced by President Zelenski, is by the new neighbourhood policy. Every country that helps us in this difficult time deserves a new quality of relationships. Among these countries, Romania is one of the real leaders in helping and supporting our nation. Since the first days of widespread aggression, the Romanian people have become side by side with the Ukrainians. Romania has sheltered nearly 100,000 Ukrainians, and through its borders, more than 3.5 million of our fellow citizens have been able to make their way to safety. For over a year and a half, the real artery of life has been pulsating strongly on the Ukrainian-Romanian border. Ukraine has the opportunity to export its products to export and to complete its budget. Thanks to Romania’s full capacity support, the gates of the Dnistrov Cluster are constantly increasing, the capacity of the grain corridor is increasing, while weapons, humanitarian aid, products, and other goods are coming from the Romanian side. Romania is our trusted partner in the international arena. Early in June this year, Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelenski and Romanian President Klaus Johannesis signed a declaration on Romania's unequivocal support for Ukraine's NATO accession. Equally clear is the support for our integration into the European Union. Our President's recent visit to Romania has demonstrated new signs that cooperation between our nations is coming to a new level -- the level of strategic partnership, which is evidenced in particular by a joint statement signed by our Heads of State on the basis of the talks. This document reflects the key directions for strengthening our interaction, the security issue, the promotion of the Peace Formula, and the expansion of economic and logistical ties. Individual and sincere thanks to our Romanian partners for strengthening military assistance and their willingness to participate in the reconstruction of Ukraine. Thus, our President shows by his personal example how to achieve a new quality of relations with neighbors who help Ukraine. I believe that the Ukrainian Parliament has no right to stand outside and to support the efforts of the Head of State. Thanks to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Kornienka, a parliamentary group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from interparliamentary relations with Romania and the head of the parliamentary group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from interparliamentary relations with the Republic of Moldova, we are initiating work on the establishment of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the Chamber of Deputies of Romania and the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova. I'm sure it's about time we started the practical implementation of this initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are we done, no more suggestions for a break with a replacement for the performance? It won't. Thank you. Then, dear fellows, let's move on to the agenda and today we have a budget for 2024. Dear National Deputies, we turn to the draft Ukrainian National Budget Act of 2024 (Registration No. 10000) in the first reading, which was presented to the plenary on September 20, 2023. In accordance with article 157 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, consideration of issues is under way. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules, the Committee's proposals are proposed the following procedure for dealing with the matter. A report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budget issues – within 5 minutes, the committee's answer to a question – in up to 9 minutes, a speech by the Minister of Finance of Ukraine – in up to 5 minutes, a temporary statement by the Head of the Court of Auditors to 5 minutes, statements by representatives of the MPs and groups to 24 minutes (three minutes for the performance), speeches by the national deputies to 6 minutes, a decision to be taken, just for 55 minutes. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, what's your procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u6	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, a full discussion procedure with features that are outlined, if I am not mistaken, in article 157 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, only a few moments. I want to let you know, and as far as I know, you've already received a letter on this subject, which is that a representative of the Main Committee may also speak, according to the full discussion procedure, article 30, and that Alexi Honcharenko, a member of the Budget Committee, will do so from us. One second. A big request is also made to ask 9 minutes of questions to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine. Because there are nine minutes of questions to the committee representative, but there are no 9 minutes of questions to the Minister of Finance. And lastly, it's very important, only six minutes -- at the national MPs' speech, asking for 15 minutes to give a speech to the national MPs. So I sum up: 15 minutes -- speeches by the national MPs, 9 minutes to add to the finance minister's questions. And I'm informing you about the performance with a separate thought for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u7	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. I answer all your questions. It is well - said that it is discussed under article 157, with the features that are foretold but in the full - time procedure. Those two other questions that you're talking about, the extra questions and the speeches, it's not in 157th, and so I think that's not the right thing to do. And as for the speech of the People's Deputy of Potterenka. Indeed, part three of part three of the first article 30 of the Rules refers to the fact that speeches by national deputies, members of the Main Committee with a declaration and a separate opinion, if it has not been given to the National Deputies, together with the conclusion of the relevant committee. I'm going to tell you that the individual thought was only given this morning, and that's why it couldn't be submitted, it wasn't heard on the committee, it didn't have any questions on it, and so I think we're going to go to the hearing. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, what's your procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u8	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, there is no word in the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine when this particular thought is given, none. There's just whether or not it's given to the national MPs. Period. Therefore, a great request to comply with the Rules and give a three - minute presentation with a separate view of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u9	Once again, I return you to article 30, where a full procedure is foreseen, which sounds like "unless it has been given to the people's deputies together with the conclusion of the committee concerned." When it came to the committee's conclusion, it just wasn't physical. So, dear fellows, we're going to move along with this procedure. Let's move on to the question. Again? She wasn't there for a while, she couldn't be physically given. The individual thought is a separate thought that is centered on a separate act, a separate act of the national MP. This act at the moment of consideration, at the moment of making a decision, could not be taken, so at this point, colleagues of honor. Let's move on. Let's move on to the question. The Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Rocsolán Andriyov Podlas is invited to report on the findings and proposals and results of the review of the State Budget project. Please, in five minutes, Rocksolana Andriyevne.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u10	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, distinguished members of the Presidium! Today we are looking at a draft of the State Budget for the year 2024 before the first reading. A total of 1 thousand 620 amendments were made to the budget. Two days in the budget committee, a working group was held during which, together with the authors and the Ministry of Finance, we discussed and looked for opportunities to take into account all the right suggestions made by the honourable national MPs. But according to our estimate, we need an additional 12 and a half trillion dollars in total. It is not possible to take all these ideas and wishes into account in practice, because all the possible arrivals of Ukraine, the income from the placement of the internal government loan and the assistance of the partners, amount to a maximum of 3 trillion 960 billion dollars per year, and they are already distributed by the Ministry of Finance for various expenses in the draft budget. So in the Committee on Budgets, we focused our efforts on redistribution of expenditure, less important towards those that are absolutely necessary for the functioning and survival of the Ukrainian State. The budget of 2024 remains the budget of a warring country with one clear priority: defence. The cost of safety and defence in the project is fixed at 1 trillion 690 billion dollars or 21.6 percent of GDP. The second priority of the spending part of the budget is traditionally the social sphere. Some 469 billion dollars are offered to support Ukrainians who have come under different difficult circumstances or who have reached retirement age. For the following year, there is an increase in government social standards, and above all, the minimum wage increases from January 1st to January 1st to CZK 7 thousand and from April 1st to $8,000. This means that the state has established a rule: no institution or business can pay less than 8,000 dollars a month to the Ukrainian because the real cost of living has increased significantly since 2022, when the minimum wage was last reviewed. Veterans’ support expenditure has increased considerably, including the implementation of programmes and measures of veteran politics, which have cost 14.3 billion dollars, twice the cost of the current year. Of these, 2.6 billion dollars will be directed towards the physical and psychological rehabilitation of veterans. We will have a new project on the dental prosthetics of soldiers who have suffered such injuries on the front. At the same time, the committee suggests that the government reduce the cost of building, repairing, and purchasing property in various government bodies by almost 1.3 billion dollars and direct these costs to the prosthetics of Ukrainian soldiers and teachers. We believe that the worth of life of Ukrainians is more important and important than the beautiful facades of government bodies. One of the important decisions of the committee is to raise the revenue of the State budget by 10 billion dollars. This week the Supreme Council will vote on draft Law 9656-d to impose an additional tax on banks. Banks have to pay double the income tax, 36 percent to make their profits go towards financing defence needs. At the same time, the committee entrusted the Cabinet of Ministers 61 with the task of dealing with individual issues for second reading. But this year, the implementation of much of the State budget, as in the following year, will depend on international financial assistance. That is why we need to adopt the draft State Budget Act as soon as possible so that the government can start negotiations with international partners on the harmonization of sources of funding. Can the committee's findings be found?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u11	Please. Let the committee's conclusion be announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u12	Thus, the Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the draft Regulation 10,000/P on conclusions and proposals for the 2024 State Budget Bill as a whole. Taking this decision into account will enable the government to prepare a draft for second reading, taking into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council. Thank you. We work together. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u13	Thank you. Heroic glory! Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for a question to the reporter. Please, colleagues, let's sign up for a question. Please, Zagradni Yuri Ivanovich, deputy group "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u14	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Please give the floor to National Deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u15	Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u16	Thank you. Madam Head of the Committee, I'll have a question for you about the minimum calculations, the minimum rate of living, in particular. And I'd like to point out that this is how you predicted this parameter, given that, for example, this year's electricity tariff is increasing, it's already increased from 1 in 44 to 2 in 64. As this has been shown in the dynamics and rates of increasing subsistence minimums, there are minimum pensions and other indicators. This time. Second: about the impact of inflation and devaluation data, as well as you calculated the parameter, how much did it increase? And this dynamic does not correspond to the rate of growth of the minimum of living and the minimum of living for those who have lost their jobs. And I can't help but ask you about the prognosis parameters. We have a debt on wages, as well as a debt on residential services, which is estimated at 140 billion dollars. What numbers do you plan for this year after?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u17	Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u18	In answer to your first question, I want to say that the subsistence minimum is set in the state budget at 3,000, 28 dollars. But here, and for all the national MPs, and for those Ukrainians who are going to watch us online or on television, we have to say that the minimum of living is an accounting category. It is put in the state budget to calculate the various salaries and salaries of officials. We have long talked about the need to reform the social pay system and to cope with the cost of living. Because when we're actually operating on a minimum of living in a government budget, we're unfortunately, and for our citizens, it sounds like the state is expecting someone in Ukraine to live on 3,000 dollars. That's not true at all. The Ministry of Social Policy estimates a real subsistence minimum of 6,000 dollars each month. This is the minimum that a person needs to survive in Ukraine today. So I propose, and we're doing this work with the Social Policy Committee, that all social benefits in future budget periods should be linked to an abstract category at the moment, such as the subsistence minimum. With regard to other macroeconomic indicators in government budgets, the government has made a macroeconomic, macroeconomic forecast that will be updated by second reading. And if we now have, for example, an internal gross product increase of 5 percent, then c.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u19	Please, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u20	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's MP, Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u21	Santa's speed, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u22	Dear Rocsolana Andriyevna, here's the question. Our group has been offering a complex of rights, these are social rights. In addition, there were restrictions on wages not only for civil servants but also for top managers of state companies. Was there a reflection in the budget changes that you've taken into account? In addition, when it was time for the government, I asked Prime Minister Schmigal about helping our agrarians on the condition that, unfortunately, this fall we are seeing a drought on the ground, if I say so, I know very well about the Odessa area, or are these funds foreseen in the state budget for the following year? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u23	Let's start with the agrarians. Yes, indeed, the planned funds to support the agro-industrial sector, such as two agricultural programs, will be in place. This is a long-known partial compensation program in Ukraine for agricultural technology for Ukrainian production, which Ukrainian farmers will buy. Some 1 billion dollars have been placed on the program. The State also proposes to offset the costs of Ukrainian agriculture and Ukrainian farmers for the exchange of fields. This is now an extremely important and huge problem, because much of the soybeans are replaced. With regard to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, it also has a substantial budget to support agriculture, and some 30 billion dollars on various programmes are allocated to business support in 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u24	Thank you. Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, the Platform for Life and Peace group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u25	Thank you. Madam Head of the Committee, in the course of my previous question, look, you didn't answer the question, I was interested in two specific figures. Debt for residential services is projected to decrease it, how, in today's tariff subsidy policy, it's going to decrease and there's a return on debt on wages, that's two specific figures. Then, look, I agree with you for the minimum of living, but I also formulated questions and minimum pension issues. According to the Pension Fund, the minimum pension of 2 thousand and 361 dollars is a minimum pension for Ukraine’s citizens. And we get these references, I, for example, in the electronics office, where the electronics come in, we see these numbers. When asked what, for example, the cost of utilities exceeds the minimum pension. So if you can, please clarify that question. And the second moment is also, it's as applied as possible, it's about demographics, it's about child support, it's 41280, and 860 dollars a month for child support. How do we plan to increase this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u26	You're absolutely right about the fact that a minimum pension doesn't allow you to live for even one month, taking into account not only utilities, but also medical expenses, for example. So, as far as I know, the government is planning to implement a pension reform not only of the so-called, stockpiling system, but also of the reform of the solidarity system, which refers to the fact that the large pensions received by judges, prosecutors and various other former officials should be reduced, while the smallest pensions received by the poorest Ukrainians today should be increased. This is a reform of the solidarity system. And I am confident that next year's parliament will support this and allocate additional funding for such a pension reform. With regard to the payment of public services, all citizens who need social services will continue to receive a subsidy. If any of the national MPs know that a low-income family has refused to pay their utilities, refused to pay subsidies, please let me know, please inform the Social Policy Committee, we will be resolving this issue promptly. As for the reduction in housing and utility debt, which is put into the state budget, it's very simple arithmetic. Fortunately, we see a tendency to increase the discipline of Ukrainians in paying for residential services. Debt is declining because our fellow countrymen are paying off these debts, and we are so grateful for it because they are ensuring the stability of the energy system.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u27	Thank you. One more question, I understand. Froll instead of Kowalczuk, right? Please, Frolov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u28	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mrs. Roxolano, I would like to thank you for the absolutely open, transparent organization of the process to discuss the amendments to the budget in the first reading. Thank you for inviting all the deputies, regardless of membership, to the Committee on Budgets, who have been able to stand up for their amendments. Sadly, though, politics is returning to this hall. We see that the total amount of amendments was 12 trillion dollars, and unfortunately, yesterday we failed to adopt the overall VAT law to direct an additional 25 billion dollars to the needs of the Armed Forces. I have a question: how about now that we can't put missiles and money on missiles and drones according to the Armed Forces, how do we keep going, and how do we solve this? Because we have to support the army now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u29	Thank you, Paul Valeriovich. In fact, after the bill was voted on 10037 yesterday, we were going to direct 8 billion dollars to buy drones and 8 billion dollars to buy artillery systems for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Regrettably, the national MPs have refused to allow our forces to do so. But the budget committee, the Council's leadership and the "Serial of the People" faction will insist on a 10037 vote in early November, because we are taking a responsible stand with our military personnel. And when we get a request from the General Staff and the Ministry of Defense, we can't help but carry it out. So I call on the responsibility and conscience of the people's deputies present and ask everyone to vote in favour of Bill 10037 on a second reading. Without it, a large amount of material and technical security for the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the 23rd and 24th years will be impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed the first block related to the presentation of the interview and questions. Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna, take your place. The speech is given by Sergio Mikhailovich Marchenko, Minister of Finance of Ukraine. Please, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u31	Good morning, distinguished national deputies. I am very grateful to you because there was a rather constructive work on the Parliament's budget committee, they were conducted on all lines, the discussion was quite difficult, as always, the budget was an object for compromise, and the allowances were made, 1,600 allowances were submitted by the people's deputies to the amount of 12.5 trillion dollars. Some of it's been counted. You've given us a chance to improve this budget. I hope that together we can work out this budget and come up with a constructive decision in the near future. We, in turn, after you vote, I hope that this decision, you'll support the conclusions and vote, it's very important that the government further develop it. Why is this a pressing issue? Because unfortunately, we are now in a situation where Ukraine's focus in the world is shifting, we are no longer in the order of the world's daily media and the countries of the world that are helping us. This is to be considered. And so I'm very sorry that some of the decisions that are aimed at balancing the budget have not been supported by you to address the urgent problems of the security and defence sector. In particular, a bill was not supported yesterday that provided for the directing of taxes on the income of individuals. I want to remind you that you and I have one task, one priority. We don't have any more priorities. This priority is the security and defence sector. There will be no other countries in the world to help us if we do not do so ourselves. Now, maybe I'm not speaking in a less emotional tone as I said last time, I've had my remarks, I've made some conclusions. But all of the same degree of tension that's left over, I want you to understand that the situation is quite complicated. Our partners are making substantial increases in their own military budgets. At the same time, military budgets do not grow only in part to help their own troops. They're growing their own military industries. It's a pretty crazy amount of money that's now being channeled all over the world into the military-industrial sector. So I hope that you will take into account today's trends and today's nerves and the situation in the second reading, another second reading in the bill of amendments to the Budget Code, because in the future, we have to be independent of our own powers, including our own economy, including our own defence and industrial complex. These are the very important things I wanted to tell you. I just got back from the annual meetings of the IMF, the World Bank. The level of support remains steadily high, but it is harder and harder for us and each of us to convince our partners to seek support within their own countries if they see that we have a discussion inside the country, and they unfortunately don't understand it. That's why I brought you these. I think we should do a joint job. The 24-year budget, it's extremely complex, it provides for quite unpopular measures. Not everyone will be satisfied, but, if you'll excuse me, no one should be pleased when the country is at war. The only sector that needs security is the security and defence sector, and all other sectors will be financed in principle. If we have less international aid, we're going to ask you to cut costs and maybe raise taxes, maybe redirect decisions that were made earlier, limit local budgets and other unpopular measures. I'm not scaring you, I'm just warning you that the situation is changing quite dramatically and not in favour of, unfortunately, a long time to discuss and make decisions that are based on the political context. The political context has to be shared -- it's to provide an army of our own so that we can win this war. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is given to the temporarily acting Head of the Accounting Chamber, Andriy Vasilovich Meisner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, members of the government. The Court of Auditors carried out an expert study on the draft State Budget for 2024 and sent the Supreme Council of Ukraine the appropriate conclusions. We worked actively with the Budget Committee at all stages of the preparation of the State Budget project for the following year. For more than 600 days, Ukraine has been living in conditions of large - scale war. For the key priority – national security and defence of Ukraine, the government is proposing to target 1.7 trillion dollars or more than half of all budget expenditure in the following year. However, honourable national deputies, this may not be enough if this indicator is combined with the monthly amount of actual expenditure in nine months of the current year. Against the backdrop of budgetary constraints in terms of war and the ability to target defence only from internal sources, it is imperative to temporarily centralize the budget to target the state's security. This does not undermine the achievement of decentralization reform, but ensures the financial capacity to defend the state and citizens in war. The budget of the Fund for the financial security of Ukraine's defenders and protectors and the Road Fund is an additional capacity of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and the money from the pipeline and asphalt is to go to victory. The position of the Ukrainian people's deputies in terms of increasing the costs of defence and protecting the state and providing our military with a reduction in the non-priority of the war on the budget is noteworthy. In particular, 574 million dollars have been allocated to prosthetics of individual categories of individuals who have protected and protected independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of Ukraine. By the way, honourable national deputies, the Court of Auditors has now completed a systematic audit of prosthetic effectiveness throughout Ukraine. This is now a huge problem for Ukraine, our pain and demand for a qualitatively different, effective state policy in this area. In 2024, from external creditors, 45 percent of all revenues are proposed, primarily from the United States Government. We have the accountability, transparency and efficiency of using these funds to preserve and strengthen the trust of our international partners. Of course, the back of this medal will be an increase of 77 percent of government guaranteed debt, which will exceed GDP by the end of 2024. Already in December of this year, the Chamber of Auditors will complete two excessive audits of Ukraine's direct budget support from the United States to ensure the vital needs of the population of Ukraine and the stress of the Ukrainian health care system. In 2024, we will conduct fully, in accordance with international standards, coordinated with German colleagues, the efficiency of the use of housing funds for internally displaced persons, Ukrainian families with temporarily occupied territories that had to be integrated into other areas of Ukraine – this is a matter of social guarantees and once again the effectiveness of state policy in terms of war. This is also correlated with the second, social and humanitarian priority in the budget project, the costs of providing constitutional guarantees for Ukrainian citizens. In particular, health care costs will increase by 14 percent. About education, for example, $1 billion or 2.7 times will increase the cost of shelters for educational institutions, with the aim of preserving the lives and health of participants in the educational process, and improving the quality of education itself in offline. All other expenses, in terms of war, in the budget project are reduced to a reasonable minimum. The Court of Auditors is quick to respond to challenges and has transferred its work to the railroads. We've conducted an evaluation of the efficiency of using the budget to implement measures of psychological rehabilitation and re-adaptation of our heroes and their families. According to the audit, a large part of our defenders and protectors did not receive adequate services. In order to ensure the legitimate interests of every defender and defender of Ukraine, a significant increase in the corresponding expenditure of the budget is required in the following year. And that's what's included in the draft budget. During the year 2024, expenditure of 2.6 billion dollars is proposed for the rehabilitation of the military, which is 4.8 times more than approved for 2023, as well as the introduction of a new grant to support people of 3.8 billion dollars. Once again, we need to emphasize that this is not an ideal budget, but a balanced budget for wartime. The Court of Auditors, through its audit, controls that the costs of Ukrainian and foreign taxpayers are used effectively by the Government of Ukraine to win and preserve our state. Thank you for your attention, distinguished national deputies. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to sign up for the performances of the MP factions and groups. It's three minutes for the performance, I remind you. Please, Your Honor, let's sign up for the factions and groups. Please, Honcharenko Alexiyyovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u35	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we are now considering an extremely important issue. This is the State Budget for the following year. We understand with you, and today the main thing in our country is war. But war is resources and financial resources -- it's one of the key resources that we're talking to you now about how to distribute it. Well, now, my friends, this is really an extremely important subject, really, judging from the presence of the national MPs, they don't think so. There's not even 226 people's deputies in the session room again, there's not even 226 people's deputies, there's other things in the MPs, they're very busy again, not with the state budget. And that's the question, my friends, number one today. And we have to look at the budget with you, and really do a very difficult task of building a budget to put money into war, into an army, into an army, because it has to be the budget of victory, because it has to be the budget of war, sorry, not the shit that we've seen, these drums, the serials, the endless kind of absurdity that we're going to get and say, this has to be in the state budget. No, it's a budget for war. But at the same time, we have to think about the state not just one month ahead, not just a year ahead, but we have to think about the future. And if we think about the future, we can't pay 860 dollars per month for a child. 860 bucks a month. How can a child be held up to three years for 860 bracelets a month? Or we have, well, this kind of thing is really amazing when you pay a disabled person to take care of 50 bucks a month, 50! Tell me, what's 50 bucks a month today? Or when it comes to wounded, driven out of state, we're talking about the army, and these people get 600, 700 dollars a month. So we have to do and do an important task: on the one hand, we have to give money to the army, but on the other hand, we have to at least make it possible for these people to survive, because it's impossible to survive for 600 dollars, it's impossible to survive for 800 dollars a month. It's just impossible! And all of this has to be strengthened by economic policies that focus on jobs. What do we see? We see that the tax system destroys everything in a row. And we don't see any economic policy today from the government. Where is the Prime Minister at the budget submission? He has to stand here and report, we don't see him. Friends, we're offered a budget again, where there are wrong things, let's fix it now to make it right.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u36	Please give the floor to Ukraine's National Deputy, Natalya Igorovni Igorovni, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u37	Pass on the word, please. It's just... it's... it's
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u38	Please, Gunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u39	Good afternoon! Good afternoon, dear fellows! Undoubtedly, the budget project that the government gave us in September, we have no power. The circumstances and realities of war dictate the priorities and directions that require our greatest attention. People’s deputies have clearly worked hard on the budget. I have to say that we have found ways to save almost 1.5 billion dollars of the State budget for improper construction and purchase of property in various authorities. We also understand the importance of providing resources to support our military forces today. In addition, half a billion dollars will be directed at prosthetics of Ukrainian defenders and this is an opportunity for many of our heroes to return to a more or less normal life and a full life. Individually, there is a need to give further attention to our education and to the growing generation. That is why Parliament recommends that the government increase its spending on education subsidies by almost 400 million dollars. The task of Parliament and the government is to support our partners in the world, to provide a working and balanced budget. We are working in the security sector first and foremost, and we are providing sufficient social assistance, economic recovery, and the necessary reconstruction of our state will be done later. The parliamentary group "Delivery of Ukraine" supports the State Budget project in its first reading and hopes that the government will take into account Parliament's proposals for the drafting of a second reading document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u40	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy John Ivanovich Krulk, the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u41	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We are now looking at, in fact, the main document that will determine how the Ukrainian state will live next year, 2024. A country that has been in a full - scale war for almost two years in the war against the Russian Federation that annexed Crimea, Donbas, since 2014. And, of course, we have to be clear to ourselves that this budget cannot in principle be simple and easy. I don't want to analyze the social pay situation right now, because there's basically nothing to analyze. The standard of living in Ukraine is falling, and this must be stated as a fact. I don't want to touch the issue of living minimum, which doesn't even reach the actual size of living minimum to half. 38 percent is 2900, which is a minimum of living, and the actual cost of living is 8,500, including inflation and consumer prices. But I would like to talk, at the same time, about the things that the Committee on the Urgement of the Fatherland faction has managed to provide. You know that Parliament has created a temporary commission of inquiry, whose task is to solve the issues of increasing funding for the treatment of our wounded -- those of our boys and girls who went to war to protect the Ukrainian state, get hurt and need treatment to get back to normal, as far as possible, life. And here is our responsibility, the whole country, to provide the necessary medicines, very high-value, to provide the necessary equipment, but most importantly, the cost of their treatment and nutrition so that they can get the help they need in these hospitals. This interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council is headed by the leader of our faction, Julia Timoshenko, who traveled east, south, all the hospitals that are in the foreground, and saw a real picture of how these hospitals are provided and what is needed specifically to be able to treat our wounded effectively. And what I would like to say is that in the 24-year budget, the amendment made by the Fatherland faction is taken into account and commissioned by the Cabinet of Ministers for second reading to take into account the 18 billion needed to increase the packages to treat the wounded three times. Three times we need to increase packages in surgery, in the mine-explosion, in the care, in the injury -- these are all the basic packages that our patients are carrying, our military personnel. I hope that by the second reading and feeding, and the treatment of the wounded will be increased in the budget, and the Fatherland will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u42	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Please give the floor to National Deputy Stepi Sergiyyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". You're handing it over, aren't you? Please. It's expensive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u43	Good day, dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, a venerable presidency. Mikola Zadrodzny, 162 constituency, "Serve of the People" faction. We are now considering perhaps the most important document of 2024, which is the draft budget. In the process of discussion, in the process of submission, in the process of communicating with the Ministry of Finance, with the government there were a lot of proposals, there was a lot of constructiveness, there was a lot of negativeness. I would like to draw attention to the fact that very often opposition deputies at large cockswave very often lose design and they are. I would like to thank some colleagues who have shown where to find the resources to increase the income portion of the budget. The government will work on it. I would like to thank colleagues who offered suggestions who have found some consensus that spending should be limited. This budget project will be difficult to implement. But what the government has submitted and what is being worked on in the Committee on Budget Affairs is real to implementation and we need to keep working on it. I would like to point out that the project deals in part with the issue of public service, equalizes the wages of civil servants, who have a great deal of pressure primarily on frontal, border areas, communities, areas. Next, expenses, capital costs are primarily circumcised for all central executive authorities. What I see in this budget is the cost of supporting business, because I want to remind everyone that we are fighting for our own revenues. And thanks to international partners, we're closing most of the social costs, and we have to fight for our own. So about 19 billion dollars in business support in all areas, supporting industrial parks and supporting large investments is what our country really needs. The capital costs of shelter, they really need to be increased. In the last six months, I have done a great deal of work in all the border areas, the front areas, and the need is extremely high. And thank you for taking into account, and the government's mandate is to work on increasing funding for shelters in secondary education. Colleagues, a fairly balanced and quite compromising decision is being proposed today. Please support him. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u44	Heroic glory! The word is given to the National Deputy of Skorko Mikola Leonidovich, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u45	People's MP Skork, MP for Life and Peace. Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Speaking from this rostrum during the presentation of this draft state budget on behalf of the group, I have already mentioned that we have decided to support this draft state budget. We understand all the problems in this project. Talk about. I don't think there's any point. The main problem of this budget, and not only that, I think many years in advance, is the debt problem that rests on the state of Ukraine. But what the Ministry of Finance is doing today, I think they're pretty professionally coming out of this situation. Our faction, our group, excuse me, has submitted a project, a balanced draft of rights to the state budget, and yet we hope that they will be taken into account, at least in part; they also apply to the social issues of multi-child pay, child pay. We've filed an order to increase the funding of the Ministry, I'm sorry, the Academy of Medical Sciences. We think that in the draft budget we should put the ceiling clearly not only for the salaries of government officials, but for the managers of large state corporations, it would be normal for society. Because those multimillion-dollar wages that they get during the war, that's what people take for granted, absolutely negative. What I would like to say is a draft of the unacceptable Law 10037. I believe that there are still many risks to the adoption of this law, I understand that it will be voted by the Supreme Council before the adoption of the state budget. But speaking to the Cabinet of Ministers, it puts a very high responsibility on the Ministry of Finance in providing inter-budgetary transfers to our communities. Because PDF for many communities and PDF is the only major budgeting tax and there is nothing to replace it. These are the incomes of the first basket and the cost of health care, the cost of education. And they can't be reduced in any way, and there can't be debt during the war on salaries to doctors, doctors, sorrys, and teachers. Therefore, when addressing the Ministry of Finance’s management, be very careful about making inter-budget transfers and perhaps replacing them with removals. Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u46	Klimenko, Voice. Dear colleagues, we have a budget that we have because we have a war going on, and our budget can't be anything but a military budget for 24 years. All of our money, we all have to understand that all of our money that our economy earns, which our country earns through taxes, through other payments, will go exclusively to defense and security, to the army, to go to arms, to go to win as soon as possible. Hopefully it'll be in the 24th year, and the 25th year budget can be here with you. We'll discuss development programs, economic programs, where we can invest money. But in order for us to have a chance in the 25th year to discuss all of these programs, we have to win with you in the 24th year. To do that, we need troops, so we need our weapons of production, so we need to direct all our efforts and money to defense and security. So this budget, in fact, is made up. It's very simple, it consists exclusively of these expenses plus social payments plus pension payments, all the other expenses are not actually foreseen in this budget. Therefore, all must realize that life on a broad foot will be gone. And yesterday we had discussions on our committee about a large number of government bodies that were used to living on a broad foot. So all these public authorities, all of them have to understand that in the 24th year, no one's going to live on a wide foot. All expenses will be reduced, all public authorities must understand and reduce their expenses and stop earning, let's say, during the war. So, dear colleagues, I don't see any other way to vote in favour of the 24-year budget, the military budget, in order for us to have a debate in the 25th year on Ukraine's economic development budget and prosperity. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, please, Bakunec Pavel Andryovich. And this, I take it, is going to be the final performance, and then there's going to be questions from the deputies, and then we're going to vote. I'll ask the deputies to take their seats. Please, Paul Andryovich, Trust Group, Bakunec.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the Honourable Minister of Profiles, the deputies who are here, the honourable MPs, clearly, when we consider this most important document that our country will live with in the next year, in the year of war, and we believe, in the year of our Ukrainian victory, we want to say first of all, in its consideration, that, despite our having a full-scale war, and far from the first year, we do have social benefits in our country. And we thank you, and we realize that it's not a simple matter for the Ministry of Profiles to buy at this time of war, all the income to be able to talk to international partners, actually, that helps us and gives us the money for these social benefits, but the basics if the state on which the budget is based, apart from incomes, are expenditures. This is the number one in time of war -- defense spending, and it's the largest in this budget. This is, of course, the cost of what we're fighting for is the cost of our Ukrainian education, it's the cost of our medicine and our social sphere. And if we're spending on education, medicine and social services through international donors, it's clear that we're directing expenses on defense from our Ukrainian taxpayers. And at this time, when we're also in the process of this budget, we have to take this step to start testing for Ukrainian enterprises, something is likely to stimulate revenue increases, revenue increases in the state budget, and incomes in the local budgets, and so maybe increase some amount of education subsidy for our teachers next year. This may provide the full funding of all medical packages to enable Ukrainians to heal, and most importantly, for veterans to rehabilitate. Because we realize that these people deserve the greatest attention and care. That is why rehabilitation should also be included and expenditure on it in the next year's budget – the year of the great defense of the Ukrainian people, the year of the great victory. So we believe that we will be proud of this budget period, and next year we will be looking at various other articles – articles on infrastructure development, community development. And today we believe in the Forces of the Armed Forces, in God and in victory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u49	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, all the factions and groups who wanted to speak, right? I'm asking. There is no one else who has not spoken and has no desire to do so. Thank you. Then let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speeches by the National Deputies. It'll take us six minutes. That's why I'm asking you to go to the recording now. But, Your Honor, I'm asking all the national MPs to take their seats, because after that, we're going to vote on it. We need to get 226 votes. Please, Your Honor, Vietrovich Vladimir Mikhailovich, faction of European Solidarity. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u50	Please give it to Juliana Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u51	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please. Turn on Nina Petrovni Jujanini's microphone. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, I've heard from both the Minister of Finance here, and there's a lot of words that say that this is a difficult budget, a military country budget, a budget that's focused exclusively on the security and defence sectors. It doesn't really fit the reality. And I don't want you to be wrong. The more you lie to yourself, the more we create an unfair approach, an unreasonable spending that we can operate on. In fact, all its own revenues will be directed to the security and defence sectors. All the other expenses will be paid at the expense of our donor countries and at the expense of the fact that our government and the Minister of Finance will be able to agree, of course, to do so. And he rightly said that there would be one moment at a time when countries form their military budgets, we wouldn't have to have enough money to spend all the expenses you just talked about. It's a completely budgetary area, it's totally social expenditure and it's part of pension insurance. So it's quite obvious that this budget, already the second budget during the war, Mr. Minister, should be treated as actually a critical year budget in the history of Ukraine, by no means to increase the salaries of the directors compared to 2023 plus the inflation index, by any means not allowing the development costs again. You're saying that we're going to talk about the development of the enterprise after the victory, so the development of the enterprise for individuals is set up here. And when I was on a working group on the committee, I was talking about not counting all possible revenue, not canceling those expenses that exactly the administrators can afford. This offends me, I don't want to live in a country that lies to itself, that lies to partners, that hides numbers in lines to keep the garbage going. I'm against your phrase when you said, why take responsibility for all the thefts that there is no corruption in the country at the moment. You're not ashamed when we hear each other's messages happening at the central level. Now you're talking about asphalt and silk, and what's going on here. I don't want to talk about all the purchases that are being monitored every day, which are desperate for people who are interested in it. And all the sociopaths are left behind because you don't feel like there's a war going on. So listen, please, to the changes that we will now discuss in the course of presenting our amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u53	Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich. I take it you're going to hand Nina Petrovney over, too, aren't you? Ah, Irina Volodymyr, please, Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, we do have a very difficult, deeply deficient budget in the warring country, half of which is 50 percent dependent on the help of our international partners. Who are essentially supporting and sponsoring our entire social sphere, our teachers, our doctors, our pensioners. And in order to support this help, we need to focus on the key, the real, not the frontal fight against corruption. Because all the money stolen from the trash is stolen from the Ukrainian army, because all our taxes collected inside the country go exclusively to the defence sector. Unfortunately, in this budget, even though it's said to be the budget of a warring country, it's not that simple. It says very clearly that the security and defence sector, security and defence sector and that the word "security" is used to raise the costs of repressive organs. Now, you've all got such an interesting essay that we're starting a fight against corruption, corruption, an important component of victory, from the D.B.I. The D.B.I. has money for sending these texts? Yes, the D.B.I., please start with your representatives in Lviv, who are having a $1 million wedding, this feast during the plague, start with yourself. And it's on this D.B.I., to get them to send text messages, that you're putting 2024 in the budget. And while the Ukrainian Armed Forces have a 6 percent reduction in funding in 2024, this is unacceptable. I would like to remind you that President Greensky began his career as president with an important promise of fighting oligarchs. What do you put in the second already warring country’s budget? The funding of the oligarchic canals, 2 billion dollars go to the marathon, the marathon that now leaves "1+1", which belongs to the Medvedchuk family and other oligarhams, other channels that belong to the oligarchs. Did the oligarchs run out of money? At a time when you're giving them a budget to cut salaries today for rent and other expenses. So our amendments, which the European Solidarity will insist on, are to redirect 2 billion dollars from the marathon, to no one useless, from the oligarchic channels of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. You put 170 million on the "Council" channel that doesn't show Parliament. You know, the principal's salary is higher than that of MPs and speakers, it's 94,000 dollars a month, the principal's salary is "The Council." And you're going to vote for that. This is more than soldiers on the front line, I'm sorry. It's not normal. That's why our team wants to cut these costs, take the money out of the Council Channel, which doesn't show Parliament and you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, the first reading of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act of 2024 has been completed. Dear friends, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, the State Budget is a sacred duty of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let's do everything we can to get through it with dignity, and the country gets the next year's cost. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats! Take your seats, Galina Mikolayevna, and take your seats. Dear colleagues, in accordance with Rule 157 of the Supreme Council Rules, I am voting on the basis of the budget committee's draft Resolution (Registration No. 10,000/P) on conclusions and proposals for a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2024. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:21:32]] For 254 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Honorable fellow Members, will there be an insistence of the national MPs on voting proposals, or can we do so at once? Will they? Yeah. Well, there are national MPs who have the right. Dear colleagues, we are sitting because our task is to make this budget the perfect one. So, dear fellows, we'll go the way we always do with you. Please, Your Honor, let's begin. Tymoshenko, first amendment. Is he insisting? Dear colleagues, I can't see. Step away, please. I don't see any national MPs. Don't insist. Thank you. Brainy, other repairs. Please, Dmitry Alexanderovich and his colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u56	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. As long as we don't sit while we're working, there's a difference. Let's move on. It's about the State Budget Act. I'm looking at the fact that the national MPs are breaking up again, they're not interested, it's against the background of everyone just saying that it's the budget of a warring country. I'm hoping the "Honey" channel will show you. He'll show you how to vote, and then at 10 o'clock in the evening, they won't write again about what they did for 11 hours. And as for 11 hours, I'd like to go to the committee, and to the head of the Supreme Council, there were so many questions that we could work 11 hours in a row, because 10038 you sent the President's Office in just five days. If it was urgent, what would have prevented you from doing so? And the second amendment is about increasing both the coming and the costs that have been calculated by the Association of Cities, and hopefully you will support it. She's as smart, as right as anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u57	Committee position, please, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u58	It is suggested that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u59	Thank you. 2 Amendment Reasonable and Colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:24:04]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Please, let's move on. Fries Igor Pavlovich. Don't insist. 3 revisions. 4 repairs, Purtova. Don't insist. Five repairs, Goncharenko. Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u60	Alexei Hotcharenko. Friends, what's going on in the Supreme Council? Why doesn't anyone listen? Why does no one care about Ukraine’s state budget? Look, guys, they're just not interested, colleagues. They're already in their own lives, each one talking about his own. I think only Mr. Head listens to me, well, then. And Madam Deputy Head, well, then I communicate with the presidency. Dear friends! I ask you to vote this, this is an important amendment that will allow us to raise questions about social pay. Because this budget today provides for the freezing of social benefits where the fact is: 860 dollars per child, a pension of two thousand -- two thousand 200 dollars. How can a person live on these costs? Well, it doesn't matter to colleagues who go here, but it's not possible to live on that kind of money. So we need to review this budget and find reserves and resources to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the 5th Amendment of the Pottery. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[11:25:47]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 6, Bujansky and his colleagues. Don't insist. 7th Amendment, Krulko. Don't insist. 8th Amendment, Titik. Don't insist. 9th Amendment, Greeb. Don't insist. 10 revisions, Prostrzyk. Don't insist. 11th Amendment, Babenko. Don't insist. 12th Amendment, Francis Igor Pavlovich. Don't insist. 13 repairs, Purtova. Don't insist. 14th, Goncharenko. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u62	Alexei Hotcharenko. I'll keep telling my colleagues a little bit about what's going on. It's also, unfortunately, not enough that it's a large budget, not a war, but a fig tree, because we see the marathons, the drums, the series, and everything else, it's also a budget for shullery, shullery. Guys, I'm giving you a specific example. Article 8 of the draft law stipulates, let me remind you, that we have a minimum wage of up to 7,100 dollars from January 1st and 8,000 dollars from April 1st. And the same paragraph says that in order to calculate the value of the court's payment, which is important for the Chernobyls, for some other categories, to count not 8,000, but 1,600 dollars, i.e. virtually five times below the payouts, for example, for the Chernobyls. What does the head of the Lifetime District Service of Pusharenko think of this?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u63	Please, Pushkin, right to a replica. And then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, indeed, article 8 of the budget foresees that we have a double wage in the following year: January 1st – 7100, April 1st – 8000. And it's wonderful that the government found the opportunity and made it work. I think we can support that. But, indeed, there is such a situation that this 8th article of the budget, which provides for this, is paragraph four, where the court rulings are calculated at 1,600. I'm being approached today by citizens, by Chernobyl organizations, by city councils about what really creates social tension in the border areas, in the border communities that have suffered from the Chernobyl disaster. So I urge today, colleagues, that we correct this mistake of individual troublemakers and protect the social rights of our citizens, our Chernobylites, who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u65	Thank you. The 14th Committee's position is to reject, right, Rocksolan Andriyev?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u66	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u67	Thank you. 14 repairs to the potter. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[11:29:04]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next, 15th, Bujansky. Don't insist. 16th, Krulko. He doesn't insist on any of his corrections. It's a testicle. He doesn't insist on any of his corrections. Yeah, did I get it right? Thank you. Mushroom. He doesn't insist on any of his corrections. Yeah? Yes, thank you. 19th Amendment, Prostík. Don't insist. 20th, Babenko. Don't insist. 21st. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear friends, I go on. Unfortunately, I see the MPs are not interested, but I will continue to tell you about real life in the state. It's not your idea of where you live right now, getting your constant somewhere, having vacation plans where there are other islands or somewhere else, but real life. And the real life is like that. We're saying that this budget should be a war country, an army in the first place. Now let me tell you about the reality of our army. And it is: A person gives up his health for the state, becomes unfit, for example, for the DHW or for other such serious forces. The man is taken out of the state and the man begins to receive 600, 700, 800 dollars a month! Not for a day, not for one coffee, not for a month. Well, that's a shame, change it!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u69	21 Correction of the Pottery, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[11:30:53]] For-52 The decision is not taken. 22nd, Tistik. Don't insist. 23rd, Bujansky and his colleagues don't insist. 24th, Krulko. Don't insist. 25th, Grissom. Don't insist. 26th, Prostuk. Don't insist. 27th, Babenko. Don't insist. 28th Affairs Committee. Don't insist. It's rejected. 29th, Ironman. Don't insist. 30th, Krulko. Don't insist. 31st Committee on Economic Development. Don't insist. 32 revisions. The Committee on Economic Development does not insist. 33rd. 33rd, Eutusek. Please, one minute. Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u70	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. In my amendment, I asked for the deletion of article 8, which reads in the third paragraph of what. In the government, something has been decided instead of the normal figure that the government envisions for this year at a minimum wage of 7,100, places those categories of pensioners who live in the Chernobyl area and have already been given court decisions on such payments, to limit the amount of 1,000,600 dollars. This is a violation of article 22 of the Constitution. First of all, the government had to conduct a clear monitoring and analysis of whether they were more affected in these areas, the third zone, the second zone, the first zone, the people on the oncosa, and then think about cutting costs. So, honourable colleagues, let's support my proposal, we're going to delete article 8 of that law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u71	Thirty-three amendments were made by a colleague named Eutuska and his colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[11:32:58]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. 34th, Ephim and his colleagues. Don't insist. 35th, Tretyakova. Don't insist. 36th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 37th, Timoshenko. Don't insist. I'm sorry, 37th, we agreed, Mikhail Mikhailovich Tsimbaluk 5 minutes instead of all the amendments that co-authorize. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u72	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the honourable colleagues! Indeed, the subject of the budget today is a major challenge for the Supreme Council and for the authorities as a whole. Objectively speaking, this is the budget of the warlord and the defence and security sector in the first place and in the first place, of course we support it. In the second place, social policy. When you say totals, it's increased by almost 50 billion, it's positive, but when you talk about specifics, let me stop with a few comments. First of all, it's veteran politics. When we talk about veteran politics, I think tomorrow in the session room we'll be able to communicate with the minister of this direction, there's a lot of comments. First. The cost of a veteran service or a veteran assistant service is allocated to the budget project. But even the Social Policy Committee has not presented a model, as the Ministry of the Creation of this Service sees, is extremely important, it is expected in places. The next thing we want to understand clearly how the funds allocated for the acquisition of military families, for their families, will be used, is also an extremely important issue. The next thing you know, a colleague of John Krulko's has already said, in addition, there's already funding for the treatment of those who are severely injured for prosthetics, which is also a positive thing. And even the fact that the budget committee has already allocated additional funds to the protégés of military and civilian persons who have suffered war injuries is also a positive thing. But the minimum of living is, of course, a macro-indicator that's in the draft budget, it can't handle any criticism, because those almost 3,000 dollars, it's the main statistic that pays off more than 20 social benefits and payments. So let's say there's not enough money in the draft budget that doesn't even cover half of the real living minimum and the government needs to review that figure. Next, we offered to allocate 150 million in the next year's budget for the treatment of children deprived of parental care, orphans who were cured every year in the western part of our country, where there are wonderful conditions. Regrettably, the next year, the government has moved away from the subject. And the question is, where are the children of the eastern territories, the eastern areas that were affected by the war? It's a non-professional approach, it's not state-owned, and we still demand that we take this article into account in the development of the budget on the recovery of children of different categories. Dear colleagues, when we talk about the draft budget, there are still, of course, a large number of amendments that concern not only the social sphere. When we talk about medicine, the younger medical unit today cannot work for such a meager wage, for a living minimum. Today, nurses in hospitals receive an average of 4.5 to 5,000 dollars, according to the people. Can the family survive for that amount? Of course not. And these experts are already catastrophically lacking in the medical facilities of our state. In view of the war, the medical profession in general should be paid more. The same is true of the health - care workers involved today in the treatment of our patients. Because of this, my dear colleagues, I am addressing the representatives of the Committee of Budgets, I am very sorry that they did not take into account the large number of amendments we have made. Thank you for counting. We're waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u73	Thank you, Michael Mikhailovich. I take it we don't make amendments anymore. Thank you. 38th, Demchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u74	Thank you. I am addressing the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Marchenko, Mr. Hermolichev, Deputy Demchenko. And I understand, and you understand that the MPs expressed themselves in their position to ransom the government, to buy back the Ministry of Finance, and that's what they're offering, the committee said that the Ministry of Finance should look at them and look at the possibility of taking them into account. I wanted to say that the rule of law that is now in the right is trying to correct violations, possible violations of the Constitution and other laws on trying to set a separate form of subsistence minimum for individual groups of citizens that are not provided for in the Constitution. Accordingly, I would like to refer to the fact that there are already a number of Supreme Court rulings that have determined such an approach without complying with the rules of the Constitution, and the persons concerned are withdrawing the corresponding funds additionally from the State. So please, the Ministry of Finance, make sure that you do not violate the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u75	Are you insisting on this amendment? Don't insist. Thank you. Let's move on. Next amendment to 39th, Podlas. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u76	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u77	Thank you. 40th, Timoshenko and his colleagues are on the stand. 41st, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 42nd, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. Don't insist. 43rd Mamka Grigory Mikolayovich. Don't insist. 44th, Timoshenko. Don't insist. 45th, Brainy. Are you insisting? Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u78	Ruslan Alexiyovich, give me 45th, 49th, 93rd, 94th, 95th and three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u79	Again, if I may, 45th, 49th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u80	45th, 49th, 93rd, 94th and 98th. Five rights, give me three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u81	Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I don't understand what's going on in this room right now, because calling it a 24-year budget review is propaganda. I want people to know. I think the committee head should confirm that. I think that's what the Head of the Supreme Council should say, because yesterday Parliament did not vote on Law 10037, from which revenue is set as income and budget expenditure for the 24th year. So today it was not possible to enter into this law at all. About what Law 10037? This is to take away any resources in the local government, not to increase the state's budget, but to usurp power at the central level, to destroy decentralization reform. By thus cementing the activity of the majority. Let us call what is happening today in Parliament and not just in Parliament. So, Rocsolana Andriyevna, why don't you explain to me what incomes you're now appealing if you don't have a budget of 10037? That's the first one. It's different. Ruslan Alexiyovich, don't tell her not to answer. She's a specialist, she knows what to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u83	I'll take care of it myself, Dmitri Alexanderovich, what can I say? Thank you. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u84	Thank you. But you don't have to interrupt me. You'll be able to get a line like any other national MP. You know that. You're equal to the equal if I'm right. But Rocksolana Andriyevna, back to the question. Please give this answer because you rejected the above-mentioned remedies, which, for example, add revenue to the National Bank budget, increase other social expenditure, etc. If today we have an unwarranted budget for 2024, how do we view this budget today? Well, fortunately, today is a little bit more, so far more than 30 people's deputies in the hall as it was during our consideration of the 10038 bill, which, again, I remind you, there was a lot of people who were singing both in social media and in the hall about what was very difficult to work with. In fact, the Committee and the Governing Body were able to send the President’s Office only five days later. Please tell me what made it harder for you to do this faster because you didn't count any of the proper adjustments and from our "Smart Politics" team from the other factions? Why did this take so long? And that's how you delayed the additional funding of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Despite the fact that they didn't count the 11 extra billion I was talking about and my colleagues in the "Smart Politics" team. Thank you in advance for your professional response.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u85	The position of the committee on these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u86	At the right 45, it is proposed to increase government budget expenditure by 562 billion dollars. The sources of these expenses are not mentioned, so the committee suggests that they be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u87	Thank you. Now I'm going to answer, Dmitri Alexanderovich, if I may, and I'll figure out what I'm going to talk to my colleague about. You don't even know what we're talking about, but you're already forming this vision of yourself, it's your right. As for the bill's signature, I think you know very well that there are two days of work so that one of the national MPs can make a blocking amendment. It was these two days that the document was signed, in accordance with the Rules addressed to the President. Thank you. There were working days, Dmitri Alexanderovich, and we had Saturdays and Sundays that didn't count as working days. Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Is that why we should vote in favour of these amendments? 45 Amendment Reasonable and Colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[11:44:51]] For-38 The decision is not taken. 49 Amendments Reasonable and Colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[11:45:12]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 93. You don't have to, yeah. Okay, thanks. We will not continue to vote in favour of these amendments. Let's move on. 46th, Shpak. Don't insist. 47th, Timoshenko. They've already said it. 48th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 49th, Brainy. He's already voted. 50th, Aresonkov. Aresonkov, please, 50th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u88	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, we can certainly agree that in the formation of the budget, the government is looking for every opportunity to save, accumulate funds and direct them to the needs of the army, to the needs of a full-fledged country in such difficult circumstances. At the same time, we cannot agree that this should be done through a substantial reduction in the social standards that apply to citizens. And I ask you to vote in favour of the amendment where the government proposes in Article 8 to set the living minimum, the minimum wage of 1,600 dollars in payment for the court's decision. This is an anti-constitutional norm, and the GNEU has given a completely negative conclusion, so I'm asking you to put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u89	The committee's position is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u90	The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u91	50 Amendment of Aresonkov, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[11:47:07]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next, 51st, Vasilevska Smagluk. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 52nd. Fuck. Don't insist. 53rd. Yvchenko. Don't insist. 54th, Ruddick. Don't insist. 55th, Timoshenko. I've already said it. 56th, Timoshenko with colleagues. They've already said it. 57th, Cabal. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Please, Cabal, 57 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u92	Give me three minutes, and then I won't insist on the next 10 rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u93	Please give 3 minutes to the Cabal instead of the following 10 amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, with regard to this draft budget, more specifically the budgetary conclusions that we have drawn up on the committee, we have tried to be as objective and considerate as possible this year. I think every member of the committee will confirm that these budget conclusions are completely thoughtful, they don't have any, I emphasize, no skin, as we like to say. And all the questions that we've included in the Cabinet's proposals are really necessary questions for the state. This is a 10 billion-dollar increase in revenue to reduce government debt. It's a question of increasing the funding of the medical course. This is a question of reducing capital expenditure, so we're going back to 2022, when we've substantially reduced capital costs, now we're going to see less stadiums, clumps, roads. So these are the questions that all factions, I'm sure, support. But what I wanted to say. In fact, this draft budget foresees that 200 billion for security and defence funding will be financed at the expense of, say, the extermination of the Road Fund for 2024. So we're not going to build roads now, and we're going to send this money to the army. And given that we're military PFCs, that's the military taxes they're paying for the army, that's 200 billion, colleagues. It's funding the army for over a month and a half. And I just want to take this opportunity to look at everyone, without that 200 billion dollars for the army, it's less than a month and a half. So let's support these budgetary conclusions, but understanding that two weeks from now we're going to have to support the 10037 Bill, which additionally allocates to the army, we don't have to say that it's in the state budget, yes, the state budget, because the army is financed from the state budget. That's an additional 200 billion for the army. Without them, the budget won't work. Without them, the army won't get funding for a month and a half. Let's throw away all our political thoughts here and so on and vote for 37 laws, without it this project won't work, without it the army won't have any money. My colleagues, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u95	Thank you, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. 59th Amendment, Ruddick. Don't insist. 60th, Mama. Don't insist. 61st, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 62nd, Timoshenko. They've already said it. 64th Committee of Public Authority. Don't insist. 65th Committee on Economic Development. Don't insist. 66th Committee on Economic Development. Don't insist. 67th, Zabranna. Don't insist. 68th, Kovalov. Don't insist. 69th, Silent. Don't insist. 72nd, Ephim and his colleagues. Don't insist. 74th Committee on the Organization of State Authorities. Don't insist. 75th, Timoshenko. We've already said it. 77th, Ephim and his colleagues. Don't insist. 78th, the Cabal has already spoken. 79th, Ephim and his colleagues. Don't insist. 80th, the Cabal has spoken. 81st, Ephim and his colleagues. Don't insist. 82nd, 83rd, the Cabal said. 84th, Ephim and his colleagues. Don't insist. 85th Economic Development Committee. Don't insist. 86th, Stormy. Don't insist. 87 amendment, Kovalov. Don't insist. 88 repairs, Silent. Don't insist. Excuse me, 90th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 91st, Ephim and his colleagues. Don't insist. 92nd, Ephim and his colleagues. Don't insist. Yes, 93rd, Razumkov has already expressed himself on this amendment and 94th. 95th, Molotok. Don't insist. 96th, the Cabal, has already spoken. 97th, Magera. Don't insist. 98th, Razumkov, has already spoken. 99th, Shpak. Don't insist. 100th, the Cabal said. 101st Vassilevska-Smagluk. Don't insist. 102nd, Krulko. Don't insist. 104th, the Cabal, has already spoken. 105th, Mazurashu. Georgi Georgievovich approached me and said that instead of 105th, 108th, 111th, 112th, 114th and 240th, he asked for three minutes and put to the vote just 240th. Am I right? Please, Mazurash.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u96	George Mazurashu, Servant of the People, 203 District. I want to focus on the 240 amendment, which provides for maximum wage limits in the degree at the time of the state of war for the 10 minimum wage. I would like to point out to my colleagues that such a restriction has already been introduced, also through the State Budget Act 2020, on the proposals of the government, and then the Constitutional Court found these restrictions to be unconstitutional. But it says in the decision that they consider unconstitutional restrictions during COVID but possible under conditions of war and state of emergency. And here's what I'm going to say, at the time of the war, is to limit the maximum wage in the holding sector to ten "minimals". You know, we've got some kind of thrashing right now, which is, on the one hand, we're actively discussing some of the fancy wages of the nards there, 200,000, 240 and so on. And at the same time, we don't want to limit something to the actual maximum wage in the holding sector for those who actually get hundreds of thousands in the state of war and some million more. And of course, it's not about the civil servants who get small wages there, and it's not about that -- it's the absolute majority, because we have in the holding sector, which is said in the anecdotes: the state is making the appearance that it pays, and people are making the appearance that they sometimes do, and those who get, even under the conditions of war, hundreds of thousands and millions, and more -- Naftogaz and so on. This should not be the case in a warring country. In a warring country, the most important thing they have to do is earn military at the front, military at the front, not even at headquarters, but at the front. So I'm asking you, colleagues, to support this 240 amendment that I'm going to put into account. And I'll remind you that the military from the forward, from the Constantinen, from other locations where they've been in recent times, they're asking us to be open, open with society, asking us to speak frankly, to communicate with society. If we are restricted to constitutional rights of citizens who can't be restricted even under martial law, this applies, for example, to the restrictions on the exit of male citizens during the war abroad and so on, so to speak, and to tell the government what you're violating, you can't even do it in a state of war, it's important. And this amendment, I repeat, the 240th that I'm going to put into account is about justice. Because we're saying that in terms of the state of war, we have to pull the straps, and at the same time, someone gets hundreds of thousands and millions and more in the holding sector. That's not supposed to happen, only the military can get into the military. During the war, more than 10 "minimals".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand we're putting 240 in, right? I'm putting 240 amendments to the authorship of Mazuras. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[11:56:03]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 105th, Mazurashu. We're through. 106th, Krulko. He doesn't insist anymore. Tymoshenko, 107th. Here we go. 109th, Krulko. I'm on it. 110th, Timoshenko. Here we go. 111th, Mazurashu. I'm on it. 112th, Mazurashu. I'm on it. 113th, Krulko. Don't insist. 114th, Mazurau. I'm on it. 115th, Cabal. I'm on it. 116th, Ephim and his colleagues. Don't insist. 117th, Krulko. Don't insist. 118th, Cabal. I'm on it. 119th, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. Don't insist. 120th, Kid Maxim. Don't insist. 121st, County. Don't insist. 122nd, Gerus. Don't insist. 123rd, Krasov. Don't insist. 124th, Krulko. Don't insist. 125th, the Cabal. I'm on it. 126th, Iron. Don't insist. 127th, Clumsy. Don't insist. 128th, County. Don't insist. 129th, Gerus. Don't insist. 130th, Krasov. Don't insist. 131st, Krulko. Don't insist. 132nd, Brainy. Smart guy, 132, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u98	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. 132 revisions, it's important enough. According to article 20, paragraph 2, of the project: "Societies of the mastermind whose statutory capital is the corporate rights of the state, and societies of the economy, 50 percent or more of which are owned by households, a share of which is 100 percent that have not decided on the payment of dividends by May 1st." Well, I can't read it all. An important amendment, it will enable more government budget revenue, allow more transparent work, reduce corruption risks. Sadly, the profile committee did not support her. I hope the hall votes, but seeing the potential that it is, I understand that it probably won't. Rocsolana Andriyevne, if possible, explain why the committee didn't support her, what she didn't do to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u99	Position of the 132-way committee with colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u100	The rule of law states that if a state enterprise has not approved a decision to recalculate dividends, these dividends are virtually enforced. If we cancel these standards, this will lead to the failure to find a government budget, our internal resources, for many billions of dollars. We can't let that happen because the dividends of state-owned enterprises, including the financing of defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u101	You insist on this amendment, do you? 132 Amendments Reasonable and Colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[11:59:29]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 134, Iron. Don't insist. 135th, Clumsy. Don't insist. I'm sorry, it's partial, but it's partial. 136th, County. Don't insist. 137th, Gerus. Don't insist. 138th, Krasov. Don't insist. 139th, Krulko. Don't insist. 140th Committee on Humanities and Information Policy. Don't insist. 141st, Zmerenecki. Don't insist. 132nd, Ephimov. Don't insist. Excuse me, 142nd. It's 143rd Vassilevska Smogluk. Don't insist. 144th, Vasilchenko. Don't insist. 145th, Ephim and his colleagues. Don't insist. 146th, Krulko. Don't insist. 148th, Cabal. Don't insist. 149th Committee on Economic Development. Don't insist. 150th, Molotok. Don't insist. 151th, Ephimov and his colleagues. Don't insist. 153rd, Committee on the Organization of State Authorities. Don't insist. 154th State Authority Committee. Don't insist. 155th, same committee. Don't insist. 156th, Frolov. Don't insist. 157th State Authority Committee. Don't insist. 158th, Cabal. Don't insist. 159th State Authority Committee. Don't insist. 160th, Tretyakova. Don't insist. 161th, Mikisha. Don't insist. 163th. Oh, he insists? Excuse me, Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u102	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Rocksolana Andriyovn, this right here is regulation 161, she says it's purely technical. We are simply introducing an additional paragraph that will help to build – new construction, reconstruction, restoration, capital repair of research infrastructure objects, taking into account the need to create conditions for access to advanced research infrastructures in the European Union. I don't understand why this is primarily important for the same National Research Fund, and for others, it's a technical opportunity for the Innovation Fund to do the right thing. Why don't you bring it in, I don't understand. It's not resourceful, it doesn't require extra money, it doesn't require extra resources. It's just that we actually let it happen in the text. Why it's rejected, I don't understand. If possible, please explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u103	A brief committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u104	The amendment is proposed to be rejected because it expands the use of funds in the fund to eliminate the consequences of armed aggression, because next year we will not have the stable revenues of this fund. We're going to have the proceeds of selling confiscated Russian assets, but it's a big question of how much the holding fund can sell them. In addition, the 24-year budget sets out the general principle of reducing capital expenditure and directing all possible funds to the defence and rehabilitation needs of military personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u105	Are you insisting on this amendment? 161 Mikishi's amendment. She's rejected by the committee, the author insists on counting. I'll bet 161. Please vote. [[12:02:48]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 163, I'm sorry, Tarasenko and his colleagues. Don't insist. 165th, Frolov. Don't insist. 166th, Roadside. Don't insist. 168th, Roadside. Don't insist. 169th State Authority Committee. Don't insist. 171th, Ephimov. Don't insist with your colleagues. 173rd Committee on Economic Development. Don't insist. 174th, Ephimov and his colleagues. Don't insist. 175th, Cabal. Don't insist. 176th, Ephim and his colleagues. Don't insist. 177th, Ephim and his colleagues. Don't insist. 178th, Mokan Vasil Ivanovich does not insist. 179th, Tretlyak's Galina Mikolayevna. Don't insist. 181, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. 181. 180th, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. 181, Dubnov. Don't insist. 182th, Tretyakova. Don't insist. 183rd, Commission on the Organization of State Authorities. Don't insist. It's a committee on state-of-the-art issues. Don't insist. 185th, Timoshenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 186th, Ephimov and his colleagues. Don't insist. Next. 188th, Cabal. Don't insist. 191th, Silence, overruled. Don't insist. 192nd, Kovalov. Don't insist. 193, Zabranna. Don't insist. Next. 197th, Marussak with his colleagues. Don't insist. 198, Ruddick. Don't insist. 199, Mama and her colleagues. Don't insist. 200th, Timoshenko and his colleagues have spoken. 201th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 202, Tretyakova. Don't insist. 203, Marussak with his colleagues. Don't insist. 204th, Cabal. Don't insist. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, you won't insist at all, will you? Okay, I'll give it to you later, 'cause this one's already been missed. 205, Ruddick. Don't insist. 206, Mama and her colleagues. Don't insist. 207th, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. 208th, Yvchenko Vadim. Don't insist. 209, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. 210th, Tretyakova. Don't insist. 211th Economic Development Committee. Don't insist. 213, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. 215th, Beerware. Don't insist. 216th Economic Development Committee. Don't insist. 217th, Schuljak. Don't insist. 218th, Negulewski. Don't insist. 220th, I'm sorry, Honcharenko. Are you insisting? Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u106	Dear friends, I want to continue to tell you about the numbers that people really live on. Because I get it, here, maybe, you know, we're watching a wedding in Lviv with a hundred thousand bracelets up two feet where the wedding, the young are the exonerator and the ex-worker of the D.B.I. So we realize that they have a different understanding of what money is, what money is, and what money is needed. Here's a very interesting question, by the way, how did they do it in the DA's office and D.B.I. to do it? Well, people are shocked by that. And that's what we need to talk about, and that's what we need to do and answer, because it can't be like that. I'll remind you, today's life-saving nurse lives on four or five thousand dollars a month, and that's two years for one cake to earn. A kindergarten teacher is the same thing. The workers of the Crossroads, who ride our wounded, who save us every day, there are a pitiful few thousand bracelets from the leader. Well, that's a shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u107	The committee's position on the 220th Hotcharyenk amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u108	With this amendment, the author proposes to write off the government’s debt to the local budget for more than 10 billion dollars. So the government budget gave credit instead of paying to single moms or military or to support the business date, he gave credit to local budgets to transfer the news. More specifically, they were for much more noble purposes, but they used them, as always, for construction. And now a number of authors are offering this debt to forgive. The Committee on Budgets does not support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u109	Well, you've heard the position of colleagues. 220 amendments to the potter's committee were rejected. Please vote. [[12:07:52]] For-28 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains rejected. 221, Grissom. Declined. Don't insist. 222th, Prostruk. Don't insist. 223, Bujansky. Oh, it's partially accounted for. 224th, Krulko. Don't insist. 225th, Babenko. Don't insist. 227th. Timishenko and her colleagues have already spoken. 229th, Salamaha. Don't insist. 230th, Bogdan. Don't insist. 231th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 232th, Kunaev. Don't insist. 233, Kunaev. Don't insist. 234th, Kunaev. Don't insist. 235th, Pasic. Don't insist. 236th, Pasic. Don't insist. 237th Committee on Education, Science and Innovation. Don't insist. 238, Babak. Don't insist. 239, Mama. Don't insist with your colleagues. 241, Dubinsky. Don't insist. 242th, Bogdanic. Don't insist. 243, Aliksiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 244th, Frolov Paul. Don't insist. 245, Roadside. Don't insist. 246th, Shulak. Don't insist. 247, Mikisha. He insists. Please, Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u110	Thank you. 247 law, it's about the State Regional Development Fund. Look, I'm proposing what to do with this. That part of the funds is 50 percent, the equal parts between the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the districts and cities of Kiev, Sevastopol, and 50 percent of the funds are additionally equal parts between the areas most affected, let's say, by the destruction and overall impact of the Russian Federation's aggression on these areas. I think that's fair and that's how the Regional Development Fund should work, because we're talking about regions in this context. So this amendment, I think, should be adopted in exactly the way I suggested it. Colleagues, please support and vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u111	247, Mikisha. Declined by the committee. Please vote. [[12:10:28]] For-26 The decision is not taken. 248, Mikisha. Please, will you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u112	Yeah. Look, colleagues, I very much ask you to pay attention to what this amendment is about. This is a bill for the State Regional Development Fund, but about their regional commissions. Come on, this is probably my third or fourth approach in the hall so we can finally break this corrupt link -- the regional commissions. Let's clean up, and actually this fund will start to work properly, to define, on a competitive basis, honestly and fairly the projects that really are needed for regional development. And it's definitely not in place, it's definitely not in manual mode, and it's definitely not under certain obligations, arrangements and other conditions. Let's actually eliminate this corrupt link once and for all. And we're going to define the winners honestly, and we're actually going to work effectively for regional development. Colleagues, please support this amendment at last and lift the DFRD regional commissions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u113	Thank you. 248, Mikisha. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:11:58]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 249, Economic Development Committee. Overruled. Don't insist. 250th, Ephim and his colleagues. Don't insist. 251, Brainy. He insists. Please, Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u114	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 251st, 359th, 375th, 386th, 403rd, 421, 433rd and 444th, that's eight rights, please change me for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u115	Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's another discussion in this room that this is a necessary step that we don't have enough. This budget is a necessary step that we do not have enough money to provide the army, because our own revenues go exclusively to the security and defence sectors. And that's logical and correct, if it wasn't for one big "but." This is not the truth. Why that's not true, you know that, or you forgot to tell the factions your captors. But this budget has put the cost back on the show. Again to make programs for "good Russians." This budget re-invests in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'd like to remind you all that two weeks ago you voted 1.4 billion extra for the Foreign Ministry. And then the whole country saw a new project, because I don't even know what to call it, so let's call this project honey minefields. Please tell me, is this really what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the War State is supposed to do? This is their key task -- bees and honey or international policy, or strategic partnership building, relations with different states, government visits, for example, one that has not taken place now in Israel? These are their calculations. It's their non-professionalism, it's their failure. And you're putting extra resources back on them. You're spending money on additional funding for the UXO instead of, for example, sending it to the security and defence sector. And the PNB, who spent money on the oligarch register, as if the oligarchs, who are all out now, and they say, we don't have to keep fighting the oligarchs. The PNB has taken such a position. The little one who jumped out of his pants and told me that there was literally no minute in the 21st year not to start this process. Now I'd like to remind the Minister of Finance, we're 23 years old. Two years later, there is no oligarch register. In fact, we can talk about the fact that the Ministry of Justice's leadership, as well as many other departments involved in this process, is working on the oligarchs rather than actually carrying out the reforms that our international partners are directly pointing to. Similarly in this budget, spending on totally incomprehensible things, for example, our ideas that were proposed to allocate the road fund's costs exclusively to the security and defence sector, the profile committee did not support, did not support the majority, because they want to spray it again on Big Construction instead of directing 50 percent to the fund, 100 percent of the entire fund needs to be sent to the security and defence sector, to the U.S.S.A., 50 percent of which will go to pay salaries, bonuses, and so on, to our guardians and 50 percent to buy weapons, techniques and ammunition. Because those who drive on the front well know that the key question for each brigade, for each commander, for each fighter, is to give the shells, give the mines. And because, unfortunately, we haven't fixed our production in two years, and again, I don't see the answer, and who's responsible. And no one, then they distribute them with pens and send them to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as ambassadors, because they can't find them a different place in the state. And these examples, unfortunately, are a lot in this budget, so again we see nice slogans, nice slogans about what we do for victory, everything for the front, everything for victory, and in fact, for many, it's a different front. The front in the East and the South one, and the front in Kiev is completely different, from which you can buy eggs of 17, jackets of summer instead of winter, apples of 52, shells of Poland that don't come to us. That's how we got the fronts.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u117	You insist on voting on all these amendments, don't you? Thank you. Let's move on then. 252, Krulko. Don't insist. 253, Timoshenko with his colleagues. We're on our way. 254th Legal Policy Committee. Don't insist. 255, Gerus. Don't insist. 256th. Gerus. Don't insist. 257th. Gerus. Don't insist. 258, Gerus. Don't insist. 259, Gerus. Don't insist. 260th. Gerus. Don't insist. 261. Gerus. Don't insist. 262. Gerus. Don't insist. Let's move on. 266th Economic Development Committee. Don't insist. 267th Digital Transformation Committee. Don't insist. 268th. Demchenko. Please, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance! The State Budget Act as a legal act has a special subject of regulation different from other laws of Ukraine. It refers exclusively to the establishment of state income and expenditure on common needs. Therefore, this law cannot be amended, stop the functioning of the laws in force in Ukraine, and establish another additional legal regulation of relations that is the subject of other laws. You're trying or the government is trying to get a proper bill to break a lot of decisions by the Constitutional Court on this point, starting in 2007 to this day. This includes the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges Act. Edited 268 to help you, to help me and supported by the appropriate committee of profile to see it. So you can solve this problem so that you don't violate the Constitution. Please wait for the second reading to take this into account in the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u119	Sergei, are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. Let's move on. 269, Mokan Vasil Ivanovich. Don't insist. 270th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 271, Aresonkov. Don't insist. 272nd, Leschenko. Don't insist. 273, Tzabal. Don't insist. 274th Committee on Humanities and Information. Don't insist. 276th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 277, Tretyakova. Don't insist. It's counted. 278, Iron. Doesn't the Iron Man insist? Thank you. 279th, Magera. Don't insist. 280th, Mikisha. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u120	Thank you. It's famous because it's talking about 30,000 military personnel in a 30-mile zone, because we understand. A 30-mile zone near the fighting. We realize that it's a really dangerous area where both shells and artillery and ELVs are taking place, and so on. But unfortunately, most military personnel, let's say, don't have a small portion, and they don't even get that 30. They're getting a naked salary, and there's some extra payoffs. So this right over here is proposing to add 30,000 dollars per month to the military personnel in the 30km zone to the collision line, based on every day they're in the area, they're considered fair with regard to those military personnel, DDSNs, police and others who are there. And so I ask everyone, my colleague, to support the proper amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u121	280 amendments to the Mikishi Committee have been rejected, please vote. [[12:21:42]] For-30 The decision is not taken. 281, Molotok. Don't insist. 282th, Timoshenko and his colleagues, have already spoken. 283, Dubinsky. Don't insist. 284, Demchenko. Please, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u122	Dear Mrs. Roxolano, I appeal to you, with due authority, I propose that you remove the issue of the corruption risk that the government is putting into this bill for the 24th year. First of all, the government approaches different authorities, one limiting wages to an appropriate minimum of living, the other not limiting this amount of wage. The amendment applies primarily to bodies such as NAMK, NABU and others, why are they such that they have priority over other workers in our country, why do they have no restrictions that make it logical for the government to restrict all relevant workers to the relevant spheres? Please explain this. On my part, I publicly state that if a corresponding norm is voted on in the second reading, criminal conduct will be registered following my initiative on government actions that contain a corrupt nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u123	Please, what is the position of the 284th Amendment Committee? Are you insisting, Sergei? Yes, please, Roxolano.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u124	Excluding this situation will result in a decrease in the salaries of the relevant DBD staff in 2024. If you want the D.B.I.'s employees' salaries to increase, you don't have to rule that out.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u125	You insist, Sergei, on this one? Don't insist. Thank you. Next, the next 286, Radina. Don't insist. 287th, Radina. Don't insist. 288, Tarasenko with his colleagues. Don't insist. 289, Frolov. Don't insist. 290th. Lushenko. Don't insist. 291, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 292, Aresonkov. Don't insist. 293th, Ephimov and his colleagues. Don't insist. 294, Timoshenko with his colleagues. They've already said it. 295th, Ruddick. Don't insist. 296th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 297th, Ruddick. Don't insist. 298, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 299th, Bezgin. Don't insist. 301, Cornyenka. Don't you insist, Alexander Sergiyovich? Don't insist. 304th State Authority Committee. Don't insist. 305th Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 306, Tretyakova. Don't insist. 307, Molotock. Don't insist. 308th, Timoshenko with colleagues. She did. 309th State Authority Committee. Don't insist. 310, Dubnov. Don't insist. 311th, Cornie. Alexander Sergiyovich. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u126	I received a comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u127	We got an exhaustive answer from the committee -- that's great. 313, Demchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u128	Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Hermolichev, Mr. Ulutin! I'm asking you that this paper will give you a chance to get your second reading to clean up the possible manipulation with beams, with types and so on, with the order of new wages for the employees of the central authorities. Probably, since they are central authorities, not executive authorities, Kabin did not pay attention to them. I'm asking you to pay attention to them, these are representatives of the judiciary, also of the central government, they have to refer to this first category, which is distributed throughout the country. So this is an amendment for you so that you don't violate the rules of the Constitution and the law. Please consider it when preparing the draft budget for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u129	Thank you. You don't insist, Sergei, do you? Thank you. 314, Dubnov. Don't insist. 315th State Authority Committee. Don't insist. 316th, Gerus. Don't insist. 317, Dubnov. Don't insist. 318th State Authority Committee. Don't insist. 319, Dubnov. Don't insist. 320th State Authority Committee. Don't insist. 321st, Cabal. Don't insist. 322, Dubnov. Don't insist. 323rd State Authority Committee. Don't insist. 325th, German. Don't insist. 326th, Iron. Don't insist. 328th, Frolow. Don't insist. 329, Roadside. Don't insist. 330th, Chulak. Don't insist. 331st, Black Sea. Don't insist. 332rd, Frolov. Don't insist. 333rd, Roadside. Don't insist. 334th, Chulak. Don't insist. 336th, Rudik. Don't insist. 337th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 338th, Timoshenko. Don't insist. 339th, Mama. Don't insist. 340th, Timoshenko. Don't insist. 341st Committee on Education, Science and Innovation. Don't insist. 342, Timoshenko with his colleagues. Here we go. 343, Timoshenko with his colleagues. Here we go. Same thing for 344. 345, Timoshenko with his colleagues. Here we go. 346, Timoshenko with his colleagues. Here we go. 347th, Timoshenko with colleagues. Here we go. 348, Volintz. Don't insist. 349, Timoshenko with his colleagues. Here we go. 350th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 351, Rudik. Don't insist. 353, Timoshenko with his colleagues. Here we go. 354th, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u130	Mr. Ruslan, four corrections, three minutes, and one for confirmation. In three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u131	Can you tell me the numbers right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u132	354, 382, 383 and 384.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u133	Please, three minutes to Jujanini instead of these four amendments. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, you all know that when natural gas is extracted, the rent is paid at the rates set by the Tax Code. And these bets are both fiscal and stimulating. The basic rate of rent for gas production is 29 percent, and for gas deposits more than 5,000 feet [5,000 m] is 14. At the same time, in order to stimulate its own production of natural gas, there is such a rule in the Tax Code that the introduced rent rates for new wells are 12 instead of 29, and 6 interest rates instead of 14. However, the incomplete settlement of the issue of relating wells to new ones has led us to have significant budget losses. We now have every well, five or four wells coming out as new ones, and in fact they're fighting at old sites and drilling exclusively to support the flow of mining. And it's quite obvious that here, through tax administration and well drilling information, you can bring the standard into line so that there is no manipulation and tax evasion. And also, you remember when you beat yourself in the chest and took the rent-a-gas standards to take the profits out of the company when the price of gas was 10 times higher than it is now. I think by not looking at the standards, we can sort this out, and we've done it with experts, and we've offered an additional resource of 15 billion dollars to the budget. If you don't consider such proposals, and you're only going to talk there about 1 trillion of any of the expenses added to the repairs, then I think everyone here is deaf and doesn't hear what needs to be done. I'm addressing the Deputy Minister of Finance again. Please, if we understand each other, if we're not playing war here, and we're really doing everything for our victory, let's find a second reading consensus with tax specialists, our own committee of profile, and definitely pay attention. So it can't be that there's been a double decline in budget revenue, a double reduction in 24 years' schedule, which is 23rd. This is clearly your mistake, let's settle it and take it out of the profits that will help our Armed Forces. That's why I don't see the point here. Let's move together. It's not just political statements, I'm calling you to work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u135	Nina Petrovna, what adjustments did you want to make?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u136	384th, the basic adjustment for an increase in the budget's income by 15 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u137	I'm sorry, she's part-time, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u138	384?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u139	384th, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u140	Are you in charge?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u141	Yes, she's in charge, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u142	All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u143	Then it's none of them, is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u144	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, let's move on. 355th, Fris. Don't insist. 356, Purtova. Don't insist. 357, Bujansky. Don't insist. 358, Krulko. Don't insist. 360th, Shpak. Don't insist. 361th, Tistik. Don't insist. 362 Vasilchenko and his colleagues. Don't insist. 363, Goncharenko. Please. Are you insisting, Alexi?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u146	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u147	Please, Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u148	Alexei Hotcharenko. Friends, take special care to make sure that everyone sees and understands our priorities. So once again, we're talking about today in our country getting paid by the person who got out of the state of the military, 600 or 700 dollars per month, per month. We've got people working at the Crossroads, a guide can get 3, 4, 5,000 dollars a month, a driver can get 8 or 10,000 dollars a month. At the same time, we see a wedding in Lviv with a 100,000 - dollar cake. It can't be that way in the state, it can't be that way. We have to fix it urgently. Yeah, it's supposed to be a budget for war, but it's also supposed to be a budget for justice. So, my friends, I'm asking you to have this budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u149	363 repairs to the potter. The committee's dismissed. Are you insisting? Oh, no? Don't insist. Thank you. 364th, Grissom. Don't insist. 365th, Prostruk. Don't insist. 366th, Babenko. Don't insist. 368, Iron. Don't insist. 369, Ironman. Do Not Urge 370, Ironman. Don't insist. 371, Purtova. Don't insist. 372, Bujansky. Don't insist. 373, Krulko. Don't insist. 374th, Hotcharyenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u150	Alexei Hotcharenko. Guys, keep talking about priorities. And so, I said about military wages, I'm just writing, the Crucifixion and so on. Now let's continue, this is a cake we have 100,000 dollars at the D.B.I.'s wedding and the D.B.I.'s office. But how about we fund the D.B.I. in this budget? I have a problem with that and I have a question about how it really should be, so let's keep going. What does the nurse receive today? Nurse - 4-5 thousand dollars per month, per month. Emergency medical care is the kind of person who goes on all the flights, everything and saves them there, it could be 8, 9, 10,000 dollars a month. So it takes them a year to get a cake as a prosecutor and a debutante.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u151	374th, Goncharenko. Don't you insist on her? Don't insist. Thank you. Let's move on. 376th, Shpak. Don't insist. 377th Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 378th, Grissom. Don't insist. 379th, Tistik. Don't insist. 380th, Prostruk. Don't insist. 381st, Babenko. Don't insist. 385, Purtova. Don't insist. 387th, Shpak. Don't insist. 388th, Bujansky. Don't insist. 389th, Krulko. Don't insist. 390. Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u152	Dear friends, these were important numbers, I think, for everyone. But I keep going, I keep going, and I want you to keep seeing these numbers. I already said, 600-700 bracelets is military, out of state, that's thousands of them. This is the Crucifixion, this is the M.E. driver, this is the nurse, this is the emergency medical care, and this is the pension, my friends, 2-2100, 2000-2100. And so for one wedding cake, a debutante and a prosecutor can: it takes 50 months to get a pension, collect, it takes 20 months to work as a nurse, it takes a year to work on emergency medical care, rescue people, it takes a military out of state (This, gentlemen, is how much?) It's ten years. Ten years! Is it called the Justice Budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u153	Don't you insist on 390? Thank you. Let's move on then. 391, Grissom. Don't insist. 392 Vasilchenko and his colleagues. Don't insist. 393, Prostuk. Don't insist. 394, Babenko. Don't insist. 395th, Tistik. Don't insist. 396, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 397th, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 398, Iron. Don't insist. 399th Ironman. Don't insist. 400th, Iron. Don't insist. 401, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 402, Goncharenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u154	The potter insists. Once again, we're saying it has a budget for war, not bullshit, sorry. Because we see how there are TV shows, drums, and no one needs this teletraphone anymore, and that's what money is for. Who doesn't have the money for? I'm continuing and I'm showing the military again. And our other military, our cadets? Well, now there's going to be a supplement starting to get. By the way, they can't start paying them off for the fourth month. But even when the payments start, 2,350 young officers are due in the future, 2,354 dollars a month. It's four years of scholarship to make a wedding cake from the DA's wedding and the D.B.I.'s employee. Four years! Friends, what's going on in our country! Should such be priorities? Should such be priorities, friends? Absolutely not. So this budget needs to be changed and changed on an urgent basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u155	Are you insisting on 402nd to vote? No, it's not. Thank you. 404, Shpak. Don't insist. 405, Bujansky. Don't insist. 406th, Krulko. Don't insist. 407, Vasilchenko. Don't insist. 408, Grissom. Don't insist. 409, Prostuk. Don't insist. 410th, Babenko. Don't insist. 411th, Tistik. Don't insist. 412, Purtova. Don't insist. 413th, Salamaha. Don't insist. 414th, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 415th, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 416, Purtova. Don't insist. 417th, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 418th, Goncharenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u156	Please continue on the budget of justice and the budget of injustice. It's an injustice budget, unfortunately, because that's what we have a student, a future officer, I already said 2,000-2100, let's do it. What do we have? Uh, what's the teacher's salary in kindergarten? It's a shame to say this, but we have a tutor today who can get 4,000 as well, and 4,000 as well. It's actually less of a minimum wage than it is, but it's also like that, friends, unfortunately, a lot. And that means that a kindergarten teacher needs, maybe two years, two years to get money to buy a cake that the prosecutor and the D.B.I. is ordering today during the war in our state and celebrates it loudly, and that's what the whole country is looking at. That can't be right. Let's urgently fix this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u157	Don't you insist on voting? Alexiyyovich, the only thing you need to do is raise the microphone, because the board probably makes it difficult for you to hear, frankly. Yeah. Please. Let's move on. 419th, Tistik. Don't insist. 420th Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 422nd, Shpak. Don't insist. 423nd, Bujansky. Don't insist. 424th, Krulko. Don't insist. 425th, Grissom. Don't insist. 426th Prostuk. Don't insist. 427th, Babenko. Don't insist. 428, Purtova. Don't insist. 429th, Salamaha. Don't insist. 431, Bujansky. Don't insist. 432th, Krulko. Don't insist. 443rd. Excuse me, 434 Shpak. Don't insist. 435th, Vasilchenko. Don't insist. 436, Hotcharyenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u158	Thank you. Guys, I'm going to keep talking about the justice budget and the justice budget. Unfortunately, we have a budget for injustice. Once again, it is clear that all our efforts must be made to do so. But friends, at the same time, there are more than, well, almost 2 billion dollars per marathon, at the President's Office with endless advisors who don't know exactly what they're doing, so there's hundreds of millions of dollars and there's money for that too. But when it comes to work, I don't know what these people do at the President's Office. Because since June 30, you and I have been working on the Ukrainian Civil Service Supplement Act since June 30. For this moment, the U.S.S.S.A., termists, cadets, are limitedly injured and out of state, and the instructors are not paid. It's been going on for four months. Even the pathetic ones I'm writing here, what are we paying the President's Office for?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u159	Don't insist. Thank you, Alexeiovich. 437th, Tistik. Don't insist. 438th, Grissom. Don't insist. 439th, Prostruk. Don't insist. 440th, Babenko. Don't insist. 441s, Salamaha. Don't insist. 443, Vasilchenko. Don't insist. 444th, Shpak. Don't insist. 445th, Bujansky. Don't insist. 446th, Krulko. Don't insist. 447, Hotcharyenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u160	The potter insists. Unfortunately, there aren't enough people in the session room, and I'm telling you that, at night and somewhere, maybe our meeting is going to be, because we're not that interesting and not that important. But I want to say the main thing. Look, I've written out all these numbers: military -- 600-700 dollars a month out of state; Ukrzalznice's employee, leader -- 3, 4, 5; 8-10 thousand -- machine; nurse -- 4-5 thousand; emergency assistance -- 8, 9, 10 thousand dollars; student even with an extra charge of 2,350; pension -- 2,000, 2200 thousand dollars a month. Please, it's all there is. And the cake is 100,000 bracelets bought directly by the D.B.I.'s attorney and employee. What does that mean? This means that our budget is neither fair nor right.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u161	You don't insist, do you, Alexia? Don't you insist on this amendment? Don't insist. Let's move on. 448th, Tistik. Don't insist. 449, Grissom. Don't insist. 450th, Prostuk. Don't insist. 451, Babenko. Don't insist. 452, Ruddick. Don't insist. 453, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. 453rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u162	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, I ask you to listen very carefully. I now have five rights, I mean not now, and today I'm going to put each and every one of them, I'm going to sincerely ask everyone in this room to support and vote. This amendment applies to the creation of an additional budget programme. The name, now listen carefully, "Paying off one-time cash assistance in the event of death, death, disability or partial loss of employment without the establishment of disability, military personnel, military and reserve personnel who are assigned to educational and special congregations or to serve in the military reserve." This program is about 5.3 billion dollars. On what account? At the expense of the D.B.I.'s money, at the expense of the prosecutor's money, and at the expense of increasing the qualifications of prosecutors' staff, and so on and so forth. So the money is taken from the law enforcement agencies in part and given to the military. I sincerely ask everyone to vote in favour of this amendment now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u163	453 Amendment by Gerasimov, committee. 453, I said. 453rd Amendment by Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:45:20]] For-37 The decision is not taken. 454, Timoshenko. Declined, colleagues have already appeared. 457th, Dubinsky. Don't insist. 458, Committee on Rules of Procedure. Rejected amendment. Don't insist. 459th Committee on Rules of Procedure. Don't insist. 460s, Bondar. Don't insist. 461, Dubinsky. Don't insist. 462th, Dmitrieva. Don't insist. 464th, Eugene. Instead of Jujanina, Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u164	464 amendments, I'm going to insist on voting, although there's almost no one here to vote. The paper provides for a reduction of 52.2 million funding for the State Administration, and, more precisely, for the President's Office of Information. I'm sorry, we've got 58 in the President's Office, some kind of semi-legal, non-declared advisors. We've got a bunch of people out there who are influencing different processes that don't know how, they have a bunch of money, and they still need some informational extra material? We don't have enough money for military personnel, we don't have enough money for social services, social services. So let's cut this by 52.2 million funding, and then we can turn this money into the things that are critically needed, not just the pleasure of some hotel, of the President's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u165	464 revisions, authorships by Fedina and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:47:20]] For-36 The decision is not taken. 465th, Bondar. Don't insist. 467th, Dmitrieva. Don't insist. 468, Cornyenka. Don't insist. 469, Motovilovec. Don't insist. 470th, Bondar. Don't insist. 471, Bondar. Don't insist. 472, Dubinsky. Don't insist. 473, Hero. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, according to the Constitution and Ukrainian legislation, should not block the work of the Inter-Parliamentary National Deputies of Ukraine, according to their sympathy, antipathies, give them or not give them a mission, as, for example, I have been blocked by official missions to Poland, to be an observer in the elections of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, but to take steps to ensure the presence of people's deputies in plenary sessions. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to carry out his duties and take measures now so that there are not 50 but 410 people's deputies here, because my amendment is extremely important. We propose to redistribute 370 million dollars as a tool for the Ukrainian Cabinet, which escaped last year in the rear, while the Ukrainian Armed Forces were protecting Ukraine and Kiev, and we propose to redistribute these funds to the U.S.S. Your head.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u167	Since I have been mentioned, I also highly recommend getting acquainted with article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly states that it is the Head of the Supreme Council who represents the Supreme Council in relations with other authorities of the State of Ukraine and with the authorities of other states. And everything else he's delegateing, he's delegateing within the framework of the People's Deputy Status Act and the Supreme Council Rules, which is what I do. Now, with regard to my duty, I urge the people’s deputies to join in the discussion of the budget that is taking place in this room. I carried out my duties and called on the national deputies to carry out their duties. Thank you. Let's move on. 473, we vote. Yes. Please, the 473rd authorship of Heratchenko and colleagues, she's dismissed, please vote. [[12:49:54]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Can I see the factions? It's a shame your whole faction didn't support your amendment, yes. Thank you. Let's move on. 474, the Cabal. Don't insist. 475th, Eugene. Nina Petrovna, please. Who? Heratchenka, please. And who? Fedina, my God, please. Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u168	The amendment provides for a reduction of the financing of the Cabinet Secretariat by thirty - seven and a half million dollars. First of all, it is not possible to raise public officials to uncontrollable wages, especially at the same time that military salaries are cut, or the military receives 600,800 dollars a month. We propose to limit the wage increase of 2023 times the inflation index of 10.8 percent, and this should be fixed until we win the war and the economy stabilizes. And the financing of Kabmin, which is not even a single organ, is essentially a manual tool for the President's Office, an increase in funding, well, it's, frankly, marasmatic. So we propose that these thirty-seven and a half million be taken to Kabmin and redistributed to the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, particularly the families of the dead and the wounded. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u169	475 amendments, authorships by Fedina and colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[12:51:41]] For-35 The decision is not taken. 476th, Bondar. Don't insist. 477th Education Committee. Don't insist. 478, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 479th, Cabal. Don't insist. 480s. Nina Petrovna or Fedina? Fedia Sofia Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u170	480 lashes. The Society, you can imagine, does not have any funds to pay to the families of the deceased, but suddenly there are 572 million dollars to increase expenses for the Ukrainian State Service on food safety. We don't have to put regular drywalls on the front, the volunteers do it with their own strength, and we have an extra half a billion dollars on our service. I realize that there's probably an expansion in the state now, at the expense of all those who want to avoid military service and the protection of the state, but let's be honest. There's a pay that is now, we multiply it by an index of 10, 8 inflation, and we provide at the level that it should be. All wages will be raised after we win the war, now we have to provide the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Please support half a billion dollars on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u171	480 amendments, authorships by Fedina and colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[12:53:25]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. 481, the Gethmans. Don't insist. Next. 483rd, Tzabal. Don't insist. 484th Committee on Humanities and Information Policy. Don't insist. 485th, Cabal. Don't insist. 486th, Cabal. Don't insist. 487th, Bondar. Don't insist. 488th, Hero. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the authority of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is certainly not to raise opposition deputies and to demonstrate disgusting double standards, but to ensure compliance with the calendar plan of the session and the agenda of the plenary. Today our calendar work plan, the entire Parliament, is tied to the expeditions and "hotels" of the Head of the Supreme Council. This is when he intends to hold meetings, and they do. And it's very bad, because now it's important that all the deputies here be there to support my amendment that we're proposing to the Ukrainian State Statistics Service to cut their expenses by 637 million and to redirect these costs to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which is missing today on drones, on thermal visions, on cars, on security. By the way, the Head of the Supreme Council should ask once in public why they do not comply with the laws adopted by the Supreme Council, particularly with regard to payments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u173	Before I give you an answer, I'll give you a traditional answer. You know, with regard to the calendar plan, I just want to remind you that since the beginning of the war we have voted several times on a regulation that regulates the order of our session, which is continuous. And this decision is taken by the Conciliation Council, not by the Chief of the Supreme Council. I'm even surprised that with such superficial knowledge of legislation you have been so effectively in the presidency of the Supreme Council. But it's probably also up to the quality of your previous work. But 488 amendments. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:55:50]] For-25 The decision is not taken. 179th, Cabal. Yes, it doesn't. 190th, Eugene. Please, Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u174	That's 490 revisions, not 190, like you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u175	Excuse me, 490. I'm sorry, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u176	Friends, in this budget, it is proposed to increase spending on the State Statistics Service by 388 million. I'd very much like there to be representatives of the State Statistics Service here to check how many of them are in the room, how many are in the room, how many are in the vote, how many are in the government budget at all. Because it's marrasmatic when all MPs get the same salary, but most of them aren't in the hall. The State Statistical Service should also understand well, I think the workers understand that all possible resources must now be allocated to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Because, God forbid, our protectors won't make it, there won't be any State Statistics Service, no Supreme Council, no monotonousness as it is. Therefore, 490 laws propose to take 388 million additional expenses to the State Statistics Office and to transfer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u177	The 490 amendment of the authorship of Fedina and colleagues was rejected by the committee. Please vote. 490, again, please. [[12:57:32]] For-26 The decision is not taken. 491, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 492, Cabal. Don't insist. 493, Bondar. Don't insist. 495th, Bondar. Don't insist. 496th, Iron. Don't insist. The railroad insists. Please, yes, please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u178	You called for me to get involved in the process. Mr. Head, I'm still doing all the editing, you might as well not call it. And I'm going to say very briefly on the budget. See, a thousand and five hundred comments can be made to each budget. It's not an exception, I've probably got one of those. But as a person who has seen all the budgets since 2015, including this is the best budget. It's bad because we don't spend it on capital right now, although it would be desirable to do it, but during the war, it's the only budget I have the smallest number of observations to. So I take my papers off, and I support the committee's conclusions. It is desirable to cut the show to the end, but, God forbid, this is the greatest reference to the budget of the warring country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u179	Thank you. You don't insist on setting it up, do you? Don't insist. And you're filming everyone else. I'm not gonna call you or Kid anymore. Thank you. 497, I'm not calling you. Declined. 498, yours too, I'm not calling. 499th, Ephimov and his colleagues. Don't insist. 500th, Poturius with his colleagues. Don't insist. 501, Bondar. Don't insist. 503, Cabal. Don't insist. 504, Bondar. Don't insist. 505, Jephim and his colleagues. Don't insist. 506, Mokan Vasil Ivanovich. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u180	Colleagues, when the draft budget was prepared for the following year, were set up an unprecedentedly high sum for cinematographers -- 600 million dollars, three times the amount of money that was budgeted for this year. The essence of the amendment is that some of these funds are proposed to be transferred to finance an important area for our country, namely, support for our Ukrainian youth and the possibility of funding a state programme to finance the construction or reconstruction of housing. Because sociology shows that one of the problems most concerns for young people who want to live and work and make families is, in addition to the security situation, the absence of housing for them. And unfortunately, the state is not actually funding these programs right now. We're talking about the priority of government spending and, frankly, we're now directing such huge amounts to cinematographers is not appropriate. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u181	I'm sorry, are you insisting or insisting? You insist, don't you? 506 Mokana repairs. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:00:42]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 508th. Heratchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u182	Thank you. The head of the Supreme Council shall hold a meeting of the Supreme Council in compliance with the requirements of the Rules, rather than show a special sympathy for the opposition and its individual representatives, hold yourself in hand and be equal to all. And I ask you to put to the vote an amendment that takes up expenses in the State Court Administration, where the courts are taking place, not the courts. Now, in these moments, an officer of Roman Czervinsky is on trial, who has discovered this group of Wagnerians and is being avenged for it. He got sick in the courtroom and, you know, he's being held in custody just because he's an enemy of today's power. For these things, you have funds for these courts, and we're offering funds from the State Judicial Administration to transfer to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And by the way, I'm asking for comments from Chief and Mrs. Roxolana about why you don't like the Armed Forces of Ukraine so much, that even.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u183	508 amendments, by Heratchenko and colleagues, were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:02:16]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 510. That's what I understand. Fedina will be. Please, Sophia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u184	Society! The Supreme Council is offering him 422 million dollars. This is the administration that persecuted General Marchenko, General Pavlovsky, Saxon Pogrebski, Andrew Antonenko, Julius Kuzmenko, me and Marusz Zviroby. This is the administration that held Roman Czervinsky for more than 20 hours yesterday without food, no water, no lawyers during court proceedings, no access to doctors. This is the judicial administration that caused Roman Czervinsky to lose his arms and legs today, and they can't even provide him with normal medical care. That conscience should have such judicial administrations during the war, adding 422 million dollars. Colleagues, please turn your brains on and hand over this 422 million to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and stop persecuting our defenders.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u185	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u186	The suggestion to include brains is very clear. No one is being prosecuted by the State Judicial Administration; it has nothing to do with the judiciary at all. All the courts in the 7th chapter of the budget. Look over there, be a babe.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u187	The 510 amendment is the authorship of Fedina and her colleagues, she was rejected by the committee. They insist on counting. I'll bet you 510 adjustments. Please. [[13:04:15]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Next 512, Bondar. Don't insist. 513th, Iron. I got it. 514th, Iron. I got it. 515th. I took the Ironman. Same 516, 517, 518 repairs. 519th, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, this is a very important amendment. The thing is, in this budget, people's servants add millions and tens and hundreds of millions to the Attorney-General's Office. I would like to remind them that they already have a third of their 300 per cent Henprocuror, who is doing this perjury, when still on strictly ordered political, disgusting cases such as General Marchenko, General Pavlovsky, Marousia Zviroby, who are fighting to protect Ukraine, these courts are still in place, and that is why the Attorney General's Office receives generous funding from the budget. So we suggest that these funds be diverted immediately to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. By the way, everyone remembers how we viewed the 10038 bill here. And Mrs. Roxolana was declared an unbreakable heroine because she worked for eight hours. And we were told that you were blocking this law. So where's the President's signature? Contact the President immediately. He hasn't signed Law 10038 in ten days.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u189	Amendment 519 Heratchenko and colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:06:02]] For the 18th. I can't understand, you're asking me not to comment, you're asking me to comment. Who are you talking to right now? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, because I'm gonna ask, I can't understand. Please do not comment, then comment. 520th, Bondar. 520th, Bondar. Declined. Don't insist. 522nd, Iron. Don't insist. 523rd, Iron. Don't insist. 524th, Iron. Don't insist. 525th, Bondar. Don't insist. Five-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-teven-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-seven-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-s-six-six-six-six-s-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-s-s-s. Don't insist. 527th, Bondar. Don't insist. 528th, Bondar. Don't insist. 529th National Security Committee. Don't insist. 530th, Bondar. Don't insist. 531st, Iron. Don't insist. 532nd Iron. Don't insist. 533rd, Iron. Don't insist. 534th, Bondar. Don't insist. 535th, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, please listen once again to Roxolana and Ruslan Alexiyovich, and everyone in this room. This amendment is about increasing the cost of ensuring the performance of the tasks and functions of the DSS, our border guards, to increase these costs by 5 billion dollars. Dear colleagues, it's clearly on the right hand side of where the money came from. But I think that this amendment, despite the fact that there is not enough in the Chamber of Deputies, every well-known national MP who is here must be supported, because this money is being removed from articles that do not approach victory and are being transferred specifically to the activities of our border guards. Everyone in this room please support this amendment now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u191	Thank you. 535 Gerasimov repairs. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. Excuse me, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u192	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u193	535th, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u194	See, the national security and defence spending rates are set out in the relevant decision of the National Security and Defence Council, which was enacted by the President's decree. You're going to need an extra 5 billion dollars. And you don't have any justifications and explanations for lowering expenses by other principals, just like there are no corresponding calculations. Unfortunately, this is not a piece of legislation, so we cannot count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u195	Thank you. 535 revisions, Gerasimov. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:09:17]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Five-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Don't insist. 537th, Iron. Don't insist. 538th, Iron. Don't insist. 539th, Bondar. Don't insist. Well, I have to say all this, so no one will say that I didn't go back to these amendments. 540th, Iron. Don't insist. 541s, Iron. I made a statement. 542nd. Similarly. 543rd, Bondar. Don't insist. 544th, Bondar. Don't insist. 545th, Brainy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u196	Ruslan Alexiyovich, there's a bill for allocating an additional 100 million dollars for the State Border Service to implement a project for the purchase of unmanned aviation systems and state border monitoring. If this had been done by 24.02 maybe the state was better prepared for a full-scale invasion, maybe we wouldn't have had such massive losses in Irpen, Butchi, Izumi, Hostomela and other cities that were suddenly being invaded by the racists. So there's a proposition, it's a small cost, it's going to be allocated to the border guards so that we don't see this nonsense and unpreparedness in the state defense system anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u197	545, please correct. The position of the committee what?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u198	The government has decided that drones and anti - drone systems purchase and manage production in Ukraine by the State Special Liaison Service and then give them to all the defenses free of charge. We have set up an appropriate funding of 40 billion dollars for the State Service of Special Liaison, but unfortunately not for the national deputies. Please be quiet. Please be quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u199	Sofia Romanovna, please let's do some kind of culture in this room. There is, once again, a culture to listen to the answer to the question and then to shout. I say again, first of all, it's a mental correction and the answer goes to the correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u200	Can I have my time back?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u201	Please take your time. Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u202	Unfortunately, national deputies know very little about the work of our ministries and the work of the government and the purchase of drones. And in particular, they don't realize that to open up production, it takes money. In fact, 40 billion dollars to buy and manufacture drones to keep them on the front. And now we hear national MPs shouting in the session room, even though they refused to make that money yesterday and failed the 10037 bill. I feel that such deputies have no conscience or responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u203	Thank you. 545, yes, correction Reasonable and coworker. Do you insist, Dmitri Alexanderovich? I'll put this amendment to the vote. Please vote. [[13:12:55]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u204	546th, Shpak Love. Don't insist. Okay. 547th, Bondar. Don't insist. 548th Security Committee. Don't insist. 549 Ironborn. Don't insist. 550, Iron. Don't insist. 551, Iron. Don't insist. 552, Bondar. Don't insist. 553, Bondar. Don't insist. 554, Bondar. Don't insist. 555, Pencil. Don't insist. 556, Bondar. Don't insist. 557, Bondar. Don't insist. 558, Bondar. Don't insist. 559, Iron. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] You have a chart, Alexei Alexiyovich. 560, Iron. Don't insist. 561, Iron. Don't insist. 562, the committee doesn't insist. 563, Bondarenko. Don't insist. 564, Bondar. Don't insist. 565, Iron. Don't insist. 566, Iron. Don't insist. 567, Iron. Don't insist. 568, Bondar. Don't insist. 569, the committee doesn't insist. 570, Kisilevski, Nataluha. Don't insist. 571, Dmitri Alexandrovich Razumkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u205	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. But let's just take a few rights and put them together. 571s, 584s, 596s, 604s, 610s. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u206	Please. Let's do it again, 584ths, 596ths, 604ths and 610ths. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u207	No, it's not. 571s, 584s, 596s, 604s.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u208	And 610.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u209	610, yes, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u210	Please, Brainy 3 minutes from the start.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u211	Roxolano Andriyovno, you just mentioned some program that you drones are launching for the second year of the war, you're trying to say that something was not voted for yesterday. Two years, what did you do? I'm already silent on the fact that the gate has been open since 2014. That's the first question. Question number two. Who did you give it to? Next time, we'll take a trip, I'll invite you with us, we'll go through all the brigades, where we've been for this, and a period of time, me and my colleagues from Smart Politics. We're all asking, have you seen one drone from the drone army? Do you know the answer? No, it's not. No, it's not. You want me to write a video for you if you're not ready to go. No drone has been seen, no one has seen all the drones, all the "maviks" coming in, thanks to the volunteers, thanks to the public organizations, thanks, including your fellow MPs, who are bringing something there. But from the State Department, which is completely incomprehensible about what he's doing and why he's doing it, where they're authorized to do it, please show me. You're very easy now when you just want to take away the local authorities and shut down the holes that your government made and your majority who voted in favour of the 2023 budget. So in February, I'm sorry, in November 2022, you didn't know you were going to need drones? You didn't put money on them? Why did you take this budget when almost November 2023, a year later, you say, oh, and we don't have the money for it. You should be ashamed, you are responsible, unlike many. You know how it works, you know, you can't buy anything for this money this year. Because while you're doing your bidding, while you're dividing the money between yours, you're going to get the resources to carry out these tenders in December, at best. You don't buy anything, you put your hands up and say, oh, it didn't work out again. Now you can talk about 2024, but for some reason it tells me common sense and not a bad memory that in November 2024, you're standing there if you're able to, standing on this same platform, you're going to say the same thing. I realize you're very ungrateful today to stand up for everyone, but that's true. And you know that, if you don't believe it, you're going to check together, as head of the budget committee, you're going to be more professional about it, deeper and deeper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u212	Please, are we gonna put something out of this, Dmitri Alexanderovich? No, it's not. Okay. I'd just like to say for the record that I'm also visiting brigades, and I've seen drone drones from the Army. I can't advertise, unfortunately, where I've been. What? I can't tell you honestly, I'll tell you myself, Dmitri Alexanderovich, honestly. Irina Volodymyrna, I decide for myself what I can say, what I can't say in life. Really? Thank you. Yeah, 572. Don't insist. 573. Bacon. Don't insist. 574. Bondar. Don't insist. 575. The Cabal. Don't insist. 576. It's a Southern. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u213	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u214	Oh, sorry. I'm sorry. Please, Nina Petrovna, you're one or the other. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u215	One. Dear colleagues, we've been trying to figure out the working group on the committee. Because as early as June 11, 21st, Schmigal anointed the reform of government fees, and then in August 23rd, during the Cabinet of Ministers meeting, he decided to hurry to fulfill his promise in 24 years. I asked you a question, you still do. Well, would you, Mr. Dennis, be able to present the data today, how are you doing this reform? The reform should be carried out within the pay fund of the 21st year plus the inflation index, due to the reduction and alignment of wages that you're talking about very correctly, but you're not doing that. You're increasing heartlessly. And you're saying, now I, in my correction, this is the Ministry of Economics, you've explained this to balance the salaries of the workers who work there. But it's 208 million dollars. Do you really think that today is the time to make a level playing field?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u216	Will you put it to the vote? Put it in? Yes, please. Nina Petrovna Jujanina suggests that the number 576 should be taken into account. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:20:24]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 577. Bondar. Don't insist. 578. The Gethmans. Don't insist. 579. Bondar. Don't insist. 580. Kisilevski. Don't insist. 581, Committee. Don't insist. 582, Bondar. Don't insist. 583, Committee. Don't insist. 584, Reasonable. Don't insist. 585, Shpak. Don't insist. 586, Tymoshenko. Don't insist. 587, Bondar. Don't insist. 580, that's what she's counting.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u217	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u218	Do you want to take full account? Please, 588 revisions, Nina Petrovna Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, once again, coming out of the working group and that you told me there was an economy under the Unemployment Fund as part of the only social contribution, I'm still addressing the head of the profile committee. Mrs. Galino, do you really think that the EU, which is paid to everyone on the basis of the salary he receives, is to be paid in part to the Pension Fund, in part to the Unemployment Fund, so that the employee who gets laid off can receive the salary, the average salary over the year, these rules you changed during the war, and that they got people out of it, essentially quit. How do you want to store your pension? You have deceived people even in this respect. A freed person cannot get what the employer paid for it. And now let's put this money in our pockets, so this is starting with the first million, five programs. I'm calling the Voice Team. Where are you looking? What do you agree with? Tens of billions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u220	I'll bet you the total number 588 of the national deputy of Jujanina. It's part of the committee. Please vote. [[13:22:33]] For-23 The decision is not taken. The editing remains partially accounted for, as the committee took into account. 589, Tymoshenko. 590, Bondar. 591, Kisilevski. Don't insist. 592, Economic Development Committee. Don't insist. 593, Agrarian Policy Committee. Don't insist. 594, Bondar. Don't insist. Gettmans, 595. Don't insist. Reasonable, 596. Don't insist. Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich, please 597.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u221	Thank you. Colleagues, this is a huge redundancy, and we're proposing to add 630 million to the humanitarian exchange of agricultural land. We all know that our country now, hundreds of thousands of square miles, is being replaced. And the huge percentage of these lands is agricultural. We understand that this is an agricultural industry that is one of the pillars of our economy. And if these lands are replaced, of course they will not be used in the economy and will not be used to feed our people, the people of Ukraine, and not only the people of Ukraine, and Europe, and Africa, and all others. So these countries are huge in the structure of our economy. In order for them to work, they need to be replaced first. And this right over here is what we're adding up to 630 million for this activity. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u222	I'm betting on the vote number 597, National MP Mikishi. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:24:26]] For-26 The decision is not taken. 598. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, of course, it is easy to be in power when you are heard. It is very difficult when you resist and prove your point of view. Three billion dollars. My colleagues at Voice, you were just talking about everything in defense. So 3 billion dollars is for so-called "investment." Besides, what did the benefits do to them: for 10 years, they don't pay income taxes, they don't pay VAT, and they don't pay taxes when they import equipment, so in a war country, 3 billion people spend living money on three projects? Why aren't you ashamed? Please put these things away. When you talk about it with the military, well, they just don't know what to do with us or what they'll do when they come here after victory. Please take steps, give an assignment, or consider these questions at a government meeting. It's not right now to spend billions on things like that, where a total garbage can go.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u224	I'm betting on the vote number 598 of the People's Deputy of Jujanina and my colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:25:56]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next 599, Timoshenko. Don't insist. 600th, Bondar. Don't insist. 601, Irina Volodymyrna Heratshenko. Five minutes, please, and then there's a low right to be counted. Please, five minutes, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, I'm absolutely shocked that the head of the budget committee and the head of parliament are now telling such a lie that it's as if the Armed Forces of Ukraine are provided with drones and thermal visionaries. Mrs. Roxolana, my classmates and I go to the front every two weeks in different departments in Donetsk, Hersonian, Kharkiv, Coopian, and Parisian directions. We take you with us to make sure that, unfortunately, the hottest units are not provided by drones, thermal mirrors, and others. We were equally shocked by these bravado statements by the government manager, who said that 40 billion dollars was allocated to buy 190 thousand BPLAs. And do you really want to know where they are? Because the 110 brigade, which is a year and a half in the audio direction, is now gathering on these important drones and so on. And because we're proposing our amendments? It's from the warlord's budget to recover all the secondary expenses and redirect them to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And we'd like to, unfortunately, listen now, Mrs. Roxolana, your comment, because this is about very important things. And we see that Mrs. Roxolana is gone, and the Head of the Supreme Council, when it comes to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, they're gone, they don't want to answer those questions. But we want to hear the following comments, how can billions of dollars be left in the budget of a warring country on the Supreme Council of Ukraine? In particular, let's think about it. 170 million goes to the Council Channel, the head of the Council Channel gets a salary of 95,000 dollars a month. For what? For political censorship, because the Council is not on the air, there is no opposition, there is no presentation of the budget debate now, and Ukraine does not know how their spending is. That's why we're asking 170 million from the Council Channel to reroute it to drones. By the way, Mrs. Roxolana, Mr. Stefanchuk, you may know that these are about 650 good drones that are badly needed by the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Then, Amendment 1222, it refers to rerouting 1.5 billion dollars from a marathon that no one sees except the President's Office, because in this marathon, only the president's councillors and advisors, and 80 of them are counsellors and Patron's dog, there's no army, there's no heroes. But for this "g," excuse me, it's going to be 2 billion dollars, 2 billion dollars of taxpayers. And, more than that, they're paid on oligarchy channels. Imagine, "1+1" and still 25 percent of this channel belongs to Medvedchuku, and the other percent belong to Mr. Colomoysky. They're not arrested, these percentages and these shares are, on the contrary, financed by taxpayers. It's probably right to transfer 2 billion dollars to the Ukrainian Armed Forces right now. And then, baby, the structure that's bad business, this small and medium-sized business that's still moving in the country, that's creating jobs, paying taxes, paying wages to the people who work in it, coming to them every day with searches, with some exceptions and a little, you know, a little business pressure. That's why we're with the Committee on Budgets, the Minister of Finance, and you've all given the BEB increased funding. We're talking about our 1242 amendment to redirect the money from the Beba to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We need to unite not around the surnames, we need to unite not around the structures now, but around the only one — the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And I'm sorry to leave billions in the budget of a warring country for a marathon, billions in the "Rada" channel, which has turned into the most disgusting propaganda, into repressive organs, into a prosecutor's office, it's just a disgrace. There's a lot here now, you know, examples of Israel. So show me where in Israel the marathon, where there is only one marathon in Israel and someone on the oligarchy canals there is taking money out of the budget, perhaps let's correct your mistakes. Have you ever felt ashamed to look into the eyes of soldiers and officers? And most importantly, we have not heard from the head of the budgetary committee and the head of the Supreme Council, so why are Ukraine's laws not being enforced? In June, we voted to increase payments to injured people who actually get 600 dollars today. This law is still not being enforced by the government, it may be time to ask the government a question, maybe they pay themselves daily both the BEB and the prosecutor’s office, and the wounded, the instructors.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u226	Irina Volodymyrna, you all want to take five into account, don't you? Yeah, I checked, there's only 1122 you wrote, not yours, but 1222 yours, it's a technical mistake, we can count it, not count it, but this mistake. Okay. Then I place the following amendments on the vote in turn. 601 National Deputies' rights as Heratchenko and colleagues were rejected by the Committee. Please vote. 601. [[13:32:08]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1140. Five rights now. 1140, national deputy Heratchenko and colleagues, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:32:35]] For-26 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1156. 1156, Heratchenko and colleagues, rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:32:59]] For-28 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1222. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. Heratchenko and colleagues. [[13:33:23]] For-29 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And 1242. The committee's dismissed. People's deputy Heratchenko and colleagues. Please vote. [[13:33:50]] For-27 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1242. For the record, it was the baby, not the marathon. The marathon is 1222. You see, I've got your work cut out for me already, Irina Volodymyrically. [[B in m in s a l in]] But I didn't mind if you paid attention. I got held up. This is this position, this is democracy. Let's move on. 602nd. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, this is nearly a billion and a half dollars for a stockholder's company called the Ukrainian Financial Housing Company. The task force explained that it was more than a technical operation. But still, Mr. Ulutin, you were talking about what you're going to do to this company, being led by a man named Metzger Eugene Volodymyrovich, who burned himself in his homogenous attitude and inefficiency as a manager, and now you're saying that during the war you want to re-establish this company. It seems to me that, well, it's a shame that they don't hear all the national MPs and they can't make decisions on such responsible days when the budget is actually being made for the next year. I'm asking you to take care of this. And if possible, count, or if it's just a race, yes. But using funds like that, I'm definitely against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u228	It's okay. It's You don't have to. Okay. 604, Dmitri Alexanderovich. We've already done it. 605, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u229	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to request the attention of every deputy present in this room. This amendment increases the expenditure of 2 billion dollars on humanitarian exchange in Ukraine. And for Mrs. Roxolana, where we take this money off, because in every correction I make, it's definitely indicated, so you don't have to say things in the rostrum that don't fit in. We're taking it off the lines: conducting prosecutorial activities; preparing and increasing the qualifications of prosecutors; ensuring the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation; producing and broadcasting television programmes; collecting, processing and distributing official information products; and financially supporting the state's innovation system. Roughly speaking, we take it off the semi-corruption articles, we put it on humanitarian exchange. Please support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u230	Amendment No. 605 of the People's Deputy Gerasimov. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:36:55]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Mikisha, please, Dmitri Sergiyovich, 606 correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u231	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. It's also about humanitarian exchange. I would like to pay attention to the problems that exist in this field. First of all, it's just a crazy number of square miles, it's hundreds of thousands of square miles that need to be swapped, and for that we don't have a lot of companies and Westerns and natives that can do that. And the certification and licensing departments, unfortunately, are a little bit slowing down, let's say, slow down and don't issue the right ones. But the main problem is that it's the departments that take these jobs. In fact, they're only up to 20 people in all of Ukraine. We realize that under such conditions, these hundreds of thousands of miles will not be accepted at all as being interchangeable. Therefore, it is intended to allocate additional funds for the humanitarian exchange of agricultural land, including appropriate work. So, colleagues, I'm asking you, it's overwhelming, I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u232	I'm betting on the vote number 606, People's Deputy Mikishi. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:38:26]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 608. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, I stress once again, it's not fair to people, it's not stately. And now our state looks like a country where you can never get your credits. What are you talking about? These are the five programs that you have decided to run at the expense of 10 billion people taken for granted. They could have benefited from losing their job by earning an average wage. This would be a specific help for people. Yeah, no. Now let's do a new program called domestic demand support for domestic goods. They ask me, do you not support the demand for domestic goods? So as an economist, I ask you a question. What is behind the demand for domestic goods? Human capacity. Give back as provided for all the years under the Budget Code. And don't give up on these voices that are completely indifferent people in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u234	Will you bet? Okay. 609, Tymoshenko. Don't insist. 610, Brainy. I already have. 611. Please, Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u235	Thank you. The correct remedy is intended to help our domestic enterprise, primarily the agricultural assignment. I'm just going to read what numbers, 2.9 billion what we're dividing by. 2 billion for humanitarian land exchange. 630 million grants for business creation or development. It's overwhelming. 200 million for insurance, insurance and export guarantees through the Export Credit Agency. We understand the risks and what our agrarians first face. And 100,000 are left to stimulate domestic demand. So we understand that it's 2.9 billion, it's primarily about developing our entrepreneurship, support and security, and providing guarantees from the state to develop the right direction. So, colleagues, it's overwhelming, because the economy is the main support of our army.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u236	Put it in? 611 people's MP Mikishi. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:41:20]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 612, Bondar. Don't insist. 613, Bondar. Don't insist. 614, Timoshenko. Don't insist. 615 Ironborn. Don't insist. 616, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, I read the agrarian telegram periodically. And I was interested in all the programs of the Ministry of Economics that provide for the support of our Ukrainian business. I was impressed. If you think we've already chosen vectors as the economy develops in the post-war period, you're wrong, we're doing everything the way it was. Ah, agrarians, let's give it all to the agrarians. So, just so you know, an enterprise support fund of 18 billion, 18 billion, more than half -- that's just support for agriculture. What agrarian? I've asked the Ministry of Economics for information now. Are these small, perhaps farmers? No, they're big businesses, big companies. You're on a rake and you're not thinking about what a military budget really needs to be done. Don't do that, let's win, and then six months from now, we'll win.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u238	Will you bet? Okay. 617 Ironborn. 618 Ironborn. 619, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 620, Bacon. Don't insist. 621, Bondar. 622, the Gethmans. 623, Bondar. 624, Cabal. 625, the Gethmans. 626, Bondar. Bondar, Bondar. 629 Zavninovich. Don't insist. 630, Magera. Don't insist. 631, Bondar. 632, Bondar. 633, Shpak. 634, Iron. 635, Iron. 636, Iron. 637, Bondar. 638. 639. Dmitri Alexanderovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u239	Alexander Sergiyovich, 639, 648, 673, 682, 775, 888, 910th, 919th, 933rd and 993rd is ten rights, give me 7 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u240	Let's do it again, please, because I didn't catch up with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u241	639th, 648th, 673, 682nd, 775th, 888th, 910th, 919th, 933rd and 993rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u242	Okay, eight minutes, first of all, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u243	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm not even going to put these adjustments into account, because there are now about 30, maybe 40 colleagues in the room, and that doesn't make any sense, today a lot of talk, including my colleagues in "Smart Politics," just as Mr. Mikisha and others spoke about it. That the issues that really need to be in this budget should be a priority for the Security and Defence Force. But really, the issue of the security and defence forces and their security, not the provision of corrupt schemes, which unfortunately have flourished for the second year after a full-scale invasion by the Russian Federation into Ukraine. For someone, it's a war, you know, as a saying, for someone, a war, and for someone, a family, and someone's making a lot of money. Not only in the state, not just in Kiev, but it's scary that our foreign partners are talking about it, and the worst thing they're talking about on the front. Our defenders are talking to you, they understand very well what's going on, they understand where the money is going instead of where they're going to go: to provide for the Ukrainian army, to secure payments, to provide a combat kit, to buy weapons, which is not enough today, and someone is allowing himself to charge pockets in summer, not winter jackets, for example. The second, important question that was also reflected in our revisions and not taken into account, I don't understand why, it's the support of the Ukrainian business. I'm not saying that in parallel with the budget you're considering laws that are destroying it. This is, for example, 8401, which was accepted, and now I have an answer in my hands from the President's Office, Mr. Jermak, from the Ministry of Finance, which, in fact, you, fellow members of the people's parliament, are accusing you of adopting the wrong bill for the IMF, 8401. Such an answer that the President's Office says we didn't take part in this at all, and Minfin says, well, we voted people's deputies. It's terrible that a lot of those who voted for it didn't read the law at all, and they just believed the word that it was enough for the IMF. They pressed green when my colleagues and I said we couldn't do that. Rocksolana Andriyevna, this is going to be fun, but then it's really not going to be fun when you can't provide the budget. And last time we took 10038 personally, we took responsibility as the head of the committee, and that's enough money, I'd like to remind you of that. So back to business. Now you have, in parallel with the budget under Law 10016, which creates a huge gap of opportunity for corrupt officials, nightmares, sorry for slang, business, and you're telling everyone that we're, like, 93 or 97 percent just closing the army's needs with our own budget revenues. If we keep this up with Ukrainian business, we're going to close 70, then 60, and then we're not going to close anything at all, because there's not going to be any business. There will be no jobs, there will be no taxes, there will be no income, there will be no military salaries, there will be no shells and there will be no victory. This shameful and ineffective approach. You've also probably forgotten, because that's not enough, in the budget that's being budgeted, about those people who are being forced into our country's territory, they've fled the war and stayed where their fate is, and that's also the responsibility of the state. Because, by preparing or not preparing for 24.02, the state did nothing to prepare a base for such people, to provide them with housing, possible housing, if the authorities really knew that it was going to be bad on the 24th, to provide them with jobs, to secure the location of the enterprises where they would work, to allow them to return to the state of the countries to which they had left at the beginning of the war. We don't have to go out with ministers, VPs and say you don't go back to the state, we don't have to, we still have to feed you. What do you mean you don't have to? We don't have any light, you better stay in Poland, live there, pay taxes there, build their economy. Norway has the opportunity for our fellow citizens to engage them, to pay for resources and to provide jobs and housing, and Ukraine does not want to do that, because it's much easier for the minister to go out and say, you don't come back, it's gonna be very cold, it's gonna be dark, and that's it. Then go after the men who went abroad on the evidence, the help they were given at the TCC. I would like to remind you that TCC is also part of the authority that you are directly responsible for. Then they go out and say, you know, you, when you come back, we're going to put you away for 12 years or you're going to pay 13 million. Well, it's some strange state policy, all nations make people go back to their country. I'm sorry, Rostislav Mikolaiovich, you don't see the whole reporter. Thank you. All nations make it possible for their citizens to return and help restore the economy and protect the state. For example, you have Israel, how many people returned there when they were called upon to defend the state. No one told them you left, so when you come back, you'll have to pay 13 million shekels and we'll put you away for 12 years. You're sitting there because when the missiles fly, there might not be any light. Do you understand? This is the difference in approaches, the absence of a state strategy. And the absence of, you know, half the result is the correct goal. Unfortunately, this 2024 State Budget bill does sound good, but it does not specify how to achieve it. You set up shows here too, I know it's your team, but, well, you have a conscience. You're people, you're living in this same country, you're communicating with these same defenders, you're flying a rocket in winter, well, you're sitting right here, you're not having the light, you're not having the light, you're not having the people of everyone else. We're not just living on cave hills, are we? We all have to live with one problem -- the problem of how to bring our victory closer together. And looking at some of the colleagues in this room, they seem to have a completely different problem, not the nearness of our victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u244	Let's move on. Yeah? Yeah, 640, Shpak. Don't insist. 641, the committee. Don't insist. 642, the committee. Don't insist. 643, the committee. Don't insist. 644, committee. Don't insist. 645, Bondar. Don't insist. 646, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 647, Magera. Don't insist. 648, Reasonable. 649, Shpak. Don't insist. 650, Ephimov. Don't insist. 651, Mokan Vasil Ivanovich. Please. Don't insist. 652, Iron. 653, Iron. 654, Iron. 655, the committee. 656, the Gethmans. 657, Bondar. 658 Jephim. 659, the committee. 660, Bondar. 661, Bondar. 662, Bacon. 663. Irina Volodymyr. Oh, that's Irina Fries. Okay. Please, Friz Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u245	Thank you very much. During the report, the minister of finance stressed that this would be a very difficult budget for our state, and the situation would be far from looking at it as, you know, such a hepiendian one. This amendment, 663, speaks of the need to increase the funding of the Ministry of Defence, including channelling 16 billion out of the 210000 program, increasing the funding of the Ministry of Defence. I would like to point out that the decision of the Committee on Security and Intelligence has sent a letter to the Committee on Budgets on the need to increase the financing of the security and defence sector eight times. Think about it: The security and defence sectors will need eight times more than they have been allocated. So, really, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u246	Put them on, Mrs. Irina, Irina Vasilovna? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then I put to the vote the number 663 national deputies Heratchenko, Friz, and colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:55.]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. 664. Honcherenko Alexiyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u247	Yes, my friends, I continue to tell you about the budget for injustice. And it's also a very important figure: a child is 860 dollars a month. Guys, 860 bucks a month for a kid. In comparison.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u248	Alexyyyovich, that's not how he gets into the camera. A little closer to you, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u249	Is that how it works? Excellent, thank you, Mr. Alexander. 860 bucks a month. I'm paying attention, the cameras and all the other numbers here, they're all important. So on the wedding cake, on the wedding cake of our prosecutor and debutante, you can do this, you have to raise money for ten years. 100,000 dollars is ten years to raise money for a child, or three babies to be born in order to be able to collect cake in at least three years. This reality is 860 dollars per child. Friends, it's an injustice budget, and it's not a war budget, it's some other priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u250	This is number 664, rejected by the committee. Let us not put, well, a more important explanation here. 665, rejected by the committee. 666, Iron. Overruled. 667. Overruled. 668, Iron. Don't insist. 669, Cradenko. Don't insist. 670, Bondar. Don't insist. 671, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 672, Magera. Don't insist. 673. We're done. Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich. 674, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u251	Thank you. My colleagues, I talk to the military every day, they call me, especially in the last days, and they tell me that even now they're continuing to limit them to their wages, namely, in DHV, an extra reward. They pay less and less in each unit each month. For some people in general, let's say, they cancel these DHVs, and they get an absolutely naked bet. These are the units that are fighting, who are directly involved in the secession. And the storm troops, and the territorial defenses, which are right in the back, are defending our nation on the collision line. And it's in these units that all of these units cancel out the extra cash reward, and they predict that that's what this is. We realize that next year, the budget we're looking at right now is going to be even worse. Therefore, we are proposing to increase the cost of salaries for all military personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u252	I'm betting on the vote number 674 of the Mikishi People's Deputies. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:58:11]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 675th, Irina Vasilovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u253	Thank you very much. In fact, this amendment is once again aimed at increasing the financing of our Ukrainian Armed Forces. In particular, this bill suggests 120 million directing our military personnel training program. I think that if we don't go to the budget of the war today, which is supposed to be the budget of 2024, we can end up with a budget of defeat, because all the articles of expenditure that aren't targeted or reinforcing our security and defence sector are actually going to lead us to defeat today. We need to reorient our expenses and increase our security and defence sector funding eight times, as they require. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u254	I'm betting on the vote number 675 of the national deputies, Heratchenko, Friz, colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:59:36]] For-19 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Please, Ruslan Alexiyovich. Next, 676th, 677th, 78th, Iron, Cabal. Declined. They don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u255	679th. 679th, Iron. Don't insist. 680s, Bondar. Don't insist. 681st, Yatzik. Don't insist. 683, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 684th, Magera. Don't insist. 685th. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u256	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. It's 685th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u257	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u258	I could say here, colleagues, I'm asking you to allocate extra money, which is to increase the cost of the program with code 2101150. Remember this program and listen carefully to me. It's "Development, purchase, upgrade and repair of weapons, military technology, equipment and equipment." We take the money traditionally: the prosecutor's office, the D.B.I., the teletraphony, and further development costs, for example, various institutions called "nothing." So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support this right now, because it's about taking the money away, let's be honest with you, from the semi-corruption articles, and toss it into weapons. Everyone in this room please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u259	Thank you. 685 Herasimov's amendment, it's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:01:37]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov instead of all the amendments, 10 minutes of the performance. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u260	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. We talked a lot. I don't see, unfortunately, the desire for MPs to fit the bill. I realize that tomorrow they will again be talking about holding five, six, seven hours of deputies there, forcing them to work in the hall, to vote for something. But I don't see the potential to make this bill better. I understand that once again, the majority and other deputies will tell you what you have to vote for, because we have to provide the army. One hundred percent, the army has to be provided. We need to secure the GUR. We even have to provide an RAF, because they're doing a good job in some directions. We need to secure the border guards, we need to secure the police. But I don't understand why we have to provide the Kabmina Secretariat, which has so prepared this bill, has passed. Why don't we see in the presentation of the budget today when we discuss important rights (this is, colleagues, first of all to you, representatives of the majority) in the Prime Minister's Hall? Does he care about the budget? He doesn't care, will he have the money to secure the army and bring the victory closer? Does he have any more important questions? This is one of the key laws and key issues on which the state will live next year. We have to give the proper Minfin, there are their representatives. Unfortunately, though, there are no ones to whom it should be important — the Prime Minister. I don't understand why there's no minister of defense. Here are his key questions, here are his key aspects, which will have to be introduced in the budget for the 24th year. They're gone. There's no 70, 80, 90 percent mono. Now, we're saying that we're not bad right now, and it's hard to call it spam when we're proposing to take the money out of separate directions and send it to the army as we suggested in 10038, plus 11 billion. Is that bad? No, it's not. As long as they haven't been on the frontlines, as long as they haven't been talking to our colleagues, they all support it. When you and I canceled the duty, the return of dutyless car imports to the country, I'd like to remind everyone that we promised the military that we would help them. But it's not like that again. There are two bills from our team, the "Smart Politics" teams that allow for the seamless import of cars for our defenders and to provide them and their families with the possibility of using them, because they really need to be able to use such cars, because it's a problem for them, because there are people who get hurt, there are people who can't drive these cars themselves. And in this respect, our law is entirely consistent with what the defenders are asking for. I, Ruslan Alexiyovich, am addressing you as Head of the Supreme Council, and I understand that it is shaping the agenda of the Conciliation Council, but I ask in this regard your support and support for the first deputy, Alexander Sergiyovich. These are important laws. They're not about politics. Do you want to call it off, introduce a common law? But we have to provide the army with extra benefits, especially that we promised. You, when you canceled the duty-free import of cars, you promised. But we didn't, you didn't, you wouldn't let it into the hall. The second important question that our defenders raise on each trip to the front is that by the end of the 24th. Just think about it. By February 24, 22, while we had the ATO and then the OOS, we had a month in three. Do you know what the situation is today? They count each other. Tell me, please, what do you think about when it's harder for them to fight today or 24? Everyone understands that, do you know about this problem? I hope so. The same is true of our bill, which helps to solve this problem. No one's letting him into the hall. Why? Because it's registered by Smarty-Politics and Smarty-Politics? Okay. Let's register from anyone -- we don't have a hat, we have to go. Let's vote. No, it's not. Like many other questions. You're telling me there's a lot off time. Criticizing corruption is not the time. To speak with the truth is not in time. To speak black, black, white, not in time. We've got to have it all pink. Everything has to be very, very praiseworthy. You're calling for less politics. And all you talk about is the elections starting last September, then the spring, then now, now the next spring is gone. So, what are you talking about, the state, or politics? And tell the people honestly that they will understand what they are talking about. You're saying the Supreme Council didn't give anything when it didn't vote in favour of Bill 10037. And you set these rules, and then you started changing them. You don't talk about how you're going to provide cities that are living today solely on the basis of these subsidies. Excuse me, military PDF. How they live, and only because of what they can provide for themselves in this way. How they're helping the army, how they're setting up PDAs, how they're buying by means of drones, cars, armors, fairy tales. How they have helped the military since the first day of the war, often abandoned by profile structures and fled to Western Ukraine. Well, it's true, and you know it, and we know it. Most of all, people know that well. They are, yes, very often silent. But sooner or later, this patient will break free. And it will require responsibility, political responsibility, physical responsibility, moral responsibility of a variety of types. Well, let's take some responsibility for what we do. Just as our defenders are responsible for defending our nation and bringing our victory closer to you. Well, it's not like there's a 410-person unit, 410-person warehouse, and there's still, well, there's, like, 30-40. You should just be ashamed of yourself in front of the defenders, frankly. What's more, we can't even vote right now. We can't. Don't be afraid, Rocsolana Andriyevna, it's too early. It's not funny, colleagues. When there are 30 people left in the hall, I don't understand. Then you push. Like yesterday, you push for the PEP, and then in your own chat room and in your Facebook, you start writing how bad it is, putting ashes on your head. How's that? I understand that it's very convenient for you to place yourself in power so that no one else will come there, that there will be no one else there, just you, because you're already a consumer of PEP and no one else needs to be dragged there. But, no, there are people more competent than you, more intelligent, more efficient, more experienced. That's not always the way it is in life, it's not because you're bad or good. This is always the case: you will be replaced, I hope, by better, smarter, more efficient, and more people who will take care of their duties, to what the state has sent them to work here, sent people to work for which they are paid. I realize that not everyone lives on it, but they get it from the budget. So let's take the budget to help the people, not the Office of the President, the deputies and the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u261	Dmitri Alexanderovich, you've made all your adjustments. Thank you. Next 686, Eugene. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u262	When we talked to you about an increase in income by 15 billion per rent on gas production, it's 686 that the amendment directs all of these costs, 15 billion 45 million, under budget programme 2101150 "Development, purchase, modernization and repair of weapons, military technology, equipment and equipment." I hope that the task given to the government will still not be formal, we will deal with it, and then we will direct the funds to our Armed Forces. Please do not put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u263	Thank you. 687th, Eugene. Please. Are you insisting? 687, Nina Petrovna! You don't insist, do you? 688th, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 689th, Iron. Don't insist. 690, Iron. Don't insist. 691s, Iron. Don't insist. 692nd, Cabal. Don't insist. 693, Tsabal. Don't insist. 694th, Cabal. Don't insist. 695th, Friz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u264	Thank you, Mr. Head. I think I'm going to go to the audience right now because I hope that the video of this session will still be seen by Ukraine and will be able to evaluate Parliament's activities. "European solidarity" requires, requires and emphasises the need to increase the financing of the security and defence sector eight times. We all have to tighten our belts, we have to wipe out all the expense articles that are focused, and we don't understand why in this amount, during the war. We're proposing this right from the State Support for Cinematography program to target 528 million under Development, Purchase, Modernization and Repair of Weapons and Military Technology. It's more important now than, with all due respect, the film program.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u265	You insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u266	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u267	No, it's not. Thank you. 696th, Friz. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u268	Thank you, Mr. Head. A new regulation aimed at increasing budget funding under the Development, Purchase, Modernization and Repair of Weapons and Military Technology programme. This is what the Armed Forces of Ukraine need today, which is what the National Guard needs today, including the State Border Service. I stress that "European Solidarity" calls for a majority, shake hands and channel the necessary funding to the security and defence sectors. There is a decision by the Committee on Safety of Rights to increase this funding eight times, not what was set up when the budget was formed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u269	You don't insist, do you? Thank you. Let's move on. 697th, Dubnov. Don't insist. 698th, Bondar. Don't insist. 699th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 700th, Bondar. Don't insist. 701th National Security Committee. Don't insist. 702th, Cabal. Don't insist. 703, Ironman. Don't insist. 704, Ironborn. Don't insist. 705, Ironman. Don't insist. 706, Ruddick. Don't insist. 707th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 708, Cousbit. It's partially accounted for, I'm sorry. 709, Cousbitt and colleagues. Don't insist. 710th, Mama. Don't insist. 711, Bacon. Don't insist. 712, Timoshenko with colleagues. We've already said it. 713, the same. 714, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 715, Labazuk. Don't insist. 717th Committee on Education, Science and Innovation. Don't insist. 718th, Krulko. Don't insist. 720th, Iron. Don't insist. 721st, Iron. Don't insist. 722nd Ironman. Don't insist. 723rd Committee on Education, Science and Innovation. Don't insist. 725th, Krulko. Don't insist. 729th. It's an education committee. Don't insist. 730, Krulko. Don't insist. 731st, Timoshenko with colleagues. They've already said it. 732th, Cabal. Don't insist. 733rd, Eugene. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u270	If possible, 733, next: 1018, 1029, 1111, and 1112, five amendments three minutes and no confirmation, counting.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u271	Please give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u272	Dear colleagues, I just don't know how to address you, Mrs. Roxolano, to you, Mr. Dennis, but when you say we don't have development costs in this budget, you're lying. In fact, when billions go through this and we don't know how effective and necessary these programs are for the Armed Forces, but we're protesting, it's legal. Look, the first program is half a billion. It would seem that a very good goal is the Foundation for the Development of Vocational Higher Education and Higher Education. I'm dealing with the committee members, and here's the renovations, and here's the asphalt tracks, and all the majors need, and they're definitely going to vote for these amendments. Next, this is already interesting, the implementation of land reform – budget programme 2803020. I've been asking myself for a long time, and what else do you need, where else do you have to spend 81 million dollars? And here it turns out, the government issued Decree 1078 of October 13, this year, which envisions the implementation of a pilot project on mass land assessment within 11 months of the following year. Aren't you shocked by that? What kind of pilot project, the lands are completely replaced, we don't even have the imagination when we exchange them. And this is true of Eastern and Southern regions, too. Why are we being so unreasonable? So, of course, when I go through all of these expenses, the largest amount of billions of dollars, I think it's, well, you're just not doing your function. It's a disgrace! It makes me uncomfortable to sit in this Parliament and even be present to consider such a disgrace. I don't understand. Please take a look at this, I'm just asking you, you're working with us, too, because now that we're talking about what. And I missed 687 revisions, and I took turns, very hard on each of the supervisors, picking up a non-standard cost or an excess expense to bring to your knowledge of where the economy is. Unfortunately, if anyone doesn't understand, you don't want to hear, well, you're two people: the head of the committee, the deputy minister of finance, you hear me, you make us sit for hours and deal with these expenses without giving us complete information and not responding to our calls. So I ask you to look at these expenses and officially submit to European Solidarity an explanation of where development costs will be channelled into such huge sums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u273	Thank you. 734, Tymoshenko with colleagues. They've already said it. 735, Education Committee. Don't insist. 736. Counted. 737, Kulko. Don't insist. 738, Committee on Education, Science and Innovation Don't insist. 740, Grishina. Don't insist. 742, Education Committee. Don't insist. 744, Sin. Don't insist. 745, Cabal. Don't insist. 746, Cabal. Don't insist. 747, Bondar. Don't insist. 748, Mikisha. Don't insist. You insist, don't you? Please, Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u274	Thank you. Colleagues, we're all talking about drones being essential to our army -- I agree. We're all talking about what's missing, what's needed is to buy them -- I agree twice. And even better, when there is the production of our drones, three times my support. But most of all, to make your own and then to put yours on the front, you have to make your own designs first. So the law is that the National Research Fund, which supports scientific research, scientific and technical experimental development, by providing grants, can function on its own. They actually exist as a self-organism, they have everything and accounting, everything, everything on their own, and that money is somehow going through the Ministry of Education. We understand that if you do not have the money directly, you too are dependent. So let's just, technically correct it, just draw a separate line so that the National Research Fund has its money and works effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u275	Dear colleagues! Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u276	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u277	748 Mikishi's amendment. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[2:21:55]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 749, Schuljak. Don't insist. 750, Bondar. Don't insist. 751, Bondar. Don't insist. 753, Tymoshenko and her colleagues. It's been said. 754, Bondar. Don't insist. 755, Iron. Don't insist. 756, Iron. Don't insist. 757, Iron. Don't insist. 758, Iron. Don't insist. 759, Iron. Don't insist. Same 760 amendment, 761, 762, 763rd. 764th, Bondar. Don't insist. 765th Ironman. Don't insist. The same author with a colleague of 766. Don't insist. 767, Ironman. Don't insist. 768, Bondar. Don't insist. 769th, Bondar. Don't insist. 770th, Cabal. Don't insist. 771, Cabal. Don't insist. 772, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 773, Mama. Don't insist. 774, Bondar. Don't insist. 776th, Shpak. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is Shpak insisting? Excuse me, please. Now you turn on the microphone, I can't hear you. Tell me. Three minutes instead of all your changes?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u278	Three minutes, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u279	Please, Shpak, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u280	I want to keep the MPs out of the budget, because this is the budget that the country will live on for a year. Because comparisons with cakes are something else. Let's talk about constructive always. That's the minimum wage. How does it have to be calculated, right? Because the subsistence minimum for today, 2,920 dollars, was 8,000 dollars. Why so? And because every year I'm making proposals, and we're looking more at the real situation as to the minimum of living. But this gap has been growing every year. And today we have a breakup, so listen, 2,920 dollars and 8,000 dollars. Why? Because there is: first, the subsistence minimum is guaranteed by the Constitution of our country, and also the subsistence minimum is regulated by legislation. Legislation is calculated, we know, of course, funny indicators: one coat there for 7 years, one kilo of biscuit for a family of three and so on, but even these figures, the minimum of living is calculated by the Ministry of Social Policy. If you look at the Social Security Ministry's website, which is a minimum of living in February 2024, which is what it's supposed to be, it was 7554. So the proposed figure of 8,000 dollars corresponds to the reality. So we understand that the longer we go on, the more we break up. And in this analysis, we understand how to survive our pensioners right now. We know how much we had, what inflation was, how much prices went up, what utility bills. They're simply not able to buy their own medicine. You realize that it is impossible to survive for this kind of money. Who doesn't have any outside help for today, I don't know, die for them or what? I mean, but still, I want to say that comparing pensions, social benefits to cakes or something -- it's not very good somehow. Let's always talk about the construct, talk about the real numbers that they exist. And I think that's what Parliament's task for today is to defend the interests of our citizens and, above all, the socially vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u281	Thank you. Let's move on. Next amendment 777, Mama. Don't insist. 778th, Bacon. Don't insist. 779th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 780s, Aresonkov. Don't insist. 781st. Lushenko. Don't insist. 782, Ruddick. Don't insist. 783, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 784th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 785th, Bondar. Don't insist. 786, Gnutenko. Don't insist. 787, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 788th, Bondar. Don't insist. 790s, Bondar. Don't insist. What? But it's partially accounted for. So what do you want? Oh, you want a full count? Okay. Please, Mikisha, please. 789th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u282	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Edit included partially. Let me tell you what's here. In fact, we have more than a year and a half of our invasion, and war has taken the utmost care of itself. But there is, before that there was a COVID that took the utmost care of itself. But in our country, there's a problem that's so national -- it's cancer. And that's what this is about, because we're also trying to allocate 337 million. The editing is partially accounted for, so we give the government itself to look for this money in the future. But we suggest 100 percent of this money bet because we understand that cancer is a plague of our time. And if we don't pay enough attention. and the financial resource is primarily the focus that should be given to this problem. So it's going to grow and spread. Please support me, colleagues, because the cancer institute is primarily in need of these costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u283	789 revisions. It's partially accounted for. At the same time, one of the coauthors requires full consideration. I'm betting on the co-author's proposal for a vote. Please vote. [[14:28:05]] For-26 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains partially taken into account in the wording as defined by the committee. Next amendment 792, Dmitriev. Don't insist. 793, Dmitrieva. Don't insist. 794, Cabal. Don't insist. 795, Bondar. Don't insist. 796, Bondar. Don't insist. 797, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 799th, Dmitrieva. Don't insist. 800th, Purtova. Don't insist. 803, Ironman. Don't insist. 804, Ironman. Don't insist. 805, Ironman. Don't insist. 806th, Cabal. Don't insist. 807th Affairs Committee. We've broken up. 807th, Committee of Public Authority Organizations. Don't insist. 808, Timoshenko with colleagues. I've made my point. 810, Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 812, Bujansky. Don't insist. 813th, Krulko. Don't insist. 814th, Goncharenko. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u284	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have some adjustments left, and now I'm going to count them, nine of them. I'm asking you to give me your word for six minutes and that's it. Edit read numbers?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u285	No, no, I do. So let me make it clear: 814th, 1412th, 1483th, 1504th, 1527th, 1556th, 1572th, 1582th, 1594th. Is that right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u286	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u287	Please. Yes, please give me six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u288	Six minutes, please. Thank you. Dear friends, we have an empty Hall of the Supreme Council, there's no point in proving anyone there, no one's going to vote for the amendments. And I want to talk to Ukrainian citizens right now, because it's very important that this is all done for citizens, at the expense of Ukrainian taxpayers that this budget is being formed. And I'm pointing out to you that unfortunately, the Supreme Council has lost its decision-making function, is just voting for what they're doing and, in fact, they have a similar attitude to the people's deputies to their work, so right now they're all gone. Why don't you tell me if the teacher left his job? Some of the colleagues stayed, it's not about who they are, it's about who these conscientious national deputies are, it's about 40, it's not about 50, it's not about the others. So tell me, if the teacher had left his job, what would have happened? Perhaps such a teacher would have been expelled from his job. This is when a teacher receives 35,000 dollars in wages in the case of a less popular MP. If the doctor would just leave his job, just come and go, what would that be? Perhaps they would have expelled such a doctor from their work, but they would have been far away. Imagine if a car driver hadn't come to the Crucifixion, the train hadn't gone, everything would have been thrown out. Today, a car driver receives several times, an extremely difficult, difficult job, a few times less than a national MP, and the national MPs do not come, no time, no time. For a child, 860 dollars, a pension is 2,2500, which many get, which is impossible to live on. Nurse's salary is very often 4-5,000 bracelets, the salary of a teacher in a kindergarten of 4-5,000 bracelets. The emergency medical assistance that travels on board, everything that saves people, brings out the wounded, nothing and so on, and so on and so forth. We have things that are completely insane, that are injured, that have given up their health for the Fatherland, that have led them out of the state, or that people have been sick when they were serving, taken out of the state and paid 500, 700 dollars, not let go of the service, not paid, just bullied people. Is it called a budget? Friends, well, isn't that what it's called a budget? Is it called a fair estimate, a fair redistribution of some of the funds in the state? Well, what's justice here? Where is she? Well, she's not, in principle, close. It's a disaster, not a budget, what we're offered today. I realize that it's difficult, that the economy is damaged, that external borrowing is getting harder and harder. But then there are other questions: Why is there money in the budget for this teletraphone that can be taken to another stupid, filming show? Well, why do you need all this? Why there is money in the budget for the D.B.I., a prosecutor whose representatives celebrate the wedding in such a way that the whole country. Well, it can only be compared to the Arab sheikhs. And nothing happens, it's okay, everything, no one's talking, no questions, we're dancing, we're singing. It can't be, it's indignant to people. I've listed many professions. The most important profession today is military. What would happen if the military got up and left as they got up and went to the national deputies today. T, this is our position here, we have to hold this position. We don't keep her, the deputies split up, they're very busy. I don't know. I don't know what. And it's shameful, and it's wrong. And so, my friends, let's change our approach immediately. Let's put our priorities right. The most important thing is the military. The main thing is the army. It can't be that a man in the army has 700 or 800 dollars a month. It's bullying, it can't be like that. There can't be such a thing as a future officer, well, for God's sake, it's gonna be a little over 2,000 bucks now. But there can be no such thing, there will be no future officers. It can't be 860 bucks per child. Because this is our most important resource, people. They can give us weapons from abroad, and, thank God, they do. They can give us financial support, and, thank God, they do. We're not going to give people. No one's gonna give us people. So this is the very main resource that is in Ukraine today, and we don't know how long the war is going to last. Yes, perhaps the fighting will end somewhere and then resume. It's been going on for almost 10 years, when there's actually a war going on and almost two years as a full-scale invasion. How much longer? Our job is to save people. Our job is to have these people born. Our job is to get people back. It's our job. And that means taking money from marathons, nobody needs it, from politics, from the Bureau of Economic Security, which is just a nightmare of a business that still gives jobs to prosecutors and others so they can't afford to spend 100,000 dollars on weddings and make a wedding that's embarrassing to everyone in the country. And all of this is to be given to those who are to survive today: Mother, that she may give birth to the military, that she may protect us. This is the right budget, you can vote for this budget. It's not too late to do that. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u289	Alexeiyovich, you've finished all your changes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand. Nina Petrovna, you want to make four of your corrections now, don't you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u290	Instead of four minutes, two minutes and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u291	And instead of four, two minutes and that's it. Please, Nina Petrovna, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u292	I thank you for understanding, because it's a little bad today after the shots. Please tell me, I want to ask Mrs. Roxolan and again Mr. Dennis to provide a complete explanation as to what kind of alignment, what kind of pay-for-government reform you're doing? We just came up with the amendments, like 1225. The cost of work is higher than the base, which is 23rd year plus 10.8 percent by more than half a billion dollars. Please tell me why you're so respectful of the D.B.I., and when Mr. Iron from Voice was on the working groups on the baby, did you take down 171 million, even though I suggested 244? It's also a law enforcement agency. They must have the same approach. Please, we still have to systematically address the issues, not play the personal wars that are being fought there by the committee head, the committee's deputy. And the D.B.I., then? Well, where's the only approach? Do not give in to provocation. We need to have a balanced approach to all the supervisors regarding the increase in the Wages Fund. I hope you'll give me full information about what's going on with the Pay for Work Fund so I can explain to my colleagues and tell them what you've done to avoid these issues that we just talked about. Thank you. And I expect an answer from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u293	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Let's move on, dear fellows. 815th, Tistik. Don't insist. 816th, Grissom. Don't insist. 817th, Prostruk. Don't insist. 818th, Babenko. Don't insist. 820, Ruddick. Don't insist. 821st, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 822th, Timoshenko with colleagues. Here we go. 823th, Volintz. Don't insist. 824th, Ruddick. Don't insist. 825th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 826th, Timoshenko with colleagues. Here we go. 827th, Volintz. Don't insist. 828th, Timoshenko. Don't insist. 829th, Volintz. Don't insist. 830th, Wolintz. Don't insist. 831st, Volintz. Don't insist. 832, a coworker's coworker. Don't insist. 833rd Bondar himself. Don't insist. 834th, Bondar. Don't insist. 835, Bondar. Don't insist. 836th, Frolov. Don't insist. 837, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 838, Bondar. Don't insist. 839th, Bondar. Don't insist. 840th, Volintz. Don't insist. 841s, Bondar. Don't insist. 842nd, Volintz. Don't insist. 843rd, Bondar. Don't insist. 844th, Bondar. Don't insist. 845, Mushroom with colleagues. Don't insist. 846th, Ruddick. Don't insist. 847th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 848th, Bondar. Don't insist. 849th, Volintz. Don't insist. 850, Bondar. Don't insist. 851, Pucherenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 852, Yatzenko. Don't insist. 853, Leschenko. Don't insist. 854th, Ephimov and his colleagues. Don't insist. 855th, Ephimov and his colleagues. Don't insist. 857, Bondar. Don't insist. 858th Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 859th Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 860th Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 861th, same committee. Don't insist. 862, Bondar. Don't insist. 863rd Ironman. Don't insist. 864, Ironman. Don't insist. 865th Ironman. Don't insist. 866th Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 867th, Cabal. Don't insist. 868th, Bondar. Don't insist. 869th Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 870th Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 872, Cabal. Don't insist. 873, Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 874th, Susko. Don't insist. 845th, Bondar. Don't insist. 875, Bondar. Don't insist. 876th, Bondar. Don't insist. 878th Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 879th, Bondar. Don't insist. 880s, Cymbaluk. Don't insist. 881st, Velickovich. Don't insist. 882nd Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 883, Dubinsky. Don't insist. 884, Susko. Don't insist. 885th, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 886th, Leschenko. Don't insist. 887, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 889th, Shpak. I've already said it. 890s, Aresonkov. Don't insist. 891s, Leschenko. Don't insist. 892, Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 893, Magera. Don't insist. 894, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 895, Bondar. Don't insist. 896, Bondar. Don't insist. 897th Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 898, Timoshenko with his colleagues. They've already said it. 899th Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 900th, Tretyakova. Don't insist. 901, Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 902, Leschenko. Don't insist. 903, Yatzenko. Don't insist. 904, Aresonkov. Don't insist. 905, Tretyakova. Don't insist. 906th, Tretyakova. Don't insist. 907th Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 908th, same committee. Don't insist. 909th, Tretyakova. Don't insist. 911, Shpak. Don't insist. 912th, Bondar. Don't insist. 913th, Bondar. Don't insist. 914, Leschenko. Don't insist. 915th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 916th, Aresonkov. Don't insist. 917th Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 918th Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 919th, Razumkov has already spoken. 920th, Shpak. Don't insist. 921s, Bondar. Don't insist. 922th, Ephimov and his colleagues. Don't insist. 923th, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 925th Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 926th, Rudik. Don't insist. 927th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 928, Bakunec with his colleagues. Don't insist. 929th, Bondar. Don't insist. 930, Bondar. Don't insist. 931, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 932nd, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 934th, Shpak. Don't insist. 935, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 936th Economic Development Committee. Don't insist. 937, Ironman with a colleague. Don't insist. The same 938 revision. Same thing in 939. 940th Frolow with a colleague. Don't insist. 941st, a coworker's coworker. Don't insist. 942nd, Bondar doesn't insist. 943rd Iron. Don't insist. 944th Ironman with the Kid. Don't insist. 945, the same authors. Don't insist. 946th, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 947th Committee on Environmental Policy. Don't insist. 948th, Magera. Don't insist. 949th Committee on Environmental Policy. Don't insist. 950th, Cabal. Don't insist. 951th Committee on Environmental Policy. Don't insist. 952th, Prostruk. Don't insist. 953rd Committee on Environmental Policy. Don't insist. 954th Committee on Environmental Policy. Don't insist. 956th, Prostuk. Don't insist. 957th, Prostuk. Don't insist. 958th Committee on Environmental Policy. Don't insist. 959th, Cabal. Don't insist. 960th, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 961th Committee on Environmental Policy. 962th, Cabal. Don't insist. 963, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 964th Committee on Environmental Policy. Don't insist. 965th, Cabal. Don't insist. 966th Committee on Environmental Policy. Don't insist. 967th, Prostruk. Don't insist. 968th Committee on Environmental Policy. Don't insist. 969th, Bondar. Don't insist. 970th, Black Sea. Don't insist. 971th Committee on Environmental Policy. Don't insist. 973, Marusian. Don't insist. 974th Committee on Environmental Policy. Don't insist. 975th, Magera. Don't insist. 976th Committee on Environmental Policy and Use. Don't insist. 977th Committee on Environmental Policy. Don't insist. 978th, Bondar. Don't insist. 979th Committee on Environmental Policy. Don't insist. 981, Rudik. Don't insist. 982th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 983, the Committee on Environmental Policy. Don't insist. 984, Bondar. Don't insist. 985th Committee on Environmental Policy. Don't insist. 987, Bacon. Don't insist. 988th Agrarian and Land Policy Committee. Don't insist. 989th, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 990, Meiditch. Don't insist. 991th, Timoshenko and his colleagues, have already spoken. Don't insist. 992th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. Ninety-nine, Shpak. Don't insist. 995th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 996, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 997, Iron Man with a colleague. Don't insist. Same 998, no insistence. 999, Maedic, Kirilenko. Don't insist. 1,000 repairs. A boy with colleagues. Don't insist. 1001st Agrarian and Land Policy Committee. Don't insist. 1002th, Meiditch. Don't insist with a colleague. 1003, Timoshenko with his colleagues. It's been said. 1004th, Mayditch with a colleague. Don't insist. 1005th Mayditch with a colleague. Don't insist. 1006th, Mayditch with a colleague. Don't insist. 1007, Bogdanec with his colleagues. Don't insist. 1008, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1009, Maedic and his colleagues. Don't insist. 1010, Meidić and his colleague. Don't insist. 1011th Agrarian and Land Policy Committee. Don't insist. 1012th Agrarian and Land Policy Committee. Don't insist. 1013th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1014th, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1015th Agrarian and Land Policy Committee. Don't insist. 1016th Ironman with the Kid. Don't insist. 1017th, the same authors. Don't insist. 1019, Ironman with the Kid. Don't insist. 1020th Agrarian and Land Policy Committee. Don't insist. 1021st Ironman with the Kid. Don't insist. 1022, the same authors. Don't insist. 1023th, the same authors. Don't insist. 1024th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1025th, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1026th Agrarian and Land Policy Committee. Don't insist. 1027th Agrarian and Land Policy Committee. Don't insist. 1028th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1030th, the Gethmans. Don't insist with your colleagues. 1031st, Timoshenko with colleagues. It's been said. 1032th, Eugene. Fedina will, won't she? Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u294	Taking advantage of the 1032 version, I would like to point out that, both in February of this year and now, Mrs. Podlasa definitely does not want to hear the reality of drones. And it was said that I was lying about 40 billion uses. So I have a letter from the State Department from 27.09, which clearly describes how much and what 40 billion have done. Without going into detail, I would point out that a little more than half the amount has been paid and contracts are planned for the rest. There's almost no supply. Therefore, this amendment foresees that one and a half billion people who want to allocate the Ephemeral Innovation Fund should now be taken and transferred directly to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, so that there is direct procurement of drones, not through the State Security Agency, but through the procurement agency at the Ministry of Defence, which meets NATO standards. And I'm asking you to study the real situation, take advantage of my college girls' invitation to go to the front and find out what's going on?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u295	Will you put this amendment to the vote? Amendment 1032 by Fedina and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:48:16]] For 20 The decision is not taken. 1033, Iron Man with his colleagues. Don't insist. 1034th, Iron Man with a colleague. Don't insist. 1035 and the same authors. Don't insist. 1036th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1037th, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1038th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1039. Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u296	The 1039 bill provides for the removal of 300 million dollars, which are allocated to an incomprehensible national information program and, again, to transfer to the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Now, I'm very interested in all these programs, some kind of information development, digitization, which somehow go out to the usual volunteers and those who help the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Now, some kind of nonsense is happening with innovation that completely blocks the provision of humanitarian and volunteer assistance. We don't have the ability to conduct normal purchases on the front, none of these programs have helped to calculate, and who's "communisted" 36 billion dollars that the Ministry of Defense has told us for the unknown, empty contracts for which there are no deliveries. That's why you had to include the brains of those who write this bill or draft budget, not that you're here pretending to be presenting and transferring funds where they might be the most effective for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, because otherwise it's all a diversion.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u297	Are you insisting on this amendment to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u299	Please correct 1039, the authorship of Fedina and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:50:02]] For-22. The decision is not taken. 1040, Stormy. Don't insist. 1041, Silent. Don't insist. 1042, Kovalov. Don't insist. 1043, Negulewski. Don't insist. 1044, Bacon. Don't insist. 1045, Shpak. Don't insist. 1046, Brainy. I've made some adjustments. 1048, Negulewski. Don't insist. 1049, Negulewski. Don't insist. 1050, Bondar. Don't insist. 1051, Bondar. Don't insist. 1052, Schuljak. Don't insist. 1053, Negulewski. Don't insist. 1054th Committee of the Organization of State Authorities. Don't insist. 1055, Bondar. Don't insist. 1056, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 1057, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1058, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1059, Bondar. Don't insist. 1060, Cabal. Don't insist. Next, 1062, Schuljak. Don't insist. 1063, Shulak. Don't insist. 1064, Negulewski. Don't insist. 1065, Cabal. Don't insist. 1066, Schuljak. Don't insist. 1067, Committee on Humanities, Information. Don't insist. 1068, Schuljak. Don't insist. 1069 amendments, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 1070th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1071th, Chulak. Don't insist. 1072th, Negulewski. Don't insist. 1073th, Cradenko. Don't insist. 1074th, Salamaha. Don't insist. 1075th, Salamaha. Don't insist. 1076th, Salamaha. Don't insist. 1077th, Salamaha. Don't insist. 1078th, Salamaha. Don't insist. 1079th, the same author. Don't insist. 1080, Salamaha. Don't insist. 1081st, Bondar. Don't insist. 1082nd, Bondar. Don't insist. 1083, Salamaha. Don't insist. 1084, Salamaha. Don't insist. 1085th, Bondar. Don't insist. 1086th, Frolov. Don't insist. 1087th, Roadside. Don't insist. 1088th, Chulak. Don't insist. 1089th, Alexiyczuk with his colleagues. Don't insist. 1090th State Authority Committee. Don't insist. 1091s, Coon with his colleagues. Don't insist. 1092nd Youth and Sports Committee. Don't insist. 1093, Sanchenko and Borzova. Don't insist. Next up is 1095, Krulko. Don't insist. 1096th Youth and Sports Committee. Don't insist. 1097, Bondar. Don't insist. 1098, Bondar doesn't insist. 1099th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1100, Ironman. Don't insist. 1101, Iron. Don't insist. 1102, Iron Man with his colleagues. Don't insist. 1103, Ruddick. Don't insist. 1104th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 1105, Krulko. Don't insist. 1106th, Krulko. Don't insist. 1107, Ruddick. Don't insist. 1108, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 1109th Youth and Sports Committee. Don't insist. 1110, Bondar. Don't insist. 1113, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1114, Bondar. Don't insist. 1116th Economic Development Committee. Don't insist. 1117, Cimbaluk. Don't insist. 1118th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 1119th, Shulak. Don't insist. 1120, Shinkarenko. Don't insist. 1121, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 1123th, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1124th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1126, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1127, Bondar. Don't insist. 1128th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1129th, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 1130, Mama and her colleagues. Don't insist. 1132, South Carolina with her colleagues. Don't insist. Gerasimov, yes, I understand? 1132. Wait, you're not in the co-authors here. Wait a second. Oh, yes, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Arthur Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry. Just a lot of co-authors. I saw you, yes. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u300	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, which refers to the 1132 revision, is a great request. Now, look, this right to development expenditure -- you can guess from one time everyone in this room, where this is going -- there's 108 million dollars on the holdingfinmonitoring. Please tell me that there is a large-scale invasion, every single penny in the account, and here on the ephemeral of some article, the expense of some development of the holdingfinguining, remember the PEP Act of those in this room, there are 108 million dollars. So I sincerely ask you to vote for all who are in the room, for this amendment, and not to allow these 108 million dollars of development expenditure to be allocated to the Derfinmonitoring. They don't deserve it during the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u301	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. 1132 Amendments by Gerasimov and colleagues She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:55:14]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. The next is 1133, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1134th, Negulewski. Don't insist. 1135th, Chulak. Don't insist. 1136th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1137, Timoshenko with colleagues. They've already said it. 1138. She's in math, 1224 goes after 1138. And I'll tell you, I'll tell you, we'll be there soon, I will. Now. 1124th? Sorry, no, 1124 is the Cabal. 1224th, Arthur Volodymyrovich? I'm telling you, it goes after 1138, which is what we're looking at right now. 1138, Eugene. Don't insist. 1139th, Heroshenko. Don't insist. 1141, Bacon. Don't insist. 1142, Shpak. Don't insist. 1143, Cabal. Don't insist. 1143, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 1145, Reasonable. Don't insist. 1146, Shpak. Don't insist. 1147, Bondar. Don't insist. 1148, Cabal. Don't insist. 1149, the Gethmans. Don't insist with your colleagues. 1150, Rudik. Don't insist. 1151, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 1152, Rudik. Don't insist. 1153, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 1154, Bacon and his colleagues. Don't insist. 1155, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1157, Bondar. Don't insist. 1158, Reasonable with colleagues. Don't insist. 1159, Committee on Humanities and Information Policy Don't insist. 1161, Poturaev, Kravczuk. Don't insist. 1162, Bondar. Don't insist. 1163, Cabal. Don't insist. 1164, Timoshenko with colleagues. It's been said. 1166, Cabal. Don't insist. 1167, Committee on Humanities and Information Policy Don't insist. 1168, Poturaev. Don't insist. 1169, Bondar. Don't insist. 1170, the Gethmans. Don't insist with your colleagues. 1171, Megmedov. Don't insist. 1172, Rudik. Don't insist. 1173, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 1174, Bondar. Don't insist. 1175 Crawchuk. Don't insist. 1176, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1177, Bondar. Don't insist. 1178, Bondar. Don't insist. 1179, Bondar. Don't insist. 1180, Bondar. Don't insist. 1181, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1182, Digital Transformation Committee. Don't insist. 1183, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1184, National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee. Don't insist. 1185, Clever with colleagues. Don't insist. 1186. Gerasimov. Arthur Volodymyrovich, 1186. Don't insist. 11. You said 1224. Oh, that too. And another 1186. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u302	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! What's this paper about, 1186? It's about increasing expenses, look at code 5961010. Now, attention is to increase the cost of our research in the field of defense. Where to take this 200 million, let me explain. From the D.B.I.'s development, from the D.A.'s development costs and so on, and so on and so forth. So I think that today, in the course of a full-scale invasion, any money allocated to the costs of the incomprehensible corruption of the law enforcement agencies must be transferred to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, in this case specifically to defence intelligence. Thank you. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u303	Thank you. Please correct 1186 Gerasimov. Declined. Please vote. [[14:59:39]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. 1187, Chevchenko. Please, 1187, Shevchenko asked. Shevchenko asked, but Shevchenka doesn't. Okay. He doesn't insist. 1188th Economic Development Committee. Don't insist. 1189, Iron Man with the Kid. Don't push it. 1190, Iron Man with the Kid. Don't insist. 1191 the Ironman with the Kid. Don't insist. 1192, Chevchenko. Again, he asked for his word. Is there a Chewchenko? He doesn't insist. 1193rd Committee on Economic Development. Don't insist. 1195, Eugene. I've already said it. 1196th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 1197, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1198, Bondar. Don't insist. 1199, Ironman. Don't insist. 1200th Ironman with a colleague. Don't insist. 1201, Iron Man with a colleague. Don't insist. 1203, Bondar. Don't insist. 1204th, Eugene and his colleagues. Don't insist. Next. 1205, Ironman with a colleague. Don't insist. 1206, Iron Man with a colleague. Don't insist. 1207, Iron Man with a colleague. Don't insist. 1208, Bondar. Don't insist. 1209, Bondar. Don't insist. 1210, Mama and her colleagues. Don't insist. 1211th National Security Committee. Don't insist. 1212, Ruddick. Don't insist. 1213th, Krulko. Don't insist. 1214th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1215, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1216th Economic Development Committee. Don't insist. 1218th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1219th, Ironborn. Don't insist. And before that, 1218, the Cabal. Don't insist. 1219th, Ironborn. Don't insist on him. 1220, Iron Man with the Kid. Don't insist. 1221, Iron Man with the Kid. Don't insist. 1223th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1224th. Please, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u304	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, what this paper is about, is just to let you know, 335 million dollars are allocated to the development costs of the D.B.I. Instead of directing this money to the Armed Forces of Ukraine instead of directing this money to create and purchase new weapons, instead of directing this money to help the injured, the families of the dead, they are directed to the corrupt, so - called development costs of the State Bureau of Investigation. We all remember what happened to this bureau of inquiry in the early days of the war, and where was its leadership? And this is where you want to put 335 additional millions? That's why we're stressing our statements about which things in this budget are definitely unfaithful and wrong. So I'm asking you to back up the bill, take this money to the D.B.I. and direct it to the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u305	1224 revision of Gerasimov's authorship with colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[15:03:13]] For-16 The decision is not taken. For –16. 1227, Bondar. Don't insist. 1228, Iron Man with his colleagues. Don't insist. 1229, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1230, Iron Man with the Kid. Don't insist. 1231, Ironman with the Kid. Don't insist. 1232, Bondar. Don't insist. 1233, Iron Man with the Kid. Don't insist. 1235, Ironman with the Kid. Don't insist. 1236, the same authors. Don't insist. 1237, the same authors. Don't insist. 1238, Iron Man, Kid. Don't insist. 1239. It's partially accounted for. 1240, Iron Man, Kid. Don't insist. 1241s, Iron Man, Kid. Don't insist. 1243, Iron Man, Kid. Don't insist. 1244, Iron Man, Kid. Don't insist. 1245, Iron Man, Kid. Don't insist. 1247th, Eugene. Don't insist. 1248th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1249th, with his colleagues. Don't insist. 1250, Mama and her colleagues. Don't insist. 1252nd, Bondar. Don't insist. 1253, Bondar. Don't insist. 1254th National Security and Defence Committee. Don't insist. 1255, Brainy with colleagues. Don't insist. 1256, Bondar. Don't insist. 1257, Ironborn. Don't insist. 1258, Iron Man, Kid. Don't insist. 1259th, Iron Man, Kid. Don't insist. 1260s, Bondar. Don't insist. 1261 amendment, Roadside. Don't insist. 1263, Roadside. Don't insist. 1264, Bondar. Don't insist. 1265th Education Committee. Don't insist. 1267, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. 1268, Mama and her colleagues don't insist. 1269th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1270, Schuljak. Don't insist. 1271, Bondar. Don't insist. 1272, Bondar. Don't insist. 1273th, Ironborn. Don't insist. 1274th, the Iron Man doesn't insist with the Kid. 1275th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1276, Iron Man, Kid. Don't insist. 1277th Education Committee. Don't insist. 1278, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. 1279th Education Committee. Don't insist. 1280, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. 1281s, Bondar. Don't insist. 1282nd Education Committee. Don't insist. 1283, Timoshenko and his colleagues don't insist. 1284, Mama. Don't insist. 1285, Timoshenko and his colleagues don't insist. 1286, Timoshenko and his colleagues don't insist. 1287th Education Committee. Don't insist. 1288, Bondar. Don't insist. 1289th Education Committee. Don't insist. 1290, Kopanchuk. Don't insist. 1291st, Leschenko. Don't insist. 1292, Dubnov. Don't insist. 1293, Tzabal. Don't insist. 1294th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1295, Bondar. Don't insist. 1296, the Gethmans with colleagues. Don't insist. 1297, Bondar. Don't insist. 1298, Bondar. Don't insist. 1299, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. 1300th Education Committee. Don't insist. The 1301s, Zabranna. Don't insist. 1302, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. 1303th, Marchuk. Don't insist. 1304th Agrarian Affairs Committee. Don't insist. 1305, Zabranna. Don't insist. 1306th Education Committee. Don't insist. 1307, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. 1308th Economic Development Committee. Don't insist. 1309th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1310th, Bondar. Don't insist. 1311th, Bondar. Don't insist. 1312th National Security Committee. Don't insist. 1313th, intellectual with colleagues. Don't insist. 1314th, Bondar. Don't insist. 1316th, Eugene. Don't insist. 1317th, Bondar. Don't insist. 1318th National Security Committee. Don't insist. 1319th, intellectual with colleagues. Don't insist. 1320, Bondar. Don't insist. 1321st Ironman with the Kid. Don't insist. The same 1322's, the same 1323's, the Iron Man with the Claupuck. 1324th, Bondar. Don't insist. 1325th National Security Committee. Don't insist. 1326th, Umumkov. Don't insist. 1327, Bondar. Don't insist. 1328th, Bondar. Don't insist. 1329th, Iron Man, Kid. Don't insist. 1330, Iron Man, Kid. Don't insist. 1331st, Iron Man, Kid. Don't insist. 1332, Iron Man, Kid. Don't insist. 1333rd, Iron Man, Kid. Don't insist. 1334, Iron Man, Kid. Don't insist. 1335, Bondar. Don't insist. 1336, Bondar. Don't insist. 1337th, Committee of the Organization of State Authorities. Don't insist. 1338th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1339, Bondar. Don't insist. 1340th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1341s, Bondar. Don't insist. 1342, Cabal. Don't insist. 1343rd, Bondar. Don't insist. 1344th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1345, Bondar. Don't insist. 1346th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1347, Bondar. Don't insist. 1348th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1349th, Bondar. Don't insist. 1350, Cabal. Don't insist. 1351s, Bondar. Don't insist. 1352th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1353, Bondar. Don't insist. 1354th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1355, Bondar. Don't insist. 1356th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1357, Bondar. Don't insist. 1358, Bondar. Don't insist. 1359th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1360s, Bondar. Don't insist. 1361th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1362th, Bondar. Don't insist. 1363, Tzabal. Don't insist. 1364, Bondar. Don't insist. 1365th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1366, Bondar. Don't insist. 1367th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1368, Bondar. Don't insist. 1369th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1370, Bondar. Don't insist. 1371, Cabal. Don't insist. 1372, Bondar. Don't insist. 173rd, the Cabal. Don't insist. 1374, Bondar. Don't insist. 1375, Bondar. Don't insist. 1376th, Cabal. Don't insist. 1377, Bondar. Don't insist. 1378, Bondar. Don't insist. 1379, Bondar. Don't insist. 1380, Cabal. Don't insist. 1381st, Bondar. Don't insist. 1382, Bondar. Don't insist. 1383, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. 1384, Maedic, Kirilenko. Don't insist. 1385, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. 1386th, Shpak. Don't insist. 1387, intellectual with colleagues. Don't insist. 1388th Youth and Sports Committee. Don't insist. 1389th, Mokan. Don't insist. 1390, Koleboshin. Don't insist. 1391st, with his colleagues. Don't insist. 1392th, Shpak. Don't insist. 1393, Bondar. Don't insist. The '94s, Bondar. Don't insist. 1395, Salamaha. Don't insist. 1396th, Shpak. Don't insist. 1397, Brainy with colleagues. Don't insist. Wait a second, let's move on to the next one. 1398, Magera. Don't insist. 1399, Vasilevska Smagluk. Don't insist. 1400s, Batenko. Don't insist. 1401s, Batenko. Don't insist. 1402, Batenko. Don't insist. 1403, Batenko. Don't insist. 1404th, Batenko. Don't insist. 1405, Batenko. Don't insist. 1406, Batenko. Don't insist. 1407, Batenko. Don't insist. 1408, Batenko. Don't insist. Now, colleagues, big fix. 1409th Committee on Public Authority and Local Self-Government. Don't insist. 1410, Brainy with his colleagues. Don't insist. In 1411, with his colleagues. Don't insist. 1412, Goncharenko. Don't insist. 1413th, Grissom. Don't insist. 1414, Prostuk. Don't insist. 1415th, Babenko. Don't insist. 1416th, Tistik. Don't insist. 1417, Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 1418th, Shpak. Don't insist. 1419, Bujansky. Don't insist. 1420, Krulko. Don't insist. 1421, Timoshenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 1422, Grishina. Don't insist. 1423, Ironman with colleagues. Don't insist. 1424, Iron Man with his colleagues. Don't insist. 1425, Ironman with colleagues. Don't insist. 1426, Bondar. Don't insist. 1427, Brainy with his colleagues. Don't insist. 1428, Stépa. Don't insist. 1429th, Shpak. Don't insist. 1432, Burresin. Don't insist. 1434, Bondar. Don't insist. 1435, Bondar. Don't insist. 1436th Committee on Social Policy. Don't insist. 1437, Bondar. Don't insist. 1438, the Social Policy Committee doesn't insist. 1439th Committee. Magera, I'm sorry. Don't insist. 1440th, Gorbenko, Tachenko, Kozir. Don't insist. 1441s, Bondar. Don't insist. 1442th Committee on Social Policy. Don't insist. 1443, Bondar. Don't insist. 1444th, Shpak. Don't insist. 1445th, Mokan. Don't insist. 1446, Bondar. Don't insist. 1447, Labazuk. Don't insist. 1449, Magera. Don't insist. 1450s, Grishina. Don't insist. 1451s, Bondar. Don't insist. 1453, Strunevich. Don't insist. 1454th, Strunevich. Don't insist. 1455, Cusbitt. Don't insist. 1456, Strunevich. Don't insist. 1457, Strunevich. Don't insist. 1458, Cusbit. Don't insist. 1459th, Strunevich. Don't insist. 1460s, Strunevich. Don't insist. 1461s, Cusbitt. Don't insist. 1462, Strunevich. Don't insist. 1463, Struenevich. Don't insist. 1464, Tistik. Don't insist. 1465, Tistik. Don't insist. 1466, Tistik. Don't insist. 1468, Tistik. Don't insist. 1469, Tistik. Don't insist. 1470, Roadside. Don't insist. 1472, Frolow. Don't insist. 1473, Roadside. Don't insist. 1474th, Chulak. Don't insist. 1475, Bondar. Don't insist. 1476, Susko. Don't insist. 1477th, Ephimov and his colleagues. Don't insist. 1478th Committee on Social Policy. Don't insist. 1479, Bondar. Don't insist. 1480s, Social Policy Committee. Don't insist. 1481st, Bondar. Don't insist. 1482th, Cornyenka. Don't you insist? Oh, no? 1482? Ah, they did. Thank you. 1482, Conryenka. Don't insist. 1483, Goncharenko. Don't insist. 1484, Tistik. Don't insist. 1485th, Shpak. Don't insist. 1486, Bujansky. Don't insist. 1487, Krulko. Don't insist. 1488, Vasilchenko. Don't insist. 1489, Grissom. Don't insist. 1490, Prostrzyk. Don't insist. 1491 Babenko. Don't insist. 1492, Frow. Don't insist. 1493, Roadside. Don't insist. 1494, Schuljak. Don't insist. 1495, Committee of Governmental Organizations. Don't insist. 1496, Timoshenko and her colleagues, made a statement. 1497, Timoshenko and his colleagues, said. 1498, Committee on Youth and Sports Don't insist. 1499, Ephimov. Don't insist. 1500, Bondar. Don't insist. One second, I'll have a drink. 1501, Jephim and his colleagues. Don't insist. 1502, Kisilevski, Bujansky. Don't insist. 1503, Bondar. Don't insist. 1504, Goncharenko. Don't insist. 1505, Tistik. Don't insist. 1506, Mushroom. Don't insist. 1507, Pencil. Don't insist. 1508, Babenko. Don't insist. 1509,Puck. Don't insist. 1510, Bujansky and Kisilevski. Don't insist. 1511, Krulko. Don't insist. 1512, Tistik. Don't insist. 1513, Tistik. Don't insist. 1514, Fries. Don't insist. 1515, Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 1516, Timoshenko and his colleagues, said. 1517, Timoshenko and his colleagues, said. 1518, Timoshenko and his colleagues, said. 1519, Committee on the Organization of State Authorities Don't insist. 1520, Committee on the Organization of State Authorities. Don't insist. 1521, same committee. Don't insist. 1522, Kisilevski, Bujansky Don't insist. 1523, Ephimov. Don't insist. 1524, Salamaha. Don't insist. 1525, Black Sea. Don't insist. 1526, Committee on the Organization of State Authorities. Don't insist. 1527, Goncharenko. Don't insist. 1528, Grissom. Don't insist. 1529, Prostrzyk. Don't insist. 1530, Babenko. Don't insist. 1531, Tistik. Don't insist. 1532, Vasilenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 1533, Purtova. Don't insist. 1534, Shpak. Don't insist. 1535, Bujansky, Kisilevski Don't insist. 1536, Krulko. Don't insist. 1537, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. 1538, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. 1539, Pivovarov. Don't insist. 1540, intellectual with colleagues. Don't insist. 1541, Committee on the Organization of State Authorities. Don't insist. 1542, Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 1543, Bacon and his colleagues. Don't insist. 1544, Bacon and his colleagues. Don't insist. 1545, Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 1546, Bezgin. Don't insist. 1548, Lis. Don't insist. 154. That's 47th, Lis, sorry, don't insist. 1547, Lis. Don't insist. 1548, Pivovarov. Don't insist. 1549. It's expensive. Don't insist. 1552, Shpak. Don't insist. 1554, Committee on the Organization of State Authorities Don't insist. 1555, Reasonable with colleagues. Don't insist. 1556, Goncharenko. Don't insist. 1557, Grib. Don't insist. 1558, Prostrzyk. Don't insist. 1559, Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 1560, Babenko. Don't insist. 1561, Tistik. Don't insist. 1562, Shpak. Don't insist. 1563, Bujansky, Kisilevski Don't insist. 1564, Krulko. Don't insist. 1565, Timoshenko with colleagues Here we go. 1566, Timoshenko with colleagues They didn't insist, they did. 1567, Jephim and his colleagues Don't insist. 1568, Committee on the Organization of State Authorities. Don't insist. 1569, Grissom. Don't insist. 1570, Prostrzyk. Don't insist. 1571, Babenko. Don't insist. 1572, Goncharenko. Don't insist. 1573, Tistik. Don't insist. 1574, Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 1575, Shpak. Don't insist. 1576, Bujansky and Kisilevski. Don't insist. 1577, Krulko. Don't insist. 1578, Timoshenko with colleagues. They've already said it, they don't insist. 1579, Timoshenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 1580, Discernment with colleagues. Don't insist. 1581, Committee on the Organization of State Authorities. Don't insist. 1582, Goncharenko. Don't insist. 1583, Grissom. Don't insist. 1584, Tistik. They told me you wanted to make this amendment. 1584, Tistik. Do you want to set this up? They told me they would. No, we're wrong. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u306	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u307	Okay. 1584. You don't insist, do you, Rostislav Jaroslavovich? 1585, Prostrzyk. Don't insist. 1586, Babenko. Don't insist. 1587, Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 1588, Shpak. Don't insist. 1589, Bujansky and Kisilevski. Don't insist. 1590, Krulko. Don't insist. 1591, Timoshenko with colleagues. They've already said it, they don't insist. 1900.1592, I'm sorry, Timoshenko and his colleagues. They've already said it, they don't insist. 1593, Committee on the Organization of State Authorities Don't insist. 1593, Goncharenko. 1594, Goncharenko. Don't insist. 1595 repairs, Grib. Don't insist. 1596, Prostuk. Don't insist. 1597, Babenko. Don't insist. 1598, Tistik. Don't insist. 1599, Vasilchenko. Don't insist. 1600s, Shpak. Don't insist. 1601, Bujansky. Don't insist. 1602, Krulko. Don't insist. 1603, Timoshenko and his colleagues spoke. Don't insist. 1604, Timoshenko with his colleagues. Don't insist. 1605, Vasilchenko with colleagues. Don't insist. 1606, Mama and her colleagues. Don't insist. 1607, Umumkov with his colleagues. Don't insist. 1608, Shpak. Don't insist. 1609, Bondar. Don't insist. 1610, Black. Don't insist. 1611, Rudik. Don't insist. 1612, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 1614, Tistik. Don't insist. 1615, Tistik. Don't insist. 1617, Umumkov with his colleagues. Don't insist. I'm sorry, 1617. And you're a co-author. Mikisha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u308	Thank you. 1617th revision, one of the last rights. Thank you all for staying. She's talking about local self-governance, because we understand that military PDF and in the 23rd year is probably going to go, and in the 24th year, it's not even foreseen for local budgets, and what does it predict? Certain subsidies and grants are foreseen. Which will go through the military administrations. Well, that's not good, because it's going to be in manual mode. And we're predicting that we're going to provide separate subsidies both for cover, and separate subsidies for social services in areas where fighting is taking place, and for differences in tariffs, because we understand that 64 percent, those 4 percent of the PFCs that were predicted, they've only closed 30 to 40 percent of the need. We ask that an additional subsidy be allocated to the difference in tariffs. So here's a list of subsidies that need to be given directly to local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-10-18-m0.u309	You insist on 1617? Dmitri, do you want me to vote her? The 1617th amendment of Mikishi's authorship and colleagues was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[15:24:15.]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Show me the factions, please. Oh, how embarrassing. Only two. All right, let's move on. Let's move on, dear fellows. There are still three adjustments left. It's just that they're very decomposed. I'll find them now, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I think everyone does. One second, there's three more repairs. 552nd page, right? Oh, it's very simple. Oh, they're all accounted for. 1618th, 1619th, 1620th, they're partially accounted for. Masterful colleagues! Please tell us, we have been through all the amendments that colleagues have offered to take into account. Yes, dear colleagues? But in view of all our circumstances, the consideration of matters of order for today is, unfortunately, not complete. Thank you all for your work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We continue to work for the full victory of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
