ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u1	Sava to Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today, we continue our plenary session. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament as early as an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. Please respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, as it was before our meeting, there will be an announcement of a recess in the plenary session, and we all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to parliamentary tradition, we will begin our work with the execution of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, the full-scale aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine has been taking place for over 15 months. The Russian terrorist state continues to inflict massive rocket strikes, attacks by drones in the territory of our country, planning on top of that to intimidate the Ukrainian people. You're not gonna make it! The unbreakable capital, like the entire Ukrainian state, stands firm. Ukraine’s defence forces hold firm their positions and make systematic preparations for the decisive liberation of the enemy territory. So I would like to pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of the defenders and the protectors, who unfortunately are not with us, and to all the innocent victims of this terrible unprovoked aggression of the Russian occupying state. Everlasting memory, eternal honor to heroes. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, before we begin, allow me to brief you on the results of my visit to Norway, Denmark, Sweden and Poland. This visit was devoted largely to developing arrangements between the leaders of Nordic countries and Ukraine, reached on May 3, this year in Helsinki. The main result is the confirmation by all countries of Ukraine's further support in resisting the aggressor, restoring our territorial integrity and sovereignty. This support and assistance will be in providing us with the necessary equipment and equipment available to our partners, training our military, treatment, and rehabilitation of the wounded. In particular, the expansion process of the tank and the formation of the flight coalition is under way. Visiting countries will continue their policy of strengthening sanctions against the Russian Federation, creating a special tribunal, and creating effective mechanisms to compensate Russia for Ukraine’s damage. Particular attention was paid to the issue of Ukraine’s NATO accession. We wanted to enlist the leadership of the above-mentioned states in order to determine for the future of the Vilnius NATO summit the clear modality of Ukraine's entry into the Alliance. I think we did it. All of the countries listed continue to support Ukraine’s integration into the European Union, which is due to mark the beginning of the accession negotiations at the end of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to report on the successful work of our delegation led by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Kornienk, of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. During the active participation of our colleagues on May 22, a declaration was adopted, which is particularly important in the context of the future NATO summit in Vilnius. The Parliamentary Assembly has given a powerful signal to the member countries of the North Atlantic Alliance on the need for acceptance. accept Ukraine to NATO. I also want to celebrate the work carried out by the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Elena Kondratuk, by drawing the attention of our international partners to the crime against Ukrainian children who are forcibly deported to the Russian Federation. I think it is particularly important to agree with the speaker of the Polish Parliamentary Forum on 26-27 June, which will address the issue of Ukrainian children deported to Russia. Also, dear colleagues, I would like to thank the Senate of Poland and Rigikogo Estonia, who, on 11 and 17 May, adopted the resolutions accordingly to support Ukraine's accession to NATO. Let's thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, during the last two weeks alone, the parliaments of the three foreign nations have recognized the Holocaust in 1932-1933 as a genocide of the Ukrainian people. On May 17, the Senate of the French Republic, May 23, the National Meeting of the Republic of Slovenia and May 25, the Chamber of Commons of Great Britain condemned this terrible crime against Ukraine, against the Ukrainian people. So I also want us to thank our foreign counterparts for these important decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies. Olga Sergiyivna Rudenko, "Serve of the People". Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Alexander Georgievovich Owl, "Serve of the People". Let's say hello. [[Applause]] And also John Adamovich Tchaikovsky, Party for the Future. We welcome John Adamovich. [[Applause]] Dear friends, by welcoming you, I wish you good health, peaceful heavens, fruitful work, and Ukraine’s rapid victory! Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes’ time before the daytime issues were discussed for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. So I'm asking representatives of the MP factions and groups to sign up. Please, colleagues, let's log in. The word is given to the national deputy of Zagradni Jury Ivanovich, the deputy group "Platform for Life and Peace" in the Supreme Council. Pavlenko, please, Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In 460 days of full - scale war, the Armed Forces of Ukraine showed extraordinary combat results. The Ukrainian defence forces surprised the whole world. There is no doubt that Ukraine will win this war. Today, however, one of the key tasks of the state and government, both parliament and military leadership, is to improve legislation and practice to drastically reduce the number of military casualties. Even one life saved or a soldier restored from rehabilitation to full life is worth all the effort. Ensuring justice in the financial security of every soldier is also our responsibility. This work is being carried out today by both the profile committee and the relevant working group created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, in order to achieve this goal, there must be a clear awareness among every parliamentarian, every civil servant of the various levels of the need to achieve it. Among the priorities, such as this, are the state’s fulfilment of all obligations to the military, the improvement of governance. I support those experts who point out that many military personnel want and can be an intelligent force that is allowed to use their minds and experiences. This is particularly evident in the territorial defenses, where many volunteers came from peaceful occupations and became effective soldiers and commanders. A uniform and complete provision for all the necessary units that are now in the forward range regardless of the type of army, so that all the organisms work as one, and there is no division into better and worse. In particular, it is important to provide the TRO with armoured equipment. The support and promotion of those commanders who have achieved results with limited losses is a treasure for our army, a soldier as the key value of the state. That is why budget priorities need to be reconsidered in favour of its proper weapons and security. The army must be reinforced, equipped with an unlimited number of drones, both ground and air, radios, the Internet, night targets, minomets of all levels at battalion level, small-range missiles, pharmacies, all that makes a soldier less vulnerable, training and training soldiers very important to us today. The more trained and provided a soldier, the less lost. It requires reform and military bureaucracy, and the support of the military industry. And this is just a partial list of the priorities that should be at the heart of the work of the Supreme Council, where the main place is the life of a Ukrainian soldier.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u3	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Andriy Viktorovich. That's how I understand it, it's what I'm saying, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u4	Congratulations, fellows! This is Alexander Marikowski. An event took place in Ankara two weeks ago, and a Russian diplomat got drunk for this Ukrainian flag with a coat of arms. It's a tradition that we started at PACES, in this parliamentary assembly, to raise flags not only for Ukraine, but also for the military flags, to charge the energy of the boys and girls who stand in defense of our state. And it's important to us that these flags rise in the walls of the Supreme Council. Today we've brought more than 10 flags, next time we'll bring 20, 30, 40. Unfortunately, we have not been able to lift them today, but we will try again and again. Each time we raise them up in the Supreme Council to show that we are in solidarity with the military, that we remember them, that they make us do everything we can to ensure that we communicate with them, that we effectively restore them morally, physically, and that we do not forget the veterans. Thank you. I'm handing it over to Vadim Galajchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I wanted to inform you about the participation of our delegation of the People's Servant and the Voice Party, which are members of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe in Congress (ALDE), which took place in Stockholm on these weekends. It was adopted by 23 resolutions of the 6 resolutions that directly addressed Ukraine, which were initiated by our respective delegations, and by three additional resolutions of the relevant, as it were, issues that are extremely important to us. I would like to issue a separate resolution on Ukraine's rapid and smooth integration into the European Union, on the creation of a special tribunal to punish Russian criminals, on the dignity and support of victims of sexual violence in Ukraine, on the support of persons displaced through the war in Russia and so on. We see great support from our partners, our allies in Europe and in many other countries around the world. And I am very grateful to all who participated in the work of this delegation, who helped us with the preparation of these resolutions, with their promotion, lobbying. And I am also very grateful to our partners, who voted for us, who are now the basis for making political decisions in the future in the institutions of the European Union. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u6	Please, Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, faction of European Solidarity. Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u7	Dear national MPs, dear Ukrainian people! First of all, I would like to begin by saying thanks to the Parliament of Ukraine, the Parliamentary Delegation to NATO for its brilliant, coordinated and effective work, which is the result of the first time in history that the Parliamentary Assembly, as a higher political body, has not only called for the recognition of Wagner by a terrorist organization, not only introduced the notion of "racism" into international law, but also made a decision on the recommendation of the Vilnius Summit to invite Ukraine to the NATO membership negotiations. I want to emphasize that we focus on three kinds of activities: first, help to the Armed Forces, second, international activity and parliamentary work. After Luxembourg, I had a very important meeting in the European Commission with the European Commissioners, the European Council, the European Parliament and the External Relations Service. And I would like to convey to you the concern that today is before the Ukrainian Parliament is ready this week to address the principles of the issues outlined by the European Commission as a prerequisite for the opening of formal entry negotiations. I emphasize that right now we have to adopt important laws. Once again, I reiterate that this is not about negotiation, this is about delivery, this is not about the negotiations that were held when we got the status, it's about us voting, voting on the Constitutional Court Act according to the conclusions of the Venice Commission, voting for the PEP, voting for the declarations, voting for the words, voting for the political diversity in Parliament -- parliamentary pluralism, voting for another 30,000, for the restoration of the military. And I would like to stress that the decision of this law will restore 30,000 parliamentarians to Ukraine and restore justice. I'm sure today in Parliament there is enough unity and courage to support the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to support our NATO movement, to support our movement towards membership in the European Union. Praise to the Armed Forces of Ukraine and glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u8	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u9	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, during the non-sessional weeks, we had the opportunity to go to hospitals, hospitals that work very close to the front line, talk to wounded fighters, talk to medics. What I want to tell you is that today we celebrate our heroes, we thank them for coming to protect us, the country, our children, our families, we pray for them. But when they get hurt and they get to the hospital and hospital, please tell me, who gave them the right to limit their pay, the ones they got on the front? Even for a civilian who is sick, there is an average salary and hospital pay. Who gave our wounded and hospitalized fighters the right to take the fighting money they received while protecting us? And so first of all, what I want to ask for right now is the hall. We have a working group working to pay some expenses for our heroes, heroes who are protecting Ukraine today. I'm asking all of you to get involved in this and make sure that if a person is injured on the front and gets into treatment, until the treatment is complete, until the person is fully healed, our wounded hero or heroine, pay the money all the payments they've been, and plus the fighting money they've been getting on the front. Would that be unfair, and did they not deserve it in our country? In addition, immediately review the cost of the NZU packets that are going to be treated, the money, the tariffs of our wounded. Compared with the packages used to treat civilians, we need to introduce the code Y used today to 2.6 times the cost of NHRIs to treat our wounded, to rehabilitate them. I'm asking you to pay attention to this. They have earned such decisions in Ukraine. Our team will be fairly consistent and fundamental. Praise our heroes! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u10	Please give the word to Efimov, please, "Deliverance of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u11	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Our common struggle for Ukraine continues for the future of our people. The military frontal and economic rear is a tandem for further victory over the aggressor. The path to peace requires our total unity. Special attention should be paid to the social protection of vulnerable populations. The war caused unprecedented migration. As of today, there are nearly 5 million internally displaced persons in the country, an unofficial number of more than 7 million. Our MP group is in constant contact with the VPO. Not in other people's words do we see problems with housing, availability of permanent work, provision of social services. Active humanitarian assistance, coordination of volunteers and benefactors does not solve systemic challenges, and it is vital that the state implements its commitments in a timely manner. The situation is also recognized at the governmental level. Technical reasons or disagreements between the authorities cannot be sufficient explanation for the failure to provide help. As a parliament, we are always ready to take operational steps to resolve issues with the social protection of Ukrainians. Ukraine is expected to review electricity and water tariffs for the population. Obviously, this is going to require a change in the amount of compensation for utility services for VPOs. We urge you not to waste time, to update aid amounts to maintain the current level of support. Colleagues, in order to solve the problems of internally displaced persons, it is strategically necessary to focus on the wolf, not the fish. In Ukrainian realities, this will mean stimulating large-scale retraining, job creation, the expansion of new productions and the development of modern social infrastructure around them. Industrial parks are one of the models of such development, but they are not alone. The state must provide additional incentives for the private sector. Parliament is also expected to join the European Year of Skills, which the European Commission announced in 2023. We have to create legislative conditions for the development of the qualification system, we have to turn Ukraine into an investment Mecca. This will not only improve the lives of internally displaced people, but also prepare the basis for the return of millions of Ukrainians from abroad. Dynamic economic growth will guarantee the postwar restoration of our nation. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u12	Heroic glory! Please, Batenko Taras Ivanovich, Party for the Future. Anna's speedboat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, let's thank our PPO forces and international partners, which are the only ways we can hear the surges of air defence work that started this session with you today. I also want to start and tell you about what's going on in our hospitals, especially the frontal ones. On the one hand, I realize there's a war going on, and I understand that for boys, hospital conditions are better than those in trenches. But, dear colleagues, I personally visited our wounded fighters. And when they're in their room, where they're 9 square meters away, 8 beds, the beds are in the corridors, and they're all completely occupied. The internal conditions of the hospital, well, it's a complete horror! When it rained so that you could understand, the water in the room was all over the bone. And these are the front hospitals where our military is treated -- those that defend our sleep with you and our lives with you. We need more than just to claim European values; we need to bring these European values to life. Because you will not find such terrible conditions anywhere in Europe. And everything in medicine right now is being held on the shoulders of doctors, on the shoulders of volunteers who provide hospitals and military hospitals with medicines that provide new equipment, thanks to our international partners who pass on so much. But the hospital conditions themselves, the colleagues, they're really terrible. And there's a lot and a lot of them. So we need to pay more attention than ever and do some repair work. We also have an acute question, and our commission continues to work on the issue of the return of 30,000 to the military. Believe me, when we take this away from the guys who defend us, we claim to be negative. We need to get to the bottom of this as soon as possible. We also need to raise questions about the possibility of our military choosing where to go through treatment if this treatment is provided or paid by a donor or a private hospital willing to accept a fighter for rehabilitation. We have a number of crazy issues that need to be addressed by the military. Among them are many internal issues regarding funding and how finance is distributed in the brigades. It's a very crazy number of references. I think we need to think about creating special commissions that will fully check the financial situation and the use of brigade funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u14	Please, Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyevna, The Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u15	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, you know, I don't want to remind you once again that we have a tenth year of war and a year and a year and a year and a year and a half of full-scale invasion, but not all of them are affected by this war in their families and in their actions. This is especially the kind of thing that is distorted and created by our territorial assembly centers -- those organizations that changed the labels, but didn't change the approach to work. You know, as a person who had something to do with the Odessa area, it was very sad to see, happy for business, but it was very sad to see several thousand people cooking during the same time, including sirens in clubs, but at the same time, there's a disproportionate mobilization of people who don't have internal certain organs that aren't fit for the service that they're just catching on the road, which they're just terrorizing, taking physically into their mobile mobility points. When the door is opened, they go to work and so forth, and so on, more so when business officially shows people, and business and industry take people completely technical, and the issue of armouring does not work at all. So the question I have is, how does the mobilization process itself happen, how do the Defense Forces plan to replenish their ranks with quality human resources to plan, including successful counterattack? I have a request and an appeal to the General Staff. We understand and understand clearly all the problems that are involved. But you know, when a soldier in the Odessa region finds a villa for $4 million in Europe, in Spain, where or when a woman does a business that, in principle, had absolutely nothing to do with it, I have a question: and as this person, in principle, may not just be removed from office, but removed, disposed of or suitable for anything else. It was a great idea to send the boys to the front. Men who don't run 100 meters with their paws, but what are they going to do on the front? And it will always send out those who have battle experience during these 10 years of war. In response to this request, I and the National Security and Defence Committee, and the General Staff, and the Command of the Land Army of Ukraine, have to pay attention and finally start a completely real set of measures to create an electronic register of military-related and those who are in line. has white spots, but is eligible for mobilization, including internally displaced persons, who, we well know, have moved to Western, Central Ukraine, are far away from their homes and do not have a desire to protect themselves. I personally have a very painful history with Odessa and Odessa, and I ask you to take action and put it on the control of the Security and Defence Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u16	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group. Ladies and gentlemen, after this, we are moving on to the agenda. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! The Deputies' Group of Trust unquestionably joins the words of deep gratitude, respect and respect for the address of our soldiers, our defenders, the military forces of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the force of territorial defense, the forces of anti-aircraft defence, those who defend us, our freedom, independence and sovereignty. You can see that the enemy continues to attack the capital, other regions of our state, so today every Ukrainian asks the question when the Russian Federation is responsible, its satellites for the crimes, for the aggression they are committing against our state. And in this context, the "Trust" MP clearly supports the initiative of the President of our State to create a special international tribunal, an institution that is under its jurisdiction to condemn the act of aggression by the Russian Federation against our state. Of course, there is a national legal system and a law enforcement system that gathers all the necessary evidence of these crimes. Today, representatives of the International Criminal Court, other institutions, are working successfully. But I want to say that it is within the special international tribunal that we must condemn the aggression of the Russian Federation. Of course, today we need to talk about what an extremely powerful team of government officials, parliamentarians on the international diplomatic front, worked very hard in this regard. And during this period, many of our colleagues in this room worked very hard between the sessions. I want to express my gratitude because it is by your efforts today both the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and other international institutions that have made extremely important decisions and recognitions of acts of genocide, and a number of others that have already been mentioned today. And I believe that we have the same powerful unity to continue this work and it will have results. Regarding today’s plenary session. There are extremely important bills and what is involved in approving the decisions of the Security and Defence Council, and the Day of Victory and Memory over Nazism is going to be voted by the members of the Trust Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear people's deputies, we're done, we're done, we're done, we're done, we're off to work. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose that a signal vote be held prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, ready to take part in the signal vote? Green button please press. Please take part in the signal vote, Your Honor. [[13:15:35]] For 230 For 230, against 4, hold on to four. Everything as usual. The bloom of democracy is wonderful! Dear colleagues, once again, I appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the course of the plenary session taken in Parliament before an hour after the end of our work. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council is given to you. So let's move on to his consideration. First question. Draft Law on the Day of Memory and Victory over Nazism in World War II 1939 - 45 (Act No. 9268). Dear colleagues, I propose to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. Wait a second. From the procedure? Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko of the procedure. Wait, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u19	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We welcome the fact that finally Parliament’s ninth call came to the point that European integration should include the transition to European Day celebrations of the memory of those who died in World War II. I just want to remind you that for more than a year and a half, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has registered our bill to change the memory of those who died in World War II from May 9 to 8. Unfortunately, this bill has been out of order for more than a year, although it has positive conclusions from the Humanities Committee, just because there are wrong authors, including representatives of the European Solidarity Committee. We welcome the fact that the President's Office is reading our bills, taking them as a basis, but we think they're wrong, considering that they're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u20	Your Honor, I'd like to ask if you're taking the procedure. And I'm just informing the hall, and I thank you for your constructive understanding, and we have a motion to call off the bill you said. That is why today the Conciliation Council decided to consider Bill 9278. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to the vote. I'm making an offer. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I propose to include in the agenda of the day’s session the draft Law on the Day of Remembrance and Victory over Nazism in World War II 1939 - 1945 (registration number 9278). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:18:53]] For 287 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:19:15]] For 249 Thank you, colleagues. Honorable colleagues, under reduced procedure. Feder Volodymyrovich, will you report? Please. The word is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u21	Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished colleagues, introduced a bill on the Day of Memory and Victory over Nazism in World War II 1939 - 45 (registration number 9278) to be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the order of the legislative initiative of President Volodymyr of Ukraine. The bill provides for the establishment in Ukraine of a Day of Remembrance and Victory over Nazism in the Second World War of 1939 - 45, which is celebrated in the entire civilized world on May 8. Thus, within the framework of decolonization, as part of the breakup of the myths formed by the Russian Federation, which is the successor of the Russian and Soviet empire, it is in the context of the celebration of the entire civilized world, the celebration of the Day of Memory and the day of victory over Nazism on May 8th. In Ukraine this issue has matured since the beginning of the war that the Russian Federation solved in 2014. At that time, it was clear that the Russian Federation had been using the myths created for decades about its role in modern history, including the occupation of Ukrainian territories. Therefore, on behalf of the President, I ask you to support this bill and vote in favour of the establishment of the holiday dates that the entire civilized world and Europe celebrates, which together has won the victory over Nazism in World War II. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u22	Thank you. Please give the floor to the head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy of Poturayev Mikiti Ruslanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, indeed, last year our committee proposed a very similar bill, signed by representatives of almost all MP factions and groups. But it should be noted, colleagues, that even last spring, when we had everything that could fly on us, not surprisingly, but, of course, the consequences of many years of Soviet propaganda, many people still thought that this date should be celebrated on May 9. And it's just now that we're seeing from sociological research that these people have almost very few left, but there's still a lot left. And so I would like to point out that it is the President of Ukraine, who trusts more than 80 percent of Ukrainian citizens (we have two institutions with such confidence – the President and the Armed Forces of Ukraine), who introduces this law, which actually unites society, as a person who trusts the whole society, so that we can finally, with all the countries of Europe that have suffered, fought and defeated Nazism in Europe, celebrate this day, not a holiday, but a day of sorrow, a day of memory and a day of reconciliation. I ask for the support of all the deputies who wrote the MP's bill, and I ask for the support of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the discussion, please sign up: two in favour, two in opposition to this bill. Please. Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. Do I get it right? Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u25	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the distinguished national MPs! An important legislative initiative, but unfortunately we didn't really make that decision last year, when the Russian Federation continued to act as the number one terrorist in the world on May 8 and 9. But we think it's better now than later, the Fatherland faction will vote in favour. And it's important that we finally join the initiative when the whole of Europe and the civilized world honors the dead who died during World War II in 1939-1945. This is a sign that we are finally moving away from those Soviet, Soviet traditions that were established by Soviet power. We feel that we should clearly respect and remember how the day of May 8 was the day of victory over the totalitarian regime and the day of victory over fascism. We should remember this especially now that fascism has grown into Soviet-Russian and chauvinism and terrorism. Unfortunately, the history of World War II taught some nothing. It is also important to remember that it is not just a change of date, but we need to change our approach to this day – the day of honoring the memory of those who have died and who have died since then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u26	Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to give you the word of Vetrovitch Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u28	Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u29	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Of course, "European Solidarity" will support the adoption of this bill, the content of which coincides with what we submitted, was registered a year ago, but not only that. The point is that this law will eventually put a dot in the long way that we have come to break away from the Russian conquest. I would like to remind you that in the early 2000s, the initiative to celebrate with Europe the Day of Memory and Victory over Nazism was just May 8 was a public initiative. For the first time in 2014, the initiative began to be celebrated at the national level by national institutions such as the Ministry of Culture and the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory. In March 2015, President Poroshenko signed the decree that May 8 would be the Day of Remembrance and the Day of Atonement. In April 2015, Parliament adopted a package of decommunization laws that were approved. Then it was difficult, and even in 2018 59 percent of Ukrainians considered victory to be a holiday of great importance to themselves. But we worked, we worked to get rid of Russia's influence, especially in this crucial day. As a result, last year, in 2022, only 15 percent of the people who had a significant victory day were still less than 13 percent this year. So we've finally matured to get rid of Russia in one of the key issues to it, the question that is crucial to its ideologies of racism -- the question of periwinkle. So I'm glad we're finally gonna do it. Better late than never. And I'm sure this step is a step towards our victory. I'm sure we still have our victory day on the calendar. And I'm sure refusing to win is what will make our victory and inevitable, and much faster. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u30	Heroic glory! Please, Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u31	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, it's amazing, we're finally setting up historical justice one day at a time, but it's so strange to look at the calendar and see, including on May 1st, the day of work. I don't know what this weekend is, of course, I can thank on behalf of those who plant hunger or sow fields, it's another day to work with gardening and the city and potatoes, including. But nevertheless, I don't understand what it has to do with the history of Ukraine, and the depth of the linkage that is meaningful to almost 80 years of the occupation of the Soviet Union, I think, is quite clear. You know, my colleague Vladimir Viatrovitch was absolutely right. I was saddened to see the number of children from the school on May 9, who had been led to all these monuments of poedony, some half - glued, some sickles and hammers. This includes Plainness, this refers to Atonement, Hersonish, Kyivishte, Cherchishte. Guys, what's going on? I have a question for the Mayors and, of course, for the heads of administration, if anyone hears a report from the Council. Someone is watching the fulfillment of the Law on the Cleaning of These Monuments, this owl? Where do you all go for a gift? To the people who occupied you and murdered you? Yes, perhaps it is time to put a dot in historical justice and to make it clear who was on whose side? Or maybe we'll finally talk about our own lot of history without the invaders wearing both Soviet and German symbols. That's the first one. And the second. You know, we started talking so often today about racism, but until the end of this racism, which is called Bolshevism and Communism, we didn't put a dot in it or show it to the middle finger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, please finish, Boyko Yuri Anatolyovich. Then we go to the vote. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs! Two things are obvious to us today. The first is that we will always celebrate the Day of Victory over Nazism and will always remember our relatives who died in this fight. The second obvious thing today is that we will never again celebrate this and mark this date with a country that attacks us and throws missiles at us and kills our people. In fact, on May 9, we woke up as a result of a rocket attack. Therefore, our group supports the celebration of the Day of Victory over Nazism, supported by the bill introduced by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u34	Thank you. Please, Bacon. And then, colleagues, after that, we'll vote. Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u35	Dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainian people! Of course, it's probably the most necessary day of memory, because we are with you today, the entire Ukrainian society, and we understand very well that war is a huge tragedy. And this 20th - century war, which was actually nothing good for the Ukrainians, did not bring Europe. It brought only death, only great despair, great losses in every family in our country, Ukraine, in the center of Europe. It has brought only destruction throughout Europe. So this day is just a day of memory, a day of mourning and a day of tribulation. And it's a good thing that the whole Ukrainian society, unfortunately, because of this situation, that kind of challenge understands it, and we accept it as a day.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Please take your seats. We agreed to vote it as a basis and as a whole. But we're voting in turn. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the draft Law on the Day of Remembrance and Victory over Nazism in World War II 1939 - 1945 (registration number 9278). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:34:03]] For 316 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical legal amendments the draft Law on the Day of Memory and Victory over Nazism in World War II 1939 - 1945 (registration number 9278). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:34:43]] For 317 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. The next bill is 9333. This is a draft decree approving the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of May 27, 2023 on the application of sectoral special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) to the Islamic Republic of Iran. I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the day's session the Registrar No. 9333. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:35:28]] For 322 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:35:52]] For 279 Decision taken. We agreed to a discussion. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Maxim Vitaliovich Savrasov, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u37	Please pass the word to Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u38	Please, Irina Vasilovna Frez.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, Your Honor, your colleagues! The bill applying sectoral sanctions for special economic and other restrictive measures to the Islamic Republic of Iran is extremely relevant. Because we know that Iran's supply of Shahed Aviation Industries drones to its facilities today is as high as possible. Someone has already calculated that it was only May that 377 Iranian drones were attacked by Ukraine, equivalent to 15 million dollars used by the Russian Federation to bomb civilian neighborhoods, residential blocks, critical infrastructure, and so on. This is a testimony that Tehran is on the side of the Russian Federation and therefore has to bear direct responsibility for what is happening in our state. I would also like to remind you that in January 2020, it was Iran that hit the PS752 passenger plane, which Iran is still trying to escape. So I would like to urge the Hall to support this decision and to approve it accordingly. We are confident that Iran, as a guide to the Russian Federation, must bear direct responsibility for what is happening today in Ukraine. Convinced that Iran's supply of arms to the Russian Federation should be stopped. Islam prohibits violence against innocent people, assault on a person or property. The Qur'an says, "Do not approach the evil deeds." Iran came close to the ugly acts of the Russian Federation, and so he must be responsible. We urge you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u40	Thank you. Please give the word Greenchuk Oksani Anatolyevna, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u41	Please give the word to Alexander Zavávnević.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u42	Please, Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u43	In accordance with the mandate of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence at its meeting on 29 May 2023, the draft decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the application of sectoral special economic and other restrictive measures (Sanctions) to the Islamic Republic of Iran (Registration No. 9333) was considered by the President of Ukraine on 29 May 2023. The draft decree, in accordance with part two of article 5 of the Ukrainian Sanctions Act, proposes to approve the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of May 27, 2023, “On the application of sectoral special economic and other restrictive measures ( sanctions) to the Islamic Republic of Iran”, introduced by Presidential Decree No. 308/2023 of May 27, 2023. This decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine is supported by proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to apply certain sectoral economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) to the Islamic Republic of Iran for 50 years. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Decree No. 9333 be incorporated into the agenda of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth occasion of its consideration of the adoption of the decision as a whole. I'd like your support, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u44	Thank you. Please, Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska. You won't, will you? Oh, out of the way. Please, Samantha Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, you know, it was very interesting to see the decision of the PNB, but there are still the following questions. We still have a lot of questions after our terrorist attack by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. And the question to us, the Supreme Council, is to recognize the Islamic Revolution Guard Corps as a terrorist organization. There are no such discussions here, there are discussions about sanctions. But nevertheless, we have a pulse and a perfectly healthy, almost healthy diplomatic relationship. I understand we don't have an ambassador, but we do have vacancies on the M.E.S.A.'s job site in Iran. That's why I'd like to hear, in fact, the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because, as always, we're running after someone's decision, but a lot of questions with a question mark at a time when tens, hundreds of Shahedes are coming to us from the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus. And of course, I want to remind you of our former defence cooperation with Iran, and it also raises a lot of questions as to where it's at stages and why it's still uncondemned politically, I repeat, the Islamic Revolution Guard Corps, or the diplopia, we're actually going to a normal level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group. Dear colleagues, after which we will proceed to the vote. Oh, it will be. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u47	Dear Sir, my fellow Members, once again, I would like to point out that our MP group "Trust" is undeniably in the position that any country that today supports the aggression of the Russian Federation against our state, in one way or another, is going to help either in the form of arms, or in some other way, to be punished for it. That is why we welcome the establishment of such an institution as the International Special Tribunal. That is why today our law enforcement officers are working together with the International Prosecutor’s Office, gathering all the necessary evidence. This will certainly be used in future court proceedings. But it'll be tomorrow. But we must today take all necessary steps to prevent aggressive, military, and other crimes against our country. So, of course, the state of Iran, which today supplies the necessary equipment, aircraft, possibly other military or civilian equipment for the Russian Federation, must be subject to restrictive sanctions. That's why we're going to vote for it. And I urge that, in the future, it is appropriate and timely to insist on such measures. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u48	Heroic glory! Please, Gregory Nemira, the Fatherland faction. And after that, we vote, dear colleagues. Turn it on from there, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that on May 23rd, last week, a call was made by a hundred world leaders from 47 countries around the world. From Ukraine it was signed by Julia Timoshenko. This appeal refers to the involvement of the leaders of the Iranian regime, including the leadership of the Islamic Revolution Watchdog Corps. As one of the reasons why they are required to be held accountable for crimes against humanity is the supply of drones from Iran to the Russian Federation. I mean, today's decision, even though it's necessary, is too late. The next one is to avoid such a delay for months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. Let's move on to making a decision. Please take your seats. And I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision approving the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 27 May 2023 on the application of sectoral special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) to the Islamic Republic of Iran (registration No. 9333). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[13:45:54]] For 328 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. This unity is what it is. Let's move on. A practitioner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u51	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, we have an outstanding question from the last sitting: Rule 8312. Last session, we continue. From the last session, we continue to pull the cat by the tail, telling the military that we are working on some other drafts to get them back 30,000. They asked for it by the end of the month. The moon has passed. Again, people lose their 30 ’ s. Let's make a decision that should automatically go into the agenda. Sadly, for technical reasons, it is not available today. I really don't want to believe that this process is going to go on again. Please put to the vote the proposal to include in this plenary session this regulation 8312 in order to pay back the extra 30,000 to our military. It doesn't need to be included in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, Dmitri Alexanderovich, I am informing you that the work of the working group has just been completed, and that this bill, which you said, is literally being registered right now. I think that if all political factions and groups agree, and I think it will be, it will be put to the vote in the room tomorrow. That's why I suggest you do it. Dmitri Alexanderovich, we have a decision of the Conciliation Council to act like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u53	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u54	This question is going to be in this period, so it's going to be brought out.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u55	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u56	Dmitri Alexanderovich, thank you. Let's move on. Next bill 6004, 6004-1, 6004-2, 6004-d It is a draft of the Law on the Protection of the Constitutional Rights of Citizens for the Safety and Health of the Environment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest that we consider these issues in a simplified manner, and I ask the National Deputies to vote. [[13:48:29]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-against as agreed, right? Please sign up: two for, two for factions and groups. Please give the word to Black Dmitri Sergiyovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u57	Pass it to Oleg Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u58	Oleg Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u59	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear colleagues, allow me to introduce to you a new long-awaited version of this bill entitled 6004-d on ensuring the constitutional rights of citizens to safety and environmental health. The adoption of this bill will ensure long-awaited and necessary modernisation of the Ukrainian industry and its introduction into European standards by introducing the best available technologies and methods. Such modernisation cannot be considered separately from other commitments to modernize the industry, provided for by Ukraine’s investment and international commitments, the implementation of the Association Agreement, the implementation of the National Emission Reduction Plan, the decarbonization of enterprises and Ukraine’s contribution to Ukraine’s renewed defined contribution to the Paris Agreement. The overall period of transition to the best available technology provided by law for existing objects is 12 years from the date of its adoption. It's not the deferral of periods of modernization, it's the possibility of gradual transition to modern green technologies. For the Ukrainian conscious business, the adoption of the law is, first of all, investment planning on the basis of projected environmental requirements, simplification of business conditions, simplification of permissive procedures through the introduction of one environmental permit. And secondly, these are additional opportunities for a national producer to be present on an equal footing in the European market. At the same time, it is clear that there is a need to develop and implement effective financial mechanisms for investment in enterprise modernisation measures, and this is already provided for by the bill. And for the population of Ukraine, it protects its constitutional rights to preserve public health, minimize environmental damage, and access to environmental information. In addition to winning, the most important challenge for us today is the postwar restoration of our country. And the path proposed by the bill is the way to rebuild modern industry and infrastructure, which is based on green and clean technologies. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, the Cubans, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u61	Mr. Head, please give Irina Heratchenko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u62	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, the armed aggression of the Russian Federation has placed the same environmental problems in particular. And it's obvious that Russian invaders are setting up an ecocid in Ukraine and that the preservation of the environment, its support, needs special attention to Parliament. At the same time, it is obvious that we need to find a healthy balance and to ensure the normal viability of the Ukrainian business, which is no less affected today by armed aggression. Indeed, the bill that we are currently considering is the reincarnation of a project that has already been put into the hall several times has been discussed. It is somewhat improved, although our political power sees some disagreements in this bill, including European practice. First of all, we need more openness to our permits for public organizations. Our first-reading faction will support this bill in order to be able to make the second very clear, for example, what will be allowed in these permits, which it refers to, how they should be very clearly fixed there. But in general, we believe that this attention of the Hall, which today is and unites us on international sites to the topic of illegal deportation of Ukrainian children, to the need to create an international tribunal against the Gulf regime, should be the same on the subject of ecology. Because the ethnocid set up by the Russian Federation against Ukraine needs more attention both in the session hall and outside, in order to ensure that Putin and his gang, the Russian Federation, are fully responsible for the damage to the Ukrainian environment and Ukrainian entrepreneurship. Please support the first reading, although the bill needs further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u64	Please, Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u65	Ask for the word Eutuska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u66	Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, from the place. Turn on Eutus from the spot, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u67	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. My colleagues have already talked about what this draft legal act is about about ecology, about environmental impact. And the challenges that we have today, which we've heard from previous speakers, obviously can't help but have an environmental impact. I'll even say that these rascals, this racist aggressive strategy that's waging war against our state, they don't even take their 200s out of the field, they don't want to take them away, and of course they can be dirty things. There are a number of good, positive things in this bill. And we've already talked about that if there's a sign that this is a Euro-Integration Bill, of course there should be consensus in the room. But in fact, if there are positive things in one part of this act, there is another part that contradicts and raises huge questions from the point of view there before the other requirements of the European Union are violated. I can even read some of them. Yes, paragraph 4 of article 29 provides that operators who intend to withdraw from the operation shall, when applying for an integrated permit, specify the time limit for their operation and assess that the achievement of the standards of marginally permissible discards determined by these methodologies. This will result in a disproportionately high cost of produce compared to environmental benefits. And I also want to say that we're going to have to look at our energy objects after the war. In this context, we must too.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u68	Thank you. Please, Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, "Trust". Dear colleagues, after that we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine, dear Ukrainians! Of course, at this time when the racist, Kremlin regime is creating a real genocide against the Ukrainian people, when the racist regime is making an ecocidal against Ukrainian nature, destroying our forests, destroying Ukrainian fields, destroying Ukrainian nature, we still want to avoid retreating and moving in the direction of our nation towards Europe. And let our industry also move towards Europe. So we're in favour of reducing industrial discards, we're in favour of being environmentally clean, correct technologies introduced into industry. And actually, this Euro-Integration Bill, thanks to the heavy titanium work of the profile environmental committee, the profile ministry, is still in the room today and the introduction of this integrated permit with these best, actually available technologies, and this is equality, and correctness for all businesses in Ukraine. And I want to believe that this is a step that we are actually moving towards this path that we have chosen Europe. And soon after our victory, businesses will actually have an additional deadline to provide themselves with appropriate environmental technologies and less pollution of our Ukrainian nature. Accordingly, we will take care of the health of our Ukrainians. I urge everyone to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Please prepare yourself for making a decision. We're preparing to make a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, on the basis of the Committee's proposals, the draft Law on the Protection of the Constitutional Rights of Citizens for the Safe Life and Health of the Environment (registration No. 6004-d). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:58:54]] For 301 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next question is 8401. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian laws on the characteristics of taxation during the war period. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:59:27]] For 251 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:59:47]] For 244 Decision taken. I invite the Minister of Finance of Ukraine Sergei Mikhailovich Marchenka. Please, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u71	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. It's good to see you. I think that the bill that we are about to consider is extremely important. He defines many things that generally shape the idea of the power of the Supreme Council, the government, to carry out its obligations. I want to say that this is about the return of prewar tax standards that existed until February 24, 2022. We believe that the business that suffered during the beginning of the military state could now adapt. We have all the signals that business is now more adapted, there's tax pay. At the same time, the challenges that remain before the government of Ukraine have not yet been resolved. You all understand that the main and key task is to fill the budget, is to fill the budget with the aim of financing the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other forms of the security and defence sector. We can only form our budget on taxes. So Bill 8401 provides for the return of the single tax to pre-war taxes, the return of time periods and other necessary things that will allow us to increase the budget's income by 10 billion dollars by the end of the year. The price of the question is 1.5 billion dollars a month. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u72	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. Please invite the chairman of the committee, Danilo Alexandrovich Getmantsev, to participate in the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u73	Dear friends, a year ago, a little over a year ago, we made a two-percent tax decision with you in this room. It was March of last year, remember those times. Including this decision, we managed to get the economy out of the state of numbness that it was in in March last year. Ukraine's economy as a result of the war, the worst war since 45, lost less than 30 percent in Europe, including this decision. And this year we already have a forecast plus 2 percent of GDP. At the same time, times are changing, military spending is increasing, additional brigades are forming. We're planning and already making our move. This law is going to bring in the budget plus 10 billion. In addition, the system played two percent of its role. This system is not in line with the normal system of taxation that is accepted in the EU and to which we go, and with which we will unify our legislation, because there cannot be a tax on turnover and taxes on the added value and other taxes of the normal system within the same system. And actually this bill is directly foreseen by the IMF memorandum. From this, the adoption of this bill has helped our country. We spend every penny of our taxes on the army, everything else we finance at the expense of our partners. And it's in accordance with this bill that we're going to release these rules from the front of the territory. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u74	Thank you, Danilo Alexandrovich. Please sign up for the performance: two for, two for the opposite. Cuba's Stepan Ivanovich, "European Solidarity". Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, let's put all the dots above the "and" to understand the purpose and essence of this bill. Regrettably, even an uncomfortable talk has just been given by reporters that this bill will provide an additional 10 billion dollars a year. Please tell me, is this due to the cancellation of the two percent special rate or the fines and all the checks that you're going to be oppressing the business that is the source of our military support right now? Do you think there's any extra money in the business that he's hiding and not paying now? Yes, no, on the contrary, business spends every opportunity in order not only to pay in the budget but also directly to buy goods, to do all the work for the Armed Forces. It's embarrassing to even hear what you're about to make someone pay extra. And the fines? Shamefully, even in January, this bill was passed, but in these months, there was no compromise, taking into account the way the business is now doing business, thinking about how to apply sanctions or whether they should be returned at all. What about actually finding a dialogue between business and tax? Why did the tax return to those usurper methods of work now, even on the basis of standards that allowed them to carry out a number of tests? Say, please, tax is now carrying out a huge series of tests, have you heard at least one thought that it is operating within and within the limits of the law? No, it's not. It's the barbaric methods that we won't let go of. And remember, please, that it is the investment climate in Ukraine that will be decisive when Ukraine accepts the European Union. Think about it, think not only of the Ukrainian business, but of all the investors who will see the real face of our tax system.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u76	The word is given to Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, it is very easy to vote on popular bills, and we did so, including at the beginning of the war. It was you and I who gave this discount of 2 percent, which lasted almost a year and a half. It was during quarantine and in the beginning of the war that we accepted moratoriums for checks, and it was we who stopped the fines. Now this bill is not popular, and I really understand a lot of people who criticize it. But let's face it, this bill was in a memorandum with the IMF. It wasn't just an item in the memo, it was a pre-reaction. Ukraine has now received $2.7 billion, and the entire program is linked to it. So all those who want to criticize, to say that they don't need it, let's not accept it, is a very simple proposition. Okay, then please count from other sources the state's 115 billion dollars that we have following the IMF program. And once you do, you can say whether it's a good bill or a bad bill. I'll file the papers for him myself. I believe that some of the norms that apply especially to war-stricken and war-stricken territories need to be freed from these checks. And, believe me, even at the committee level, we're going to be doing this parliamentary control so that there's no exaggeration with the punitive functions of some of the fiscal organs. But we have no choice but to accept this bill. We have to accept it because once again I repeat, under these bills these letters, under these pages Ukraine has already received money. If we want to avoid a financial gap, we have to vote at least on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u78	Please, Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, after that we will vote. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Please let me through, colleague. Dear colleagues, after this, please prepare. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u79	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we, our team, always support the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance in all wise decisions, because we understand that the budget needs to be filled today. There's no doubt about it. But in this situation, we have to think about what remains of business in Ukraine are still working. Remnants! You can see the terrible conditions in which they work today. And this law solves a few issues that essentially put a dot at the job and the existence of tens of thousands of our enterprises. There are three things here that are not acceptable. The first is that FOPs are getting rid of the tax system for 2 percent of the circulation. That means they're going to go into the shadows and we're not going to have that 2 percent. The other one. This is where all the tests are being performed. And we have 80 verification structures in the country. If they come in now, they're going to come in with fines on this business, we're not going to make it to the end of the war, we're not going to have any taxpayers left. Third, that's important. There will be a special tax compensation procedure for the added cost, where the value added tax will be converted into 20 percent of the circulation tax. What do you want? And the last third. Taxes will be collected from tax companies. They're going to be in the business of damage, and they're going to be taking taxes. I want to tell you, this is a grave for the remains of our entrepreneurial structures in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] What do you want? Oh, from the faction? Please, Danilo the Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, in fact, we've only heard a few populist speeches about this bill, it's no wonder for our Parliament, we often hear populist speeches. And I want to remind my colleagues in this context that we are the only country in the world, the only country in world economic history that has not raised taxes in war, but reduced taxes. She didn't raise taxes, she cut taxes. And to this day, we are talking about restoring the peaceful state, the peaceful rules, their enforcement. And I honestly don't know what we can talk about here when we're talking about the existence of a 2 percent tax now, and it's coming back to 5 percent. Is that what you trade for in front of those people in the trenches? It's a shame to listen to these populists. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, we have discussed this bill. I ask the National Deputies to take their seats and prepare for the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Honorary colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and other laws relating to the features of taxation during the period of military status (registration number 8401). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[14:14:13]] For 227 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. 9107 with the '1' badge is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving bank withdrawal under military conditions. This is re-reading, 9107-1. We agreed that there would be 3 waves -- Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko and we vote. Right? Who else? Oh, Nina Petrovna will be. I'm sorry, I didn't write it. Okay. First we give Julius Volodymyrna, because I am. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then let's get out of the procedure, then Julia Volodymyrna, yes, please. Are you out of procedure too, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Okay, let's do the procedure first. Nina Yuzanin, please. Danilo Alexandrovich, take your place.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u83	Dear Mr. Head, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that just when the previous draft of Law 8401 was reported, Mr. Chairman of the Committee spoke, not on behalf of the committee, but on his own. And so the second time you gave him a closing word, it was a violation of the Rules. Or let the chairman of the committee read out the committee's decision, as it should be done and not speak of itself, not to give an assessment and analysis, or it would be a double speech that is absolutely not provided for by the Supreme Council's Rules of Work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u84	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, as you've seen, I've been out, I haven't heard Danil Alexanderovich's first performance. But when I arrived, I saw that the Servant of the People didn't take the floor, so Danilo Alexanderovich took this one minute as the Servant of the People and took the floor. So I can't either confirm it or deny it, but I'm asking the heads of the committees or the people who present the bills, if this was the stage, to speak on behalf of the committees. Thank you. Please, Brainy. Oh, we give the line, right? Will you, Danilo Alexanderovich? Out of the way. Oh, well, all right, he won't. Please, Razumkov, then Julia Volodymyr. Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u85	Ruslan Alexiyovich, we have about 30 rights: two axles from Shpak and other axles I ask to replace for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u86	Okay. But come on, since I've already announced Julia Volodymyrna, Julia Volodymyrna, then two amendments to the Shpaks. Wait a second. All right, look, respectable colleagues, then, finalizing. Three minutes -- Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, then three minutes -- Dmitri Alexanderovich, then Nina Petrovna -- two minutes. Yeah? And after that, Pack two amendments, and we vote in favour of the bill. Do you have a deal, colleagues? Please, 3 minutes, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u87	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in principle, this bill to clean up the Russian founders of our Ukrainian banks. An absolutely correct bill, everything about the Russian founders of the Ukrainian banks, needs to be cleaned up. But there was one thing in this law that our team could not agree with. So systems banks are nationalized if they have Russian founders -- that's absolutely right, small banks, not systems that have Russian founders -- are eliminated -- that's absolutely right. But in this law, there was a rule that predicted that our Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainians, if they had deposits, those banks that have Russian founders, if this bank is eliminated, had no right to compensation from the Deposit Guarantee Fund. And it says here that we just have to wait for the end of the war, then wait for Russian reparations, and then pay the Ukrainians damages in the destroyed pro-Russian banks in Ukraine. What did our team fight and accomplish? We've reached a compromise, and in this law we've corrected that position. And now that a bank that has Russian founders is eliminated, Ukrainian citizens who have deposits or deposits or deposits there will not lose their property or their money. And the Deposit Guarantee Fund will compensate them for all damages as well as for other situations involving bank withdrawals in Ukraine from the market. So we've been heard, it's taken into account, and that's why our team is calling for a vote in favour of this law. Because, in fact, from the Ukrainian market, from the Ukrainian banking system, to remove the founders who represent the aggressor country, it had to be done another year and a half ago, well, that's a good thing that we have now. That's why our team is voting in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u88	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Please, 3 minutes -- Reason, then 2 minutes -- Eugene, then two amendments to the Shpaks, and then we vote. Come on out.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u89	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, this bill has, fortunately, not been voted on last time and much has been rectified. Many foolish things have been cleaned up for a second reading, and this proves on the other hand what the Council can do when it is, when there is desire and when there is understanding why it is done. Because for the first time, a lot of "hotels" were put in there, and they put in mechanisms for manipulation, not for real work. But I would now like to talk about the salaries of the military, using what is also the minister of finance in the hall. We're ashamed of you. I would like to address every national MP sitting in this room who voted in favour of the 2023 budget. Here's the answer. The Ukrainian Ministry of Defense, by voting for the budget, you funded only 39 percent. Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance knew in November last year that it would pay $30,000 in military salaries in November of last year. When they say it's a request from the military to clean up 30,000, it's not true. Many people drive, communicate with our supporters, and know that they are in dire need of these funds. I ask you very much to return the normal payments to our defenders. To enact laws so that it will not be shameful in front of those who defend our state. It's very good when they tell us today what's happening at the expense of the state budget. And when the budget was adopted in November, why didn't anyone say from this rostrum that they were taking back military payments, that our defenders would not get what the President had promised them at the beginning of the war? Unfortunately, no one is interested in the answers today, either in this room or in the government’s bed. Because it's very good and very convenient for a state to do that when it's possible to take a protector and he can't say anything. I ask you very much to make a decision so that you do not feel ashamed in front of those who defend our country. Above all, we do not have to answer them to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, it's 2 minutes now, Eugene Nina Petrovna. And then two amendments to Shpak, 25th and 48th. And let's go to the vote. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, just one of the speakers from the "ministers of the people" has called the populists of those who express their own opinion that doesn't match his thinking. Unfortunately, this exists in this Parliament. And I'm ashamed of this person who doesn't even allow anyone else to think and speak. As for this project, he would have to respond and thank you for not voting in favour of this draft law on the second reading of the first reading. Because the discretions that were contained here have actually rectified. And even though even a lot of the experts there have been charged, I don't know what kind of people there are to write down everything negative about "European solidarity," they now understand why we didn't vote and how well the rules are spelled out. Because even if the bill had been voted on last time, it would have been impossible for the Delta Bank to apply it to Sense Bank, because this mistake is now being corrected. This is the first time. Secondly, it is really very important that these non-systemically important banks, which were to immediately dispose of and dispose of activities in the near future, are removed from the mandatory operation of this law. So I think that in our constructive, constructive position, we've made the top bank financial system safe. This is the right decision: we save the financial system. So please listen to your colleagues, even if they say other things to you. Shame on those who voted in favour of the previous law! Shame on the whole business community! That's it. So make a decision and think ahead of time about what you are doing, so that it is not shy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, please National MP Shpak, 25th and 48th Amendments. Will you represent yourself one by one, Mrs. Love? Please, 25 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u93	Although 25th and 28th revisions, they relate to each other. Nevertheless, the law, it is necessary, must be supported, voted. But I'm going to focus on two of these things that are similar to each other, but they needed to be supported. First of all, colleagues, we should not blame ordinary businesses and Ukrainian citizens who have opened bank deposits in these institutions. Not knowing that in the future, the bank's investors are being sanctioned. The right is to grant compensation to the bank's conscientious investors not only at the expense of the aggressor State but also at the expense of nationalizing the assets of the subordinate, direct or indirect owner of the bank. So this expands our guarantees that these compensations will be given to investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u94	I've got one detail, and it's the 25 and the 48, right? Because you said 28th, 28th is Hero. 25 and 48 are correct. Now we're talking about the 25th amendment. Please give the committee a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u95	You probably didn't hear the debate that we had with one of the factions of Parliament. Julia Volodymyrna gave a clear explanation. The law explicitly states that in no way does it extend to the rights of investors — natural persons. They are secured according to the mechanism that we adopted with you a year ago, by securing all the investments that are today, by a hundred percent of their amount. Therefore, there is no need to protect what is already protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u96	Thank you. Are you insisting on making this amendment? Can we not put it? I didn't hear. You insist, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u97	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u98	Please correct the 25th amendment of Shpak and colleagues. Dear friends, you heard the author's position, you heard the committee's position. So please vote for the 25th amendment. [[14:27:40]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 48th, right? Please, Shpak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u99	48 revisions, similar to the same one. The fact is that honest investors should have an effective mechanism to protect their rights in order to get compensation for their deposits as quickly as possible and in the first place without waiting for a certain bright future accordingly. Thus, the law also guarantees a similar guarantee at the expense of other assets for the compensation of deposits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u100	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u101	The committee's position is unchanged. This has already been taken into account and is already guaranteed. Let us be more careful when studying the text of the bill for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, so I put 48 amendments to the authorship of Shpak and colleagues. You heard the position of both the author and the committee. So please identify and vote. [[14:28:54]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've been through all the repairs, we've all made statements. So I'm moving on to making a decision. Please be prepared. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving bank withdrawal under the terms of the martial law (registration number of Bill 9107-1) in a re-second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:29:45]] For 305 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next two bills we agreed to vote without discussion are 9273 and 8032. So prepare for the vote immediately. 9273. I propose to accept, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on certain questions of implementation in 2023 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the Best Participants in the External Independent Assessment of Learning Results on the basis of Full General Secondary Education (registration No. 9273). Ready to vote? And so, on the basis of the necessary technical and legal amendments, 9273. Please vote. It's a decree, yes. [[14:30:54]] For 322 Decision taken. The next bill 8032 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Retirement for Special Credits to Ukraine (for fighters for Ukraine's independence in the 20th century). Therefore, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine (for fighters for Ukraine's Independence in the 20th Century) (registration No. 8032). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:31:41]] For 313 Decision taken. Next 0206. This is a draft law on the adoption of the Statute of the Council of Europe Development Bank and the accession to the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:32:15]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two in favour, two in favour. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u103	Dear Mr. Head, please give the floor to Mrs. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u104	Please, Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, of course, "European Solidarity" will support Ukraine's accession to the Council of Europe Bank and this is another way for us to have the help of a free world. But I want to remind you that we are, indeed, always counting on the free world and the countries of the free world to help us and to stand with us in this fight. And the Council of Europe is one of those institutions where, in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, there is a Ukrainian delegation, a multi-fractional, multi-political Ukrainian delegation from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But what is happening? We see that, unfortunately, the rules in the Ukrainian Supreme Council are not all alike, and we see that those deputies, even if they are doing good international work, but with which the disagreeable leadership of Parliament, or perhaps the leadership of the country, is blocking the way to direct duties in the Council of Europe, in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Thus, our colleague Alexia Hotcharenko was not admitted as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to three missions in the exercise of his powers as a member of the Council of Europe. It's unacceptable, it's a crime, it has to be stopped. We express condemnation and strong protest against such actions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leadership of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe appealed to the Ukrainian Parliament to stop violating democratic norms. And we hope that the country that bleeds for its choice today, because it wants to be democratic and European, will still live up to all the standards, including the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, since the leadership of the Supreme Council has been mentioned, and I am referring to the leadership of the Supreme Council, I am simply informing you, my fellow Members, in particular, about some of the questions about the order of deployment. You know that deployments are given to national deputies according to the Shipment Regulations and that in 10 days a person is required to make an application. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Let's take it. Wait a second, I heard your position, and now I'm showing you what I have with my scans. Your request for departure from the 9th arrived at 09.05 at 2:30 p.m. Positions, orders. Once again, you can say anything, I'll show you, and the order came in on the 10th. So, dear fellows, let's start with order and rules in order to keep them. Thank you. Let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, thank you. Let's move on. Please, Zarsky. Maxim Valentinovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u107	A request to pass on the word to Mezentsa Maria.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u108	Please, Maria Sergiyevna Mezenceva.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u109	Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Good afternoon, dear fellows! Really. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't speak, I apologize. Dear colleagues, today is a very important procedural day, but not all of us in fact, and not all of us in Ukraine knew that in an institution that deals with human rights, there is a financially serious structure -- it's called the Bank of Reconstruction of the Council of Europe. Now, as a result of your vote, our vote with you can become 43 member states of this institution. Why does Ukraine need this? On very convenient, zero-almost entry conditions, so we're not paying an additional contribution if you ask what the budget costs here are, they're almost zero, we're going to have access to serious finances that will help restore Ukraine's infrastructure, damaged homes and homes, multi-story buildings, renewable energy infrastructure, that's all that destroys the Russian Federation for months, and armed aggression by the RF against the country of Ukraine. I stress that a special session of the bank will take place on June 8th in Strasbourg. We were able to get to know and discuss this positive idea with the bank’s head. He looks forward to this vote. We thank President Zelenski for his prompt introduction of the draft law to the Supreme Council. Procedurally, and this will be confirmed by a government representative, procedurally all the conditions have been met. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support me. This is true of every war crime, every Ukrainian family. We will be able to obtain additional funding at the expense of the Council of Europe bank for the restoration of our state. Please support, we want to see the constitutional majority on the screen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u110	Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, I think from the point of view of the struggle for Ukraine's integration into Europe, ratification and accession to the relevant protocol will only contribute to this process. So we now have to clearly identify ourselves, support the appropriate initiative and approve the relevant protocol and join it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, we have concluded a heated discussion. I would like to remind you that we are considering the draft Law on the Adoption of the Statute of the Council of Europe Development Bank and its accession to the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe (Registration No. 0206). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Now, just a second, let the colleagues gather. Who? Oh, please, Grigory Mikhailovich Nemira. Restlessness, please. I can't see. Please, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u113	Thank you, Mr. Head. For most colleagues, this is probably new information, because the Council of Europe is a traditional organization that deals with human rights and democracy. What's in the Council of Europe, it turns out, is the Development Bank, I think most of the colleagues didn't know. So now we'll know. But what I'm trying to say is that we don't have to put too much hope, too, it's a very modest institution, we don't have to have too many expectations. And the real problem that exists, as with Ukraine and the World Bank, with other international financial institutions, is that even those funds are sometimes large, sometimes small, they don't go for projects that we, when we approve them, say it's manna heavenly. There will be no heavenly manna, and this first challenge of government is to use money if and when they come to the goals that other colleagues have been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this bill, we are preparing for a decision. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law on the Adoption of the Statute of the Development Bank of the Council of Europe and the accession of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe (Registration No. 0206). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:42:43]] For 296 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next we agreed without discussion is 0202, draft law. Dear colleagues, the situation has changed a little bit. So that's why I'm announcing the issue, a draft law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on financial support for the supply project AT "Ukrzaliznica" (registration No. 0202). I understand that there was an agreement that only Hotcharenko would take the floor and vote. Please. Oh, yes. Well, then, my friends, let's do it the way we do it. I don't understand anything then. Dear colleagues, there is a desire in other factions to speak, and I ask if, as agreed, only Honcharenko. Please, Hotcharyenko and we vote. Please. Dear colleagues, well, we're holding the Conciliation Council for something, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u115	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends! The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, I ask you, we may have different relationships, there may be different things there, but we don't have to lie to each other. You know, I know perfectly well that I applied for the 21st of April. You know perfectly well that your deputy, Mr. Kornierko, did not sign me, did not post his visa. When there's no deputy head visa, it doesn't go to you, formally. But I gave it all up just in time. Others say. It's very important that we personally, Mr. Head, met on May 3rd, along with the delegation of Ukraine to Paris, there was a meeting, there were many deputies. And I said to you there on May 3rd that I have one day to sign my conference orders. You didn't do it, and it's true, and you don't have to lie, and you don't have to lie on the national marathon. I realize I'm never gonna get invited to a national marathon, but it's not like I'm gonna be there. By the way, if there's a conscience in the national marathon, let me tell you how it was. I'm done. I've always worked abroad for the state, only for the state, only for the state, and I'll keep doing that. Please don't embarrass the country. No one added that today, President PARJE wrote letters to the Supreme Council as Ukraine violated its obligations and violated its obligations. Member States of the Council of Europe. That's not the way it should be, we don't have to embarrass a country that we never have a dispute with you, we have to respect the country and our flag and work for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u116	Thank you. Since you called me Alexia, because you called me, I also want to answer you. First. I don't know what relationship you're talking about between me and you. There's no relationship between you and me except professional. The other one. As far as I'm concerned, you can speak for five more minutes when you apply. I can give you this piece of paper, it says here that you filed an eighty-eight. Look, you can talk as many times as you want. And the third. The only thing I agree with you is that all over the country, and it's the work of each of us to act on the only team, the name of this team, Ukraine. Let's do that and put a dot on that. Please, thank you, dear colleagues. Let's move on to making a decision. I'll remind you what kind of bill we're considering. We are considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on financial support for the supply project AT "Urzaliznica". I therefore propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on financial support for the provision of AT lines "Ukrzaliznica" (registration No. 0202). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:47:48]] For 303 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next, we agreed, no discussion. So I'm going to make a proposition right now, it's 0199. Adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Minamata Convention on Mercury (registration No. 0199). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:48:30.]] For 299 Decision taken. Next, we agreed without discussion, it's 0196. Therefore, I immediately propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on guarantees of the rights of citizens in the area of pension insurance (registration No. 0196). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:49:12]] For 301 Decision taken. Next bill under discussion. This is the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy and Parliaments of its member States (registration number 9262). I'm proposing to include this draft decision in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:49:44]] For 282 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:50:06]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, reporter, will you? Please, National Deputy Jaremenko Bogdan Vasilovich. After this: two in favour, two in favor, and we vote against. Please, Bogdan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u117	Bogdan Jaremenko, faction of the political party "Serve of the People." Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy at its meeting on May 1, 2023, discussed the participation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of the Orthodox Republic in accordance with Ukraine’s national interests and decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision that we are currently considering. The purpose of the decision is to approve and refer it to parliaments and member states of the MAP, as well as to initiate an appeal by the Government of Ukraine to the Government of the Greek Republic for the purpose of not admitting persons for whom sanctions have been imposed by the European Union, to participate in the 30th Jubilee General Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of the Orthodox Republic, which will take place in the city of Halkidiki on 29 June-3 July this year, and to develop a communication strategy by the Government of Ukraine aimed at countering threats to freedom of conscience, religion and informing the world community about the observance of international principles of religious freedom in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, it's not about churches, it's not about religion, it's not about faith. It is our collective decision that representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine refuse not only to negotiate, to consult, but also to sit in one room with those representatives of the so-called Duma of the Russian Federation who voted in favour of killing our children in order to destroy our cities in order to destroy Ukraine. One of the committees of this organization is headed by Zatulin, the president of this organization is no-name Gabrielov, who also supported the decision on the war against Ukraine. We cannot participate in this. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u118	Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please give the floor to the national deputy of Zarski Maksim Valentinovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u119	Request to proceed to supporting the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u120	It's a beautiful decision. Thank you. Please give the floor to national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u121	In this very important discussion, please pass the word to Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u122	Samantha Anatoly, please. It will be from the place, please turn it on from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, you know, it's just the right thing to do and the right thing to do. But I have a question and an appeal to all the factions' heads, especially the majority faction, about your support for the introduction of an RPC ban bill in this room, which is actually an agency network of the FSB. This is what the whole of Ukraine has been waiting for, and this is what every district and district council has voted to do with calling on Mr. Speaker and taking him to the hall. And it's a shame that we're addressing the Inter-Parliamentary Orthodox Union today, when we ourselves can't evaluate either the political or the legal or any other of these offices, which is actually one of the pillars of the Russian army. What's more, I think it's time for us to recognize the RPC as a terrorist organization that operates as widely as possible. And what happened in Hmelnicki, I remember very well the reaction, the minimal reaction of our colleagues from the hall, when the soldier boy was beaten, and what happened then, in fact, with the church and the indignation of the city of Hmelnicki, when all the communities quickly crossed over to the Orthodox Church of Ukraine. But such things are unacceptable. What the Supreme Council is doing today is outside this issue, so go to your districts and see how people react and what they say about what is going on in the RPC so far, with the continued non-single of the dead and the end of mass literature to undermine the foundations of national security and defence. So I have a question for the speaker and for all the factions: when will your factions be supported by voting as a minimum of three bills that are ready to be introduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u124	Thank you. Samantha Anatolyevna, look, well, I'm tired of explaining to everyone that the speaker doesn't form the order of the day. For this, there is an organ such as the Conciliation Council. And so, please, I think it's important that your representatives put it on the Conciliation Council, and this is a matter that needs to be resolved. My position you know, I've made it very clear about all of these issues. And you can also see my vote by the results when this bill is voted on. Don't worry, it'll be green. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next, please, we have Eugene Nina Petrovna. And after that, I'm asking you to invite the national MPs into the hall so I can get to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u125	Please pass the word to Rostislav Mikolaiovich Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u126	Please, Rostislav Mikolaiovich Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u127	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, you know, the Russian Church is as much a part of Russian aggression as the Russian army. So, of course, on all fronts and playgrounds, we have to prove this to be thought and position. We absolutely support, we will vote in favour of what has been proposed from the rostrum. But I would like to point out that even on the Conciliation Council, decisions are made there. So I'm talking to my colleagues from most of them to put it into the hall, to support this issue both on the Conciliation Council and in the Hall, about those bills that will finally shut down the Fifth Column in Ukraine, the Moscow Patriarchate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who would like to make a statement on this matter? Then I ask you to invite the people's deputies to the hall to vote in favour of this issue. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Then I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of the Orthodox Republic and the parliaments of its member States (registration No. 9262). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please prepare. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:57:50]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next 9331 is a draft decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's statement on the need for a hard and uncompromising fight against corruption in the justice system. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. Uncompromising -- that's what I said. Once again, the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for a hard and uncompromising fight against corruption in the justice system. [[14:58:25]] For 260 Decision taken. Next. We're voting for inclusion in the agenda. They're just asking me to repeat my name. So what I'm saying is, did I make a mistake in my name, or did anyone just have fun with their name? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[14:59:13]] For 217 Decision taken. Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy of Maslova Denis Vejacheslavovich, he's both from the authors and as the author, and from the committee, so give me four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u129	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, there is a full - scale war against our Ukraine for more than a year. During this time, many of our people have suffered, lost the most expensive, and continued to lose. You know, in times of war, the issue of justice and injustice is particularly acute. It is the judicial branch of government that should be the one that ensures justice in society. The Ukrainian State has taken unprecedented steps in the implementation of judicial reform, working closely with our international partners. Therefore, we cannot allow ourselves to be dragged down, hindered by such cases as did occur in the Supreme Court. The entire judiciary needs to understand clearly that the country has changed and continues to change. Those who want to work properly and honestly will do so under normal conditions, who have not yet understood it, will be excluded from the benches of the judicial corps, those on whom there is reason will be called to account. This statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine strongly condemns the disgraceful case that took place in the Supreme Court, claiming the absolute inadmissibility of cases where the head of the highest court in the system of the Ukrainian judiciary may be involved in acts of corruption. I emphasize the need for a quick and effective and, importantly, public investigation of the matter. Re-establish, encourage, review by the Council of Justice of Disciplinary Complaints, consider the possibility of introducing a periodic assessment of the integrity of judges, consider thoroughly improving the selection procedures for the position of judges and access to the profession of the judge, complete the assessment of the appropriateness of the positions held for all judges, examine the question of increasing responsibility for committing corruption in the justice system. I refer to the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for immediate consideration by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the issue of acts of corruption and other violations of the law by the representatives of the judiciary in view of the need for national security and the interests of Ukraine. The Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that a draft decision be included in the agenda of the current session, as a result of a first reading review of the draft decision on the basis and as a whole, and to entrust the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, to carry out technical and legal work and editorial work. And finally, I'm addressing every conscious national MP who won't be able to and won't tolerate acts of corruption especially during the war, anyone who understands what the word and the content of the word "justice" is, I urge each of you to support the draft of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u130	Thank you, Dennis Vejacheslavovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two for, to discuss this draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council. The word is given to Vladimir Viktorovich Moroz, the MP's "Delivery of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u131	Pass the word, please, Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u132	Please, Chewchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, I was surprised to hear such a pompous speech by the head of the committee. This reform that you and I have adopted (and attention, colleagues, this applies to everyone!), we have separated the Supreme Council from the judicial branch of power. The Supreme Council had previously appointed judges somewhere in this courtroom. Now there is no such thing as parliamentary control, control of the Supreme Council, committees and others as to the impact on the judicial branch of power. So this institution of self-government, which is enshrined in the Constitution, oriment, has proved to be worthless. And if you don't do what contests and commissions and all that until there's a damocles sword over the judges of the Supreme Council, there won't be anything good and fair in the courts. We support this statement, but I think we need to go back and reverse the reform that Veendiktov has introduced to us in isolation from the judicial branch of the Supreme Council. This is wrong and the time has shown it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u134	Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina, "European Solidarity" faction. Pottery, right, I get it?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u135	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Friends, such harsh words are harsh, uncompromising. I agree. Less words, more business. How much a country can look at this disgrace, these Tandirs, this hatred that has crushed, has killed a national guard, a young boy! He had three children who were orphaned. And there's something wrong with him now, he's not driving, he doesn't know, he hasn't seen. Well, it just pisses off the whole community! When it comes to a military, when it comes to keeping Chervinsky in the S.I.A., when it comes to condemning a person who defends the state, here are the good guys, here's our justice fast, maybe it's smart. And Tandir, like that, is Tandir, he's the whole judge. And this one sits in the caste and helps and saves. It is a disgrace that must be stopped once and for all. Shame! This Tandiri is being destroyed, the future of Ukraine is being destroyed, the confidence of the Ukrainians in power is being destroyed, the confidence of the Ukrainians in the state in general is being destroyed, because that is not the case. And the Head of the Supreme Court, who's being bribed at $2.7 million when the whole couch is loaded with dollars, when the kids today at our Goncharenko Center are bringing in the bastard, are being smashed up to get a military car to get an anti-drunk rifle. And that's sitting on the couch with the dollars in it, and that's our Chief Justice. Guys, this has to be stopped. We can't print these decrees, just three months from now, Tandir's going to do something again -- and a new decision. No! No! Just the verdicts, just the convictions. That's when they give this Tandir the 15 years he deserves, then it'll be a real deal, and everything else will be a conversation. It's time to bring it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u136	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u137	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, of course, the determination and statement that is being prepared is more political, and we understand that. And the question is not who will make a louder or louder statement from this rostrum in the fight against corruption and so forth. There is now a fully-worked legislative framework that allows the case to be investigated, to go to trial, to pass judgment, and to ensure that the guilty receive the punishment they deserve absolutely. Questions. Here's what I'd like to point out. During our great international despondency, when we met with representatives of the United States Congress, it was a great delegation, the main thing they were talking about, and the main requirements they put forward were to complete judicial reform. Today is whether the United States and their investors are potential, or whether it is any other country that will be ready after the war to come to us with its big investment projects, any country wants to protect its business representatives, for those who are willing to invest in Ukraine. Once again, this is a serious challenge for us today. So there's a clear plan for the completion of the judicial reform, and everyone knows it, and the profile committee is working on it. Let's finish making all the necessary changes and really do everything we can to make sure that the judicial branch of power works honestly, decently, instills respect and trust in all domestic and foreign investors. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u138	Heroic glory! Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, then Jurchishin and thereafter. Oh, and Tsimbaluk, and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u139	Thank you, Mr. Head. Your Honor, has our country's external perception of a scandal with the Supreme Court of Ukraine? On the one hand, of course not. But on the other hand, the world has seen that we can and are not afraid to keep on the hot side and then arrest the head of a separate branch of power that we have under the Constitution of Ukraine has a judicial branch of power. And, of course, there's a certain positive point to what happened. On the other hand, perhaps not as often as we would like, but we do meet judges who are not afraid to make decisions according to Ukrainian laws. And we must now be very careful that under the conditional Prince and Tandir we do not compare all the judges who are working today and who are fulfilling their constitutional and legal duties today. Of course, today we must condemn what happened to the former Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and encourage anti-corruption bodies not to do so again. Although we know it will happen again, unfortunately. We hope not at this level, but we will still witness the corrupt actions of the judges and we will and will punish them for it. On the other hand, we must remember that we are a State where the Constitution is in force and where the presumption of innocence is one of the principal principles in our country. Therefore, we need to remember and protect ourselves if we are to be condemned. Thank you for your attention. First of all, it's ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u140	Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u141	Once, after a great victory, sitting with my grandchildren, I'm going to tell you how we in the Supreme Council for 20 minutes strongly condemned corruption in the courts, and this has become a turning point in the fight against corruption. I'm sure we should move on. We need to assign the Tax Policy Committee a similar decision on corruption in the fiscal service, then on customs, then call the MPO and make a loud and clear statement about it. Or rather, to complete an adequate reform of the Constitutional Court, to prove, to monitor, at the level of the committee, the election to the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges and, indeed, not to imitate, to do something. Let's not imitate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u142	Please, Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u143	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, as I am, are obliged by the Supreme Council to respond to the facts that are taking place in the judicial branch of power. Clearly, the belief of citizens in justice is a sign of a democratic society. The same applies to the trust of foreign investors in the state. And it's important to carry out judicial reform, the High Council of Justice, and the Senior Judicial Commission has to work, we have to finally put together the local courts. And this is the basis for the reform to be completed; people have to believe in justice. And the rest is a positive sign, a sign that there are law enforcement authorities that are able to keep even during this difficult period of documentation. I'm sure anti-corruption courts will demonstrate expertise. That's the way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u144	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Before the vote, I ask you, too, the Supreme Council as the only legislative body to support this statement, because it is our position as representatives of the people before what is happening today in the judicial branch of power. But I really want this statement to not just be a statement, and then it should be followed by a whole series of decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine aimed at improving the quality of justice in the state and returning, perhaps the most important thing that there is, is confidence in the court. So, dear fellows, let's start with this statement and walk this path with dignity. Dear colleagues, I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for a hard and uncompromising resolution of corruption in the justice system (registration number of this draft decision 9331). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[15:15:32]] For 280 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next bill, 8216. We agreed without amendment, so I immediately propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine. Do you have an amendment? Okay. I'm sorry. What an amendment, please tell me. Jacenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, I ask you to consider, it's rejected, amendment number 46. It refers to the fact that not only public enterprises but also utilities are subject to the law. Because right now, not to catch fish, they say, in murky water, and to capture not only companies, but also utilities. So I'd like to ask you to support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u146	Mr. Anton, what kind of law is this?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u147	Mr. Anton, I'm surprised there are no 46 amendments to this law. Please turn on Jacek again, let's have a discussion on numbering amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u148	I guess I got the number mixed up then. I'm sorry, colleagues, I'll put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u149	It does. Dear colleagues, thank you for this brilliant moment. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the harmonization of the competitive procedure for the appointment of directors of municipal cultural institutions and the formation of a basic network of cultural institutions (registration No. 8216). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:17:40]] For 281 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, the law is passed in general. Next bill, 9143. The draft Law on Agree to the Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the release of material values from the state reserve. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:18:19]] For 277 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:18:39]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is written: With discussion. Two for, two for, right? Please sign up: two in, two in. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, all the laws are interesting, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Sign up because you can't log in, we're curious to hear your point of view. We agreed: two for, two for now. Please give the word to Zarim Maxim Valentinovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u150	Request to pass on the word Lichman.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u151	Please, Anna Vasilovna Lichman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Economic Development at its April 5th meeting, discussed a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the acceptance of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on the release of material values from an unabated reserve of the state's material reserve, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that, according to the explanatory note, the need to release an unbridled stock of the state’s material reserve was due to the beginning of a full - scale invasion of our State by the Russian Federation. And these. The release of an uninterrupted reserve was precisely to meet the needs of the USSR. Dear colleagues, according to the committee’s discussion, a decision was made. Agree to the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on the release of material reserves and on the basis of the results and in general with technical and legal remedies, taking into account the committee's next proposal: in the text of the decree of the word and the figure "2023" replace "21 March 2023 and 235-r". Dear colleagues, this is practically a technical decision, I ask you very much for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u153	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian National Deputy Igorovni Igorovni, a faction. MPs, more loyally, "Deliverance of Ukraine." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u154	Please give the word to Shewchenk Eugenia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u155	Eugene Shevchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u156	Respectful colleagues, indeed, on the committee considered this issue of state reserves. But I want to make another point. At the plenary meeting held that month, we adopted a bill on Ukraine’s national reserves in the first reading. I see that there's nothing at all interesting to the MPs, that there's something going on in Ukraine, that's how government reserves, money, and all that. And then they come out and they say in a way that's the way it's supposed to be done. And when it comes to doing that, and the parliamentary control, and the committee control, and the committee of the Supreme Council, is completely lost over the Cabinet of Ministers. If you look closely at this bill about the state reserve that we've been given, and the table has already come to us, there's not even a working group, there's no committee meeting, they've already rejected and accepted. This disrespect for the Supreme Council's constituency, the disrespect of the sole legislative highest authority, leads us to lose total control of what's going on in the executive branch of power. And then everyone goes out and says, "Where does the money go, where does it come from?" This is how it all begins when someone simply looks at it as through the prism of empty hands. What the Cabinet of Ministers does is it is time to invite them here every Friday for a meeting and to report what they are doing. The state reserve is black! So my suggestion is to look very carefully at the State Reserve Act, which will once again be there for us to review. It cannot be accepted at all without amendments, and so that the parliamentary control is not lost outside the Cabinet of Ministers, especially on state reserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u157	Thank you. Please give the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u158	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the National Deputies! If you read an explanatory note, the project will determine whether you want to pay attention! – events that took place in March 2022. This is about the operationality and expertise of the Cabinet of Ministers. This is about a state reserve of material values that would, of course, be used under martial law. But is it necessary to consider today? Probably last year, the Supreme Council was operating on a continuous basis. And I agree with my colleagues that the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers sometimes, to put it mildly, are indignant: they forget who is accountable to whom, or Kabmin to the Supreme Council, or vice versa. What's more, I think it should be here to report to the minister's or the minister's office, or someone responsible from the government. Because of this, your honorary colleagues, there is indeed a proposal to vote on this draft decision, but we are correcting the problem that has been created by the Cabinet of Ministers for so long. And the next, a material state reserve. A large-scale war has demonstrated that we have an emergency situation in a state of war and that we still need to work on it. This should be a reason to review what the State should have as an intact reserve and what needs to be improved. Actually, there are problems. Let us not have, as in the history of the modern - day Ukraine, that the mice ate dozens of tons of grains and other things. We need to keep in mind the state’s untapped reserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the "Voice" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u160	Please, the word of Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u161	Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, this decree, it should have, in principle, been a year and a half ago. She says we're actually cheating on everything that was passed on to the U.S.S.A. in March of the 22nd. I don't understand why we couldn't vote for it then, I don't understand why the reservation and the Cabinet of Ministers didn't answer the questions that we sent them on the basis of what was transferred, whether it was on the balance sheet at the time, or whether it was on the balance sheet of other enterprises. In short, many questions before this decision. And the best thing to do is to vote on such decisions after there are figures in the hands of deputies who make decisions, and there are audits of what has been passed on. Because it's very important to understand that it wasn't just written off because it was 20 years before or 10 years before, but the important thing is that it was actually transferred to the U.S.S.A. when it was necessary, at a time for which we feed the U.S. Reserve for 30 years -- a huge corruption monster that consumes between 4 billion and 6 billion dollars of our taxes each year. So for 30 years, we fed him so that at the moment of the disaster for Ukraine, they passed on fuel, grain, medicine and everything else to the U.S.S.S. What was passed on, how many and whether it was passed on, there is no answer to that. That's why we're going to hold on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, we're done discussing this. Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna, you weren't there, were you? Please, Sofia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u164	Colleagues, in fact, have to be honest, this decision is taken completely in pig's time, not when it was necessary, but almost a year and a half later, and the result would be the responsibility of those who did not prepare such a draft decision in time, and in fact Kabmin did not provide his own normal activity. But I'd also like to talk about the fact that this is where our Armed Forces sent a bunch of everything, but it turns out, let's be honest, you know, who works with volunteers, pharmacies provided volunteers, food was provided by volunteers, fuel, cars were provided by volunteers, and also by the quality of the security provided by the state, it wants much better and even at a modern stage. But I'll also point out that, six months before the invasion, "European Solidarity" was passing a bill on the formation of strategic stocks, but most in this room weren't going to understand that the "Moscow Federation" was going to attack Ukraine completely, and nothing was done.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a proposal that takes into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Decision agreeing to the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to release material values from an unabated reserve of the State's material reserve (registration No. 9143). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:29:05]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you. The law is passed in general. Next bill 9015. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Financial Mechanisms for the Promotion of Export Activities on Insurance of Investments in Ukraine against War Risks. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:29:42]] For 241 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:30:04]] For 232 Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, two in favor, two in favor. Will Kisilevski report? No, two-for-two-against, right? Then please. I invite Dmitry Davidovich Kisilevski, Ukrainian national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Your opinion is on the proposal of an investment insurance bill against war risks. We all understand that this mechanism is a prerequisite for our economic recovery, because the undeniable barrier to the creation, restoration or expansion of enterprises is the risk of destruction as a result of combat or inflation. Now, the military risk insurance service is potentially available to foreign companies that can insure their investments in Ukraine through MIGA, it's a World Bank unit, or through U.S. DFC. This work is coordinated by the Ministry of Economics. And for Ukrainian companies, this mechanism is not available, and this is a problem, because in the 21st year, almost 70 percent of all capital investments were made by Ukrainian companies. The bill proposes a decision to make sure that Ukrainian companies are able to do so? A mechanism through the Export Credit Agency. It now insures export contracts and has the right to insure investments from Ukraine. And we're proposing to extend his investment insurance mandate to Ukraine. Similar approaches exist in other lands, the most obvious example, of course, of Israel. There are other countries that offer their services to their companies. This bill will not restore, it will not launch the insurance mechanism for the next day, but it will create the necessary legal grounds. And it is part of a broader set of activities carried out by the Ministry of Economics and the National Bank for the implementation in Ukraine of an active investment insurance mechanism against military risks. We all understand that for the purposes of rebuilding this mechanism is absolutely necessary, and communication with business associations shows that they need and expect the state to develop such a mechanism. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u167	Thank you. Please welcome the Gethmans Danilo Alexandrovich, chairman of the committee. But, Daniel Alexanderovich, as decided by the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what is this bill about? This bill to enable the Export Credit Agency to insure the military risks of our domestic producers, our domestic investors. Countries in war. The main risk, the main obstacle to investment, of course, is this war. And if there are enough appropriate risk insurance mechanisms for foreign investors, there is no possibility for our domestic investors. So that's why this bill that we've submitted to you for consideration, he's proposing that the Export Credit Agency be able to perform these transactions. This will allow us to promote a domestic investor to invest money despite military risks and allow us to create an appropriate budget programme that will be used for appropriate purposes. In view of the above, the committee considered the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-con? Please. Please, Galina Ivanovna Yanchenko, "Serve of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u170	Good afternoon, colleagues. Last year, the Ukrainian government and representatives of parliament did virtually impossible, and we convinced the two US-wide insurance agencies MIGA and DFC to start insuring Ukraine's foreign investment against political risks and military risks. But every time the government and representatives of parliament ask foreign partners to create opportunities for Ukraine, to impose sanctions and so on, we get a feedback from time to time: and what Ukraine has done in this direction. And so I urge you to support this bill, to support our Export Credit Agency's ability to provide insurance against military risks. Not only will this make our insurance system stronger, but it will also give us additional arguments and twilights so that we can continue such negotiations with other foreign insurance agencies, such as Polish, German, British, and so on. They're willing to help us, but we also have to show that we in Ukraine are changing the legislative framework and also creating opportunities for our investors, including the ability to secure our new productions, factories, companies that will be created after the war, to shield them from war risks. Only this will allow us to look forward to the arrival of both Ukrainian domestic and foreign foreign investment after our victory. Thank you. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u171	Please, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u172	Please pass the word to the Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u173	Please, Zabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, this bill is the first step we as a state are taking in business to enable us to insure war risks, the risks associated with war. In fact, we have a big problem, no Western investor wants to go to Ukraine because it is impossible to insure these risks. But it's good that we've noticed that this isn't just about foreign investment, that it's also about an internal investor. Many Ukrainian companies are willing to invest money in Ukraine’s economy so that it will grow to pay taxes that go into the financing of the Armed Forces. But to do so, they want the risks to be feared. That is why this bill needs to be supported. But I want to pay attention, as I said, that this bill is just a first step, and we need to look further at what procedures are going to be in the Export Credit Agency so that it doesn't go so far as to avoid the risks of only large companies and just companies that are obviously the loudest ones. Because we have a lot of medium-sized, small businesses that also want to invest and want to insure risks. So I want to look to the future, including the future, that let's see in more detail how this framework bill will be implemented in sub-legislative acts. In addition, we need to work with the insurance market because in this case we solve this problem as a state. But we do have an insurance market that's actually dead, which in recent years has not developed in recent decades. Let's as a parliament think about what we can do to revive the insurance market and not only can the state incur risks, but private insurance companies can join us as we do with banks when we work with them on special programs. Colleagues, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u175	Thank you. Please, Majeschovich Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u176	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u177	Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u178	Colleagues, I'd like to move from the general words to the details we're discussing to the decisions we've made. First of all, I want to warn you that after the adoption of 8401 on the first reading tomorrow, thousands of people in certain regions are going to go to ODA. You, the authorities, and you have violated the first unity in our country. We've all made every effort to support the Ukrainian Armed Forces, you've just made an irreparable mistake, and it's going to wake us. So let's now think about how to proceed and what to do with that evil, wrong bill. About the Export Credit Agency. Well, unfortunately, I don't know how you're taking this proposal now, if literally all the projects, the pilots, the deal, nothing takes off. Neither donors nor creditors give us any extra money at all, no one has made a donation on the property recovery program. You see, there are now powerful agencies and funds that are going to monitor every single piece that's going to go to Ukraine for its rational spending and full accountability to our creditors. What are you counting on? 2 billion is the budget of the Export Credit Agency for this year. Part of the cost of export insurance has already been used. Now you're saying, let's just blur these 2 billion in order to insure more investments in Ukraine? The whole Ukrainian business that works here doesn't need your investment, it needs security. If there's money, 100 million dollars, 200 million dollars, you're not going to spend billions there, you're going to be safe. Just the last survey of the European Business Association.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, and after that we will proceed to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear Mr. Golovo, I would like to give the floor to the national MP, Mr. Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u181	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, even with all my antipathy to today's government and power, but I would like to emphasize that this is positive, in my view, the law, I support it and my colleagues. See, investment insurance for manufacturing and export. Important? It's important, of course, because we have only 7 percent of GDP in the structure last year, which is a manufacturing industry, 7 percent. Let's see if we need to maintain it or not. Last year's drop is minus 35 percent, which is minus 26 percent. On the one hand, the tool in theory is correct, but on the other hand, why we wrote against it, despite what we support. Today, for example, we voted in favour of the ratification of the Treaty with France. It would seem like a positive moment: they're giving us credit for a specific project there. But it says: 70 percent of the localization in France, 30 other countries, including Ukraine. That's where the economic model of Ukraine is defined, that's where we take the loans, by the way, 81 billion was at the beginning of the call, now 124. Well, yeah, we've increased in the last period, but we're still taking loans to load jobs, industrial production, to increase the GDP of other countries. We're increasing the GDP of France, we have 160 billion dollars of GDP, we have 3 trillion. To whom do we increase it? So by supporting similar draft laws, as now, we have to do in parallel not to undermine Ukraine's economic potential, industrial potential, export potential and, in general, macroeconomic all the parameters that exist today. Because with all the positive ideas of our colleagues, we will have a negative trade surplus, a negative decline in industrial production, an increase in unemployment, and so on, because it will not work. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, and we are moving on to making a decision. Please take your seats and prepare for the decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, on the basis of the drafting of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Financial Arrangements for the Promotion of Export Activities on the Insurance of Investments in Ukraine against War Risks (registration No. 9015). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:44:44]] For 252 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Moving on, next bill 9275. This is a draft Act amending Chapter XX, Subsection 2, Transitional provisions, of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Tax Exemption by Added Cost of Importing Transactions for Manufacture and/or Repair of Unmanned Systems (Registration No. 9275). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:45:32]] For 274 Decision taken. I'm making an offer to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[15:45:52]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two for, two for, please sign up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Without discussion, there is an offer, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Then let's do two in, two in, two in. Tell me, please, except. [[B in m in s a l in]] Arthur Volodymyrovich. Huh? Well, what are we gonna do? Dear colleagues, two for, two for, no, please sign up. Please, Lis Olena Georgievna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u184	Please pass the word to Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u185	Please, Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u186	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I urge you to support this bill. It's really going to let tax burdens go down and make it more effective to assemble aircraft, unmanned aircraft, that is, those assets that provide security for our country today, and our military personnel will be able to do more to protect our nation, to protect our people. But first of all, I'd like to point out that the Supreme Council, when it adopts laws on taxation, lowers the tax rate on added value, is likely to be used by all. The Supreme Council of the Ninth Call, you and I, we cancelled the tax, the land tax, the real estate tax for the territorial communities that were in active combat zones. The city of Kyiv, for example, reached the area of Sumi, Zaporozhye, the city of Chernigu, and the city of Kharkiv did not enter the zone of active warfare for one day. The question is why? Why do tax messages today come to tax payers in the city of Kharkiv every day and there will be foam and so on in the future? So please support this bill. However, I refer to the government, I appeal to the executive authorities of the city of Kharkiv, particularly the Kharkiv District Military Administration, and I raise the question that the city of Kharkiv should be included in the list of cities, i.e. the territorial communities, where active fighting is taking place, in order to ensure that the principle of justice and equality of our citizens is respected under these conditions, the conditions of war. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u187	Please, Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyevna, The Voice faction. Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u188	I don't understand what you're talking about here. On the basis and in general, everyone was supported. Let's finally do this support for our BPLA producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u189	Thank you. But I've only written it on a base. And in general, we can vote today, right? Well, I'll lay the groundwork. If it's okay, let's go in general. Okay. Dear colleagues, thank you. Please give the floor to Slavic Deputy Antonini Kerimovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u190	Please pass the word to your colleague Voronek Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u191	Please, Oleg Voronka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u192	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Today, we are all aware of the role of drones in protecting and counterattacking the Russian aggressor. It's also impactors and reconnaissance models. Most importantly, the more drones we have in our army, the more lives we can save and the more efficient we can do the tasks we set. The expansion of the domestic production of drone systems is a matter of national security. It's already about dozens of manufacturers. Even though the demand for drones is only increasing, buying them abroad is becoming more and more difficult. At the same time, the organization of home-made drones has many imports. The introduction of zero VAT and import duties will make the unmanned system much more accessible with different objectives. There is no doubt that Bills 9275 and 9275 should be adopted not only as a basis but as a whole. The decision must be made as quickly as possible. The Ukraine Retirement Group supports these initiatives. We urge you to vote for them too. Thank you for your attention. Oleg Voronko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u193	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please make a final statement. Maria Mikolayovna Ionova, faction of European Solidarity. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u194	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u195	Sophia Romanovna, please, Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u196	"European Solidarity" will clearly support all the two bills that provide for the removal of component taxation for drone production. But let's be honest, the volunteers have been talking about this since the first days of the invasion, and let's be honest, this should have been taken months ago when we took taxes directly from drones. But one special structure in Ukraine has blocked the issue of drone imports in general, and some scum, I apologize in a non-parliamentary word, has also asked Polish customs to stop the drones because they are in Ukraine, you see, double-dealing. When we asked this person, and if so, every drone is the price of saved lives, we're denied. And this man is still and this structure has not been held accountable. But let's be honest, and the same thing happened with the rocket program, and the same thing happened with the armored boats, since the 19th year, all of these programs have been stopped, there have been a bunch of criminal cases, repression, imprisonment against armed boat developers. And as a result, everything works out and everything needs to be done. And at this point, you and I need to start thinking strategically. We need to systematically rebuild Ukraine's defence industry. For each warring state, the defence industry is not only a foundation for development, but a survival of the economy, job creation and the ability to provide itself with those missiles, a variety of techniques that will enable us to fight against Moscow aggression. But it took us a year and a half to think that drones would save lives and have to import them. But I would also like the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Euro-Integration and special structures to think about why, so far, volunteers on the border have a problem with imports.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, one more minute, Cymbaluk, and we vote. Please prepare for the vote. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u198	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we propose a bill and a bill to be adopted in the first reading and in general. Indeed, the time is very short, the question is not only ripe, it is ripe. We need to be able to introduce a drone and a portion of it with tax dollars, because today it's a country branch, both volunteers and at the state level, that's where drones can be made up of foreign spare parts. The Armed Forces of Ukraine and all the forces of Ukraine, the defences of Ukraine, expect concrete action from us. Let's support these two bills both in the first reading and in general. The Fatherland faction will vote in both cases in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-29-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, I understand, all the factions have said that they don't mind to vote both on the basis, and in general, right, these two bills. So I'm going to make these decisions in turn on each of these two bills. And so I'm proposing to adopt a draft Act amending Chapter XX, Subsection 2, Transitional Provisions, of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Tax Exemption by Added Cost of Importing Transactions for Production and/or Repair of Unmanned Systems (Registration No. 9275). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:55:38]] For 284 Decision taken. I propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical legal amendments, the draft Law amending Chapter XX, Subsection 2, Transitional provisions, of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Tax Exemptions for Added Costs of Importing Transactions for Manufacture and/or Repair of Unmanned Systems (Registration No. 9275). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:56:16]] For 284 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have agreed on the next bill without discussion. So I immediately make procedural decisions. First. I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session the draft Act amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code on Tax Exemptions for Imported Goods for Manufacture and/or Repair of Unmanned Systems (Registration No. 9276). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:56:57]] For 281 Decision taken. I propose to adopt Bill 9276 as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:57:18]] For 281 Decision taken. I propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code on Tax Exemption for Imported Goods for Manufacture and/or Repair of Unmanned Systems (Registration No. 9276) should be adopted. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:57:53]] For 289 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, can we continue without amendment to vote 9051 and 9052 and take a break today? We can't, so now we're taking a break, dear fellows, and we've agreed to it by 4:00. Therefore, the honourable colleagues, the consideration of matters of order for today, has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We believe in the power of defense of Ukraine. We continue to work for the full victory. And the glory of Ukraine!
