ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in the context of the state of war" today, we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I point out that, according to the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present in the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament before an hour after the announcement of the recess in the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, a recess will be announced in the plenary and we all have to move to safe places, according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each and every one of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the State Hymn of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u2	Honorable national MPs, eternal glory to our defenders and protectors, who choose and defend Ukrainian statehood every day in heavy bloodthirsty battles with the aggressor. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of our soldiers who gave their lives for their independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity. Everlasting honor! Heroes don't die! We also honor the memory of all the innocent victims of Russian aggression.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u4	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, dear friends! Today, Ukraine meets Ukraine’s State Day for the second time in its new history. We are initiating, and more specifically, the tradition established by President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine on 24 August 2021, when his Decree "On the Day of Ukrainian State" was published, which has over a thousand years of history, its glorious milestones and worthy sons and daughters, who are now fighting with arms for our state, its freedom, independence and territorial integrity. I want us to be aware of their great act and to be applauded to all who are now standing in front of our struggle against the invaders. [[Applause]] Dear friends, even though today’s festival is quite young, it is based on the ancient and strong traditions of the Ukrainian nationmaking that have been beginning since the time of the baptism of the Kyiv Russia. Yes, right here in Kiev in 988, Prince Vladimir the Great of Kiev, at the confluence of Pochaena and Dnipra, baptized the Kyiv Rouss, the historical, geographical and cultural successor of which is exclusively the Ukrainian State. I want to be in the heart, here, in the heart of a great civilization, you and I realize that Ukraine is an ancient and powerful state whose foundations were laid over a thousand years ago. Yes, the Ukrainian statehood is not 32 years old, not 33 years old, but more than a thousand years old, and despite numerous efforts, the historic efforts to destroy, interrupt, or adopt, we will live. Despite trying to deny the historical facts that make us irresistible, we are on our own earth. We're not going anywhere. We're not going anywhere. We will never bow down to anyone. We don't trespass, but we won't give up ours. There is no doubt that one of the reasons for Russia’s solution to the war against Ukraine is the awareness of the vindictive and harmful enemies that without Kiev, without Vladimir the Great, Jaroslav the Wise, without Sofia, Lavra, without Pocaev, the Council of Presidencies in Odessa, without Harkov, Zaporozhye, the Horn of the Curve, without Ukraine in general Russia loses its historical subjectivity. And they're fighting because they can't accept the fact that there's no Russia without Ukraine and there can't be. Without Ukraine, myths of Russia’s great statehood are being destroyed. And this is a major historical trauma to them, which has been imposed on them by the complex features of Russian totalitarian regimes. This prevents Russian injustices from accepting historical truth and from building their own lives, refusing to continue stealing, killing, and looting. The fierce Russian war is a continuation of the destruction of Ukraine. The tragedy of Zaporozhi Sichi and Baturin, the Wallowian circulars and the German decrees banning Ukrainian language and all Ukrainian, the fall of the Ukrainian People's Republic, the famines, the destruction of our intelligence, Solovkov and Sandarmokh. And then there was a rude and uninhibited intervention in a case that had already been reborn in 1991, a gas addiction, a Kiev field, a bloody Dignity Revolution, Russia’s capture of Crimea, the occupation of Donbas, February 2022, when the enemy began a full - scale invasion. Butch and Borodjanka, Wolnovah and Mariupol, Bahmut and Herson — more than a year and a half of war and fighting, full - scale war and fighting. And these are the milestones of our history and the struggle for our statehood. These milestones hold our past and modern heroes who are confident that we will win the war against us, that we, in Ukraine, will determine our present and future, that we will definitely become part of a great European and Euro-Atlantic family. Dear friends! Let us be worthy of our future history, as was worthy of our Olga Harlan, who, in her yesterday speechless act, without a single word, with a pattern stretched out to the side of the rival, said everything in our hearts and thoughts today. I would like to thank Olga Harlan and all the Ukrainian athletes for their unbreakable patriotic stand. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! I ask the Youth and Sports Committee, together with the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, to respond to this disgraceful provocation against our athlete, to prepare an appeal to international society and to make proposals as soon as possible for the necessary decisions by Parliament. Dear colleagues! The statehood of Ukraine is the axis and salt of our land. And we will surely win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u5	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! I'm sorry for these harsh words, but on the day of the National Day of the Ukrainian State, during the speech of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I unfortunately did not see proper attention to the speech of the Head of the Supreme Council and the respect for this holiday and the speech of Mr. Stefanchuk. No wonder, then, that if there is no self - respect in this room, it is not available in other branches of authority and in the people of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u7	Irina Volodymyrna's character. Only by procedure, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u8	Thank you. It was our faction that listened very carefully to the speech of the Head of the Supreme Council, the first of the equals, and we urge that all the speeches of all the deputies be given attention in this room. We have an offer for you, Your Honor. Our faction now registers the resignation of Mr. Gutzite, the sports minister, who does absolutely nothing to protect Ukrainian sports. I'm sorry when all the Ukrainians came together yesterday to support Olga, on the youth and sports website, and there's still no (at this Ministry) response from the minister. We call on other factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u9	This is no longer a procedure, Irina Volodymyrna. Please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u10	And the second of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u11	Please allow the procedure to be completed for half a minute, but with the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u12	I'm out of procedure. Today, on State Day, there are no laws that have been foreseen at the outset. These are the ones that apply to the Church of Moscow. We want to support the honourable President of Zelensky, who rightly pointed out, following the path of President Prashenko, that we must rid ourselves of the Russian "spiritual" addiction. And so let us now put in order the daily bills that deprive the Church of Moscow here to impose this Kremlin ideology again.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I propose that a signal vote be held before the issue begins. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. [[10:15:58]] For 223 Against four, holding on to two. Everything as usual. Dear colleagues, once again, I appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. Dear colleagues, the list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council is given to you. Let us go to his consideration. The first question is 9535. This is a draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), parliaments and governments of its member states on the need to deprive the Russian Federation of membership in UNESCO. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the session. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:17:05]] For 244 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[10:17:27]] For 210 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u15	The authors are invited to report to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed for consideration by the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), parliaments and governments of the member states of this international organization on the need to deprive the Russian Federation of membership in UNESCO. Since the beginning of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine, the terrorist army has purposely destroyed the Ukrainian identity by destroying cultural objects, including objects included in the UNESCO World Heritage List. Only during the last massive air strike on the city of Odessa on July 23 were 29 sites of national and local significance severely damaged and destroyed, such as the Council of Saviors in the cent of the city. Such actions of the aggressor State make it illogical and impossible to continue to be among the members of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. In view of the need for a decisive response to the illegal actions of the Russian Federation, the Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on UNESCO, parliaments and governments of its member states to initiate the necessary consultations to initiate the removal of the Russian Federation from UNESCO and its organs, to condemn decisively the crimes committed by the Russian Federation against the cultural heritage of Ukraine, including the objects of a global heritage, to send an immediate mission to Ukraine to assess the damage caused by Russian attacks on objects of a global heritage, etc. The implementation of the draft decrees of action, we believe, will help to consolidate the efforts of the international community in order to avoid the new massive destruction of cultural heritage objects in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this important decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u17	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. From the Committee by Alexander Alexandrovich Netezko
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in accordance with article 93 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the Committee, at its meeting on 27 July 2023, reviewed the draft Ordinance on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), parliaments and governments of its member states on the need for the removal of the Russian Federation of Membership in UNESCO. The purpose of this draft Decision is to adopt a call from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), parliaments and governments of its member States on the need to deprive the Russian Federation of membership in UNESCO in response to the barbaric destruction by the aggressor State of cultural heritage in Ukraine, including those included in the UNESCO World Heritage List in accordance with the Convention on the Protection of a Global Cultural and Natural Heritage. Russia is an aggressor state, an enemy including culture. It destroys culture, it's a terrorist state. Please support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u19	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. Please sign up: two in, two in. Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich, "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u21	Please, Leon's Alexi, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, Russia's last barbaric attacks will not break Odessa. Thousands of Odessyts immediately after the alarm is over are on the street to help rescuers to tear down the bays, just to support each other. Today, Odessa is the only one who is surrounded by the desire for victory, united around the desire to punish those responsible for the destruction and injury of the peaceful inhabitants of the city, the damage and destruction of buildings that were ornaments and symbols of Odessa. Therefore, on behalf of all Odessa, I express my support for the main messages from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), parliaments and governments of its member States. A state that cynically destroys the objects of a world heritage is no place in the organization that protects them. But to throw Russia out of UNESCO is not enough, as our President has rightly pointed out, if a terrorist state and its leadership have the highest value for money, they have to be beaten in sick places. We thank our partners for their help. We know that we are not alone in our own troubles, but it is those who destroy them, not those who value them, to pay for the restoration of cultural values. Therefore, I propose to add to the appeal of the Supreme Council to UNESCO in the future to adopt a separate resolution. This resolution should consist of two paragraphs: paragraph one, the Supreme Council requests the creation of a special fund under the auspices of UNESCO, which will list part of the frozen Russian assets, which are to go towards the restoration of the objects of the global heritage in Odessa, Lviv and other cities of Ukraine that are under UNESCO protection and that have been damaged or destroyed during Russian rocket attacks; paragraph two, the Supreme Council refers to all institutions that are in charge of establishing an international mechanism to compensate for the losses of Ukraine from Russian aggression, asking for a separate item in the special international agreement on the creation of such mechanisms, it foresees that Russia will not have the right to.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, Voice, Osadchuk. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u24	Klimenko, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, surely, these ruins and atrocities over the monuments of the Odessa architecture are a real abuse of history. Many of them were not really built yesterday. And actually this is, you know, a demonstration of the destruction of the architecture monuments in Odessa. Of course, we support this decision. Of course, Russia has long to be expelled from all, not just UNESCO, from all international organizations. In fact, unfortunately, UNESCO did not even condemn or openly say anything. For many months, for a year and a half, UNESCO has been afraid to call Russia a terrorist, Russia a murderer, and Russia a monument to architecture. They're so impotent, they're all international, they never even call Russia or war. So let's not just go to UNESCO, we certainly support it, but we go to all of the international organizations that have been painted by Russian agents for a long time, systematically, 20 years that protect on an international level, from sport to UNESCO, to protect Russia in every way possible, so let's keep talking. But what I want to say is that Odessa is more than just a pearl and not just a monument to architecture. Odessa is still a large port city that provided our economy with 60 percent of the foreign exchange and 70 percent of the export. So let's go not only to UNESCO, but to everyone to unlock our ports and unlock the Black Sea. Russia cannot turn the Black Sea into a lake, its lake. So let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, "For the Future", Konstankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u26	Irina Konstanovic, Future Group. Of course, this decision will be supported by the entire room. But, Your Honor, let's be sober and aware that it's only half-dimension, because the exclusion of Russia from international institutions of authority is just a declaration. Russia’s influence on these institutions is enormous, and everything is resolved at a cost. But we have other arguments: we have the truth, we have the history, we have the national identity, and we see the world in this fight between good and evil, between democracy and tyranny on our side. We don't think it's enough in this regulation just to say that Russia needs to be expelled from international institutions and from UNESCO in particular. We have to do a great job on our part to convince the world of our millennium history, to convince the world that the history of Ukrainian nation-building is not only a dramatic one, but a tragic one, and that it continues today. And what happens in Odessa, Kharkiv, Mariupoli, Sumah and many other cities in Ukraine is another element of genocide against Ukraine. We were starved, we were tortured physically, we were tortured in various ways, but we must protect ourselves in the same way. What should we do about it? I think we need to step up work on both the international front and the cultural front, and we need to finance it, and we need to step up organizational work. And comparing the renovation and construction of the Holodomor Museum with the repair of the pipes is probably not a good comparison.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u27	"Trust," Bakunec Pavel Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u28	Dear Ukrainian people, today I have a special occasion, thanks to our Armed Forces of Ukraine, to welcome all of us with Statehood Day, with the anniversary of Ukraine’s baptism. Back then, centuries ago, a millennium ago, we made our right choice — a choice for the European Christian world. Back then, we had a national identity, but throughout all the years, centuries, millenniums, our Ukrainian people were forced to defend their national identity. The Imperial Russia has always wanted to destroy, in fact, at times perhaps managed to destroy the state system, but the national identity of the Ukrainian people has never been destroyed, nor by destroying cities and villages, nor even by destroying cultural monuments, unfortunately, happened in Odessa, before, unfortunately, it happened in the famous, beautiful city of Lviv. And of course, today we are going to the international community, the United Nations to make this aggressor, this occupier, the murderer, Russia expressly exclude from UNESCO. We call on the entire international community to take not only the words of condemnation, but also the real steps to help us protect, in fact, our heaven, then our cities, then our culture, then our statehood. We believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, believe in God, people, and victory.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u29	Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, and then Alexei Alexiyovich Honcharenko, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u30	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the distinguished national MPs! It is very important and symbolic that today's statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is adopted on the Statehood Day of our famous Ukraine -- symbolically. Russia is a state-of-the-art terrorist, and it shows it every day. This is a call to international institutions and maybe after that UNESCO will be limited not only by anxiety but by concrete actions to exclude the Russian Federation from UNESCO. This international structure has to really protect the world's heritage, because the crime that took place in Lviv, when the legacy was destroyed, in our famous Odessa, is an unacceptable thing. We approve and support, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u31	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u32	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Russia is an IDl, it's a terrorist number one in the world. AS IDIEL destroyed Palmyra, Russia is now destroying southern Palmyra, my native Odessa. We're talking to UNESCO, but the words here are unnecessary, so we need to do something. That is why we must ask and demand that UNESCO member countries, in order to preserve the global heritage located in Ukraine, provide anti-aircraft protection. For ancient Kiev, for Lviv and Lviv, for the Blacks and for my native Odessa, which today, the whole world has understood the meaning of Odessa's mom, who feeds the whole world, one of the most beautiful cities in Europe, and these inhumans destroy it. And today is Russia-Ukraine's Day of Baptism. You know, we once baptized these pagans from the Moscow swamps, so now it's our time to destroy them, because they didn't become Christians, this pagan empire. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, have you all spoken on this? Then let us move on to making a decision. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), parliaments and governments of its member states on the need to deprive the Russian Federation of membership in UNESCO. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[10:34:12]] For 296 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u34	Next thing you know, we agreed without discussion, there's only going to be a speech by the authors and a speech by the Solomia Anatolyovna Bobrowski, right? And she's not here. If she is. Then 9525, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, Parliaments and Governments of the Group of Seven, the Member States of the European Union and NATO, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the Independent International Medical Humanitarian Organization of Doctors Without Borders to ensure exchange and return to Ukraine of Mariupol's military prisoners. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[10:35:17]] For 293 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's then, the authors' speeches and, if there is, Samantha Bobrowski then. I'd like to invite Irina Volodymyr's Hero, please. Will you be from the authors? Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u35	Dear Ukrainians! A year ago, a Russian Federation terrorist in Olenovac swindled 53 Ukrainian prisoners of war. Now in Rostov, there's a lawsuit against the Badgers, over the Aydars, and in the prisons of the Russian Federation and in the occupied territories, tens of thousands of Ukrainian prisoners are being held. And it's obvious that this war, which has been going on since February 2014, has demonstrated the complete impotence and degradation of international organizations, particularly the International Committee of the Red Cross, which made up the lists of the "Acquiescs" during their exit from the "Austali" and took guarantees to the families of the captives that they would be given access to prisons, that they would be transferring drugs and drugs there, nothing like that. Colleagues, we have to push international organizations every day to perform their fundamental functions: first of all, to test the conditions of detention, secondly, to do everything possible to ensure that the torture is not over our captives. I understand how difficult it has been for prisoners to exchange, so the war has been going on since 2014. And every time we mention that it lasts from 2022, we are so offended by the memory of the thousands of dead and the families of the dead. Let us keep that in mind. And today, Parliament has to call on international organisations on all international sites: first, to go to prisons in Russia and in occupied territories; second, to make every effort to free Ukrainian prisoners of war, both civilian and military, third, to fulfil the guarantees they have taken before the captives of Mariupol. And most of all, no one ever recognizes these disgraceful courts that are taking place in Rostov today over our captives, we have to make every effort to free them, and every day to support the families of the captives who are waiting for their loved ones. From the Supreme Council, we sincerely desire all families.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the decision-making process. I ask you to prepare. I propose to adopt in general, taking into account the proposals of the Committee and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Organization of the United Nations, Parliaments and Governments of the Group of Seven, the Member States of the European Union and NATO, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the Independent International Medical Humanitarian Organization of Doctors Without Borders to ensure exchange and return to Ukraine of Mariupol's military prisoners. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[10:38:44]] For 293 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next Bill 7357. A draft of the Domain Name Registration Act. On the Conciliation Board, a decision was taken without asking questions about consideration and confirmation, and we immediately move on to making a decision. Therefore, my dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Domain Name Registration Act (7357). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[10:39:33]] For 282 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. The next bill was also arranged for the Conciliation Council without discussion. That's 8263. I therefore propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on Deradating the Resolution of Certain Issues of the Administrative and Territorial System of Ukraine (Registration No. 8263). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:40:13]] For 262 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, next Bill 9402. This is a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and other Ukrainian laws on the harmonization of European and North Atlantic standards of procedures for the declaration of military technology and other goods. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:40:49]] For 292 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[10:41:10]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We agreed to a discussion, so write two in favor, two in favour. Please, Gerus Andrey Mihajlovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u37	Please give the word to Alexander Owl.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u38	Please, Owl Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! This bill is needed by our military. We're entering form 302, this is a simplified declaration of military technology and other goods required by our military to teach, to perform special tasks. The bill also simplifies and clears out certain permits for the movement of food, medicine, and other goods needed for our military operations and training. The bill was supported by all the members of the working group, supported by the committee. And so please support his hall. And we're going to work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u40	Thank you, Alexander Georgievich. Please give the floor to the national deputy Lušnjak Mikola Volodymirovich, the MP's "Trust". Is that what you're saying? Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u41	Thank you, Mr. Head. Madam President, the Ukrainian National Deputies, of course, that the introduction of this Form 302, as it is in NATO, at our points of entry will make it somewhat easier for military logistics. And we support that and we're actually working on the second reading. However, it's important when we talk about our points of entry, about, in fact, these simplifications of customs, to talk about this step of justice in front of our defenders, and that is that we, the hall, need to look at the bills that have been on the profile committee for almost a year now, which will allow our defenders to take advantage of the opportunity to import a car into Ukraine once in a zero-minute payment, i.e. blurb without paying the costs. This will be a fine, just step in front of our defenders and their families. And actually, I'm asking you in the hall to look at this bill and actually do something right, something useful for those people who today give us the opportunity to actually have a baptism anniversary, a State Day, to work in this room and the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u42	Please, Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u43	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u44	Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u45	Dear Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen, our dear protectors! We warmly welcome you to the Day of State, the Day of Baptism on our home land and the birth, the spiritual birth of Christianity here in Ukraine, on our council earth. The bill that is now being presented, and the "Fatherland" faction will certainly support it, should also make it easier for our defenders to get all the technology needed to defend the country, but at the same time, we see this bill as one that draws us closer to membership in both NATO and the European Union. We stand in the position that each such bill should be fully in line with the European Union's standards and, in fact, we should be approved as a member of the European Union, by the same definitions, by the same standards and standards. It is time to reject all secondary activities, and this is how we approach legislative activity in the Ukrainian Parliament. And our European partners, our NATO partners, who are now working with the Ukrainian Armed Forces, with the General Staff every day and every night on the supply of technology, arms and everything that is needed to protect Ukraine, will certainly appreciate that and will treat us with respect and as true partners. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u46	Please, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of European Solidarity. He says I understand that, Jujanini. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u47	We are well aware of the venerable Presidium, the Ukrainians, and we know that since 2002, Ukrainians have been tracking the sentiments of NATO membership in Ukraine. As of June 2002, 32 per cent of citizens supported NATO membership, and 32.2 per cent of Ukrainian citizens opposed it. The situation was changing, and by 2019, more than 60 percent of the population had joined NATO. That is why, since February 7, 2019, the Constitution has fixed Ukraine's irreversible path to the EU and NATO. Therefore, the introduction into the national customs legislation of the provisions on the application of Form 302 -- it is applied instead of a customs declaration, used to move military and other goods of the armed forces of the EU and NATO member states -- is of course the right step. But we need to understand that prior to joining NATO, the use of form 302 will require the conclusion of separate bilateral agreements by Ukraine with each country separately to recognize our form. And here we need to pay attention to the important work that our diplomats need to do. Of course we support the implementation of Alliance standards, we'll vote. But unfortunately, this bill cannot be adopted as a basis and generally because of the lack of preparation by the Ministry of Finance of this project, which we are looking at today. Therefore, a second reading is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to making a decision. They all raised the question. Please, make yourself useful. I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code and other Ukrainian laws on the harmonization of European and North Atlantic standards of declaration of military equipment and other goods (registration number 9402). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:49:28]] For 259. Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 9402. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:49:56]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. 9467. This is a draft of the Act amending section XX, section 2, paragraph 32, of the Tax Code on Customs Imports of Goods for Safety and Defence (registration number 9467). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:50:37]] For 257 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[10:50:58]] For 226 Decision taken. Offer. Can we not discuss this, colleagues? Discussing? Please tell me which faction only one wants to speak. We can give you two minutes then. Oh, no? Then write it down: two in, two in, two in. But this will be a joint discussion of the next bill, which we will adopt without discussion. Write down the factions that wish to speak. Please. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of European Solidarity. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u49	Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to give the floor to Nina Jujanini. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u50	Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, such draft laws cannot be voted on at all without discussion. What we don't understand is that today we are considering two draft laws that are proposed to expand the list of defence supplies purchased under the Defense Procurement Act and the list of these products that will ultimately be the recipient of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We're going through this list for the third time. Please tell me, in the 17 months of the war, did neither the Ministry of Defence get any further, no, I don't know, all the necessary structures, the Cabinet of Ministers, where our Prime Minister is, in order to compose this list so that individual MPs don't worry and add to their proposals some one of the goods that is now required for the Ukrainian Armed Forces? I think it's just disrespect for all our soldiers and for the Armed Forces in general. Where's our Department of Defense? Where's his job? Moreover, today, when we add a certain group of goods, the committee has indeed had to raise the subject of anti - drone rifles. And I thank the committee members who supported the initiative on the proposed standard to include in this list of goods what has become necessary today. So it turns out we can't look at tomorrow, and what new technology we're going to need tomorrow. And again, it's not the Ministry of Defense, it's the people's deputies. So I'm just surprised and I think it's time for your majority faction to call the Secretary of Defense to a conversation and talk about the fact that even the government didn't make it in 17 months to accept a list of goods that could be supplied by legal entities to the Ukrainian Armed Forces without paying a profit tax. Look, I think it's a shame for us and everyone who's here, in the hall, when we're dealing with a question just from the wheel, we don't have any strategy. Please vote, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u52	Please. Venislavsky, I take it, passes the word to Getmantsev, right? Please, the Gethmans Danilo Alexanderovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, with the feast! With State Day! Baptism Day! I really respect the right of opposition to talk, but I really don't understand enough that this bill should be discussed. In fact, for the third time, we are supplementing the list of drones, aircraft, anti-drone rifles, including the opposition's proposals, by changing the list of these goods that benefit from the import into the customs territory of Ukraine. But war is a dynamic thing. The need for war is also changing, and planning here is very difficult. But you and I, both the opposition and the authorities, very clearly and unequivocally respond to any challenge, we make decisions very quickly. And let's make this decision faster without wasting time on fruitless discussions. Please support this bill as a whole. And as a result of consideration in the first reading, take as a basis and generally with the necessary technical and legal rights, providing for such changes in the text. Section I of the bill should be supplemented by a new paragraph of this content: a portable radio electronic device for detecting and resisting unmanned aircraft classified in item 8543 of the ZED. The second paragraph of section 1 of the bill is to be supplemented by a new paragraph: a portable electronic device for detecting and resisting unmanned aircraft (antidronic rifle) classified in item 8543 of the ZED. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u54	Danilo Aleksandrovitch, you must have been great at school in reading techniques. Dear colleagues, Voronko Oleg Evgenovich, deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The 9467 and 9468 Bills Package is one of the main proofs that the Ukrainian Parliament is a reliable support for Ukrainian defenders. We have a firm and strong political will to further simplify imports of those products that help Ukraine to effectively resist Russian aggression. The tax exemption on added cost and the import of optical observation devices will stimulate the increase in advanced night vision devices, digital monoculars, and binoculars. Such devices are used to identify and identify enemy targets. They are also indispensable for real - time support and coordination. On the one hand, it's a question of increasing the effectiveness of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. From another, an additional factor in saving the lives of our heroes. The parliamentary group "Deliverance of Ukraine" urges colleagues from all parliamentary forces to show a monolithic position on security, security and defence. Every similar decision and support of our warriors brings our nation closer to victory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u56	Please, Vlasenko first, and then the Ironman. My lady, I understand. Who's it gonna be? Mikhail Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u57	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. In fact, we're going to support both of these bills regarding the changes to the Tax Code and the Customs Code. And in fact, there is some government fault that needs to be made and responded promptly to the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. But we have a state of war, and sometimes we don't count everything, so the Supreme Council has to respond instantly to the needs of the Armed Forces and the defence forces that arise daily. We continue to express our gratitude to our international partners for their help, for it is really essential and essential. And we see how NATO countries are helping Ukraine today, placing logistics centres closer to the borders of our country. And the bill is very specific about certain species and goods. And as the chairman of the committee said, this is really our third bill on improving the import and removal of duties and taxes on goods that are essential to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. It is important that our Defenceprom also work in this direction to make our production competitive, although for the sake of justice there are already good examples of domestic equipment production for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We vote in favour and glory to the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u58	Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, and then we vote. One minute. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I am the first author of this law, but in fact my colleague Roman Costenko had to report, but he's not on vacation right now, not in the Maldives, he's on the front. And he was the initiator of this bill. It's a very simple norm. If we drive night vision devices and they have a camera, because of the changes in the terminology of the European Union, we now have to tax them. What he suggested and raised the question of Roma Kostenko is that if there's a built-in long-range or camera, it's going to be exactly the same kind of thermal vision that's going to help boys and girls on the front. Other anti - drone rifles were added to the bill. And hopefully, there's no question. So I ask you not to turn this into politics, but to give us the opportunity to vote as a basis and as a whole, and to sign these changes immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, we've completed our consideration of this issue, we're moving on to a decision, please prepare. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending paragraph 32 of Chapter XX, Subsection 2, "Transitional provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation" on the characteristics of imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of goods for security and defence purposes (Registration No. 9467). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:01:32]] For 298 Decision taken. I propose to accept in general, taking into account the proposal to accept, in general, the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments, draft Law 9467. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:02:01]] For 294 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, we agreed that the following law would not be discussed, so I immediately propose to include in the agenda of the daily session a draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of import into the customs territory of Ukraine of goods for security purposes (Registration No. 9468). Please vote. I know we have to get into the daytime, Danilo Alexandrovich! [[11:02:37]] For 295 Decision taken. I propose that the draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine should be adopted as a basis for the import into the customs territory of Ukraine of goods for security and defence purposes (registration number 9468). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:03:08]] For-300 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of import into the customs territory of Ukraine of goods for security and defence purposes. (Registration No. 9468) Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:03:44]] For 301 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. From the procedure? Jaroslav, to Irina Volodymyrna. Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, this is actually the most important bill the House has voted on today. We welcome the vote as a whole and take the initiative to have the Chief of Staff sign these bills without delay and to send them to the Supreme Commander of the President of Ukraine. In the Armed Forces of Ukraine, we welcome our bills. And they're really expecting us to simplify the import of these desired defective heat-visions for the front. Mr. Head, please sign them immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u62	If there's no objection, I'm going to put the proposal of the reverend Irina Volodymyrovna Heratschenko to the vote. I would like to place a motion on the vote to the Head of the Supreme Council to sign the bill of 9467, 9468, which has just been adopted as a whole and to refer it to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:05:12]] For 289 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u63	Your Honourable colleagues, Mr. Jurchisin, let's go through another bill, vote not to lose pace, and then hand it over to you, 8222.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u64	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u65	What about the procedure, Irina Volodymyrna? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Head, you know, we welcome the fact that the Presidium doesn't burn in us is very important. But we're paying attention to the fact that unfortunately, in the towers of the Supreme Council, MPs are smoking coconuts, and you can't go out there. I very much ask you to address the members of the Supreme Council, remind them that the coconuts don't smoke in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and stop this mess. Thank you very much. And I welcome that you don't smoke either, Mr. Head and Presidium.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, 8222 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on State Service to introduce the only approach to paying for the work of civil servants on the basis of classification of posts. I would like to suggest that we consider these issues in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:06:55]] For 243 Decision taken. I'm making an offer. And this was a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, come on then, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on State Service to introduce the only approach to paying for the work of civil servants based on the classification of posts. I ask you to sign up: two, two, no, to discuss this issue. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Bezgin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u69	Please, Bezgin Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u70	Good afternoon, colleagues. Everybody's having a party. And I think it's very right that on State Day we are particularly considering a bill that deals with the issue of the State Service. Actually, there's a NADSU chief present in the room and I think that this bill is more than a requirement and a position for our European partners. It's about that when we talk about the stability of the state, we have to understand that both military personnel and directly our civil servants have to have decent security and a normal approach to it. Without that, we will never build a permanent normal democracy that can solve issues at the managerial level. So I'm really asking everyone to support this bill, which, by the way, is a marker for the representatives of the European Commission. We understand very well that there are a lot of issues that need to be worked out, and I believe that our committee, and the National Service Agency, and the government will be ready to work on it between the first and the second readings, and we promise that it will be very thorough work. Now, a big request for everyone to vote green and bring us closer to a normal state service with a normal approach to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please go on instead of Abdulina Evtushok Sergey Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u72	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Very good and simple, your fellow officers, to speak from this rostrum, examining such draft legislation when you have practical experience of some service in local self-government, something in the public service. I would like to remind you that in the last call in this room, a great reform of the public service was voted out by the Committee of the Public Service Organization, where it was clearly stated that the heads of state administration were elected to these positions on a competitive basis, which was put under pressure by some of the President's Office, some of the central authorities, the government of any head of administration, and he was autonomous in making decisions when he was adapted to the region where he was entrusted with leading the administration. Unfortunately, to this day, all the presidents, including the current one, have absolutely disregarded the fact that this is supposed to be an independent body, something like what works in France, which is called the ENA School, called the Authority that provides the functions of the state. And what I'm saying is, the Fatherland faction is now talking about what we're demanding, of course, good wages for government officials, not just for managers, but this could only be from the state budget, because these people are doing the government's job. Today, executive heads go with their hands stretched out to the leaders of the territorial communities and ask for subsidies: Grant us a subsidy to pay our employees a salary. That's not the way it's supposed to be. However, we say that this law requires a comprehensive approach, taking into account payments for unused vacations and other payments. That's why we vote in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u74	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues! The bill deals with a number of issues relating to the financial security of government officials, deals with the issue of premium payments. I hope that during the state of war we won't hear about the bonuses at all, I'd like to believe that. Our political power has always expressed the transparency of the financial security of our officials and the limitation of the corresponding payments. And today this law will touch government officials of the first type. And when preparing for the second reading, we need to take a closer look at the question of what kind of wages our officials receive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u75	Please, National Deputy Comedian Natalia Igorovna, MP's "Delivery of Ukraine". After that, we will vote for Alexeiyyovich. People's deputies please take their seats. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u76	Please pass on the word "Valerius."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u77	Valerius Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u78	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Traditionally, reforms in the public service sector have been popular in our country. Creation of new organs and offices for the formation of goals and verticals. And each movement created an imbalance in wages. We have often witnessed public opposition between government officials and officials from local self - government, between officials and government officials. Without a doubt, the situation is far from just. The government initiative that proposes to introduce the only approach in this direction in the payment of public officials based on the classification of posts is really on time. Even more so at the time of the question of the competitiveness of these salaries. And we often underestimate people who give themselves to the public service. Moreover, we need to involve more highly qualified and motivated people in this service. And the government's proposal is a step in the right direction. The Ukrainian Liberation Group supports the bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, please also Honcharenko Alexiyyovich, then Bilozoz Larissa, and then we vote. You have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u80	Alexei Hotcharenko. "European Solidarity." We're looking at wage issues for civil servants. Friends, with all due respect, have to vote, but the main issue today is the salaries of the military. This is what we need to consider with you. I'll remind you, in the Supreme Council, there's a bill that we've passed that we've passed... on the return of thirty to all, all the military personnel: "Nazwardiya", DSSU, all the rescue workers, the police. It was April 10th. Let's go back, unlock and pay back. The other one. If we haven't done that before, I've registered in Parliament a bill 9447 on the return of the average earnings to the military because you took that 30th and today people who went to the volunteers who were Haitians, managers, got 1.5, two, three thousand dollars, today get a goal of 20. Let's at least give them back what they've earned in a peaceful life. We'll support the military!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u81	The word is given to Billozer Larissa Mikolayovni, the MP group "Trust." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very much going to ask you to support this bill, because this bill is a bill on the formation of civilised public service, institutional capacity. Because to plan a little bit to save up the budget by paying cash and throwing people out into the streets, into the skills and experience of huge costs, and more and at the same time to rebuild the country, and to move into the European Union a little bit contradictory plans. And maybe we'll just change our minds, stop optimizing and build our institutional capacity? Because we need to adopt 27,000 acts of acquis communautaire if we are planning to join the EU. And to do that, we need people. Even today, we lack qualified workers. So please, in the first reading, please support this bill so that we can form a civilized public service that will form.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this important issue. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the Committee's proposals, the draft Act amending the National Service Act to introduce the only approach to the work of civil servants based on the classification of posts (registration No. 8222). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:17:14]] For 281 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing that we continue half the time, not cut down, but this time, that we continue half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 8222. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:17:48]] For 275 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next without discussion, please don't disperse. This is Bill 7021. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code to clarify the grounds for examining the court's decision under the newly declared circumstances in matters of the establishment of the person's effectiveness (registration No. 7021). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:18:30.]] For 271 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, now one more without discussion. Just two minutes, Kucherenko, and we're voting. And then Jurchishin, there was a statement from two factions with a break and a replacement for the performance. But we move on to 2390, he's not discussed, except for Alexi Yuriovich Kucherenko, and we're voting in general. Alexi Yuriovich, two minutes, right? One, please, Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko, and we vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u84	Thank you, Your Honor. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. By the way, I really liked the speech of a colleague today who asked us all to listen very carefully to each other, so, you see, I'm going to try to explain in 30 seconds right now. On July 1, 2019, a new energy plant began its work. Before that, there was an old energy plant. And on that old energy market, there were 30 billion dollars of debt. And the main thing that had to be done first is to sort out and settle these debts so that the new energy plant would already work. I'm, by the way, pointing out to the majority that it's already completely your cadence and full responsibility for the new energy plant, which has also accumulated a lot of debt. This law is proposed until the first step is taken and the old debts settled. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u85	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (for measures aimed at repaying the debt created in the wholesale electricity market) (registration No. 2390). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:20:37]] For 261 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. Next came a statement from two factions with a break, instead of a performance. The word is given to Jurchino Jaroslav Romanovich, the faction of the Voice. Please, Jaroslav Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I have the honour of speaking on State Day, for I will talk about the statehood of nations and nations that, unfortunately, have not yet been recognized by the world. Once upon the initiative of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and the Ukrainian Congressional Committee back in the 1950s, a week of captive peoples was introduced in the United States, which was celebrated in July, the third week of each year. The aim was to draw attention to those nations that the Soviet Union had seized and had purposely destroyed. Thank God and our fighters, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Ukraine now has not only independence but world recognition. But Tatarstan, Icéria, Adigea, Bashkiriya, Dagestan, Karachio-Cherkesia, Mordovia, Tuva, Chushia are those countries, republics, nations that have not in their own time accepted a federal treaty and have not actually become subjects of the Federation. Then, at first, the Yeltsinian regime pressured them so that they would not become independent. But, for example, Tatarstan, held a referendum, 80 percent of the population voted for state sovereignty, and in 2007 it did not recognise its own treaty, which was concluded with Moscow, which guaranteed the right to self-determination. And in Russia, so-called Russia, more than 30 percent of the population is not Russian. When we're forced to be friends with so-called good Russian, when our athletes are forced to squeeze their hands, we have to explain to the world, Russia is still a prison of the peoples. There, more than 30 percent of the population have no capacity for self - determination. And we, who are closest to us, who understand the problem best, have to deal with it. So, together with my colleagues, I initiated the establishment of a temporary special commission to develop a state policy on relations with the indigenous peoples of Russia. I thank the factions for the future, the European Solidarity, the Voice, to those who have already delegated their members. I thank my colleagues very much for the People's Service, especially Mrs. Mezentsev, who has agreed to lead this commission and has the opportunity. But I'm very much asking the "Serial of the People" and other factions to hand over their members so that we can form a policy, pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u87	Thank you, Jaroslav Romanovich. Let's move on. And then we have 7331, this is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to simplify the conditions of economic activity during a period of military (extraordinary) status in Ukraine. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote, Your Honor. [[11:24:45.]] For-183 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this is a discussion. Then write it down: two in, two in, two in. Do I get it right? Okay. Sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to Arjev Volodymyr Igorovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u88	Please pass the word to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u89	Please, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u90	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the bill suggests that operators be granted the right to continue certain activities during a time of military emergency. Relevant grounds for submission to the relevant licensing authorities, permit documents, and public electronic services entities of declarations on the conduct of business without obtaining permits, licences, and the results of the provision of services provided by law. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will determine the submission of declarations and, accordingly, the list of information submitted to the declarations. I would like to point out that the bill requires clarification and, first of all, the introduction of decisions by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, other means of submitting documents of a permissive nature by the operators will not contribute to the implementation of the principles provided for in article 3 of the Law on the establishment of the single requirements for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature. At the same time, it is necessary to settle the comparative table of proposals that the NEU pays attention to. And it would be appropriate to add a position in the project to determine how the subject is confirmed if the type of activity of the declaration of continuation of the business is required when we are talking about the permissive nature of the document. At the same time, the Committee on European Integration gave a positive assessment, and so did the Committee on Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one more speech and we're moving on to the vote. People's deputies, take your seats. The word is given to National Deputy Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u92	Natalie's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u93	Please, Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u94	Thank you. Colleagues are simple enough and less important, a bill that facilitates business in conditions of war and not just war. There are situations where the name of the company is fundamentally changed and then there is a need for certain licenses to be submitted and updated. There are situations where, as a result of legal succession, the next legal person who has acquired all rights and obligations needs to renew the legal documentation. It takes weeks, months, it slows down the activity, in these circumstances sometimes it makes it impossible for economically active enterprises to continue their activities and thus continue to fill the budget or work effectively for people, they find a certain period without work, without pay and without a way of providing. Thus, the bill solves a number of similar situations and is primarily called upon to simplify business, simplify the work of economically active subjects in these difficult conditions. And I'm asking you to support this because it's actually one of the few entrepreneurship bills that we can really help our business in terms of war to run our business more effectively. It's the first reading. And I'm asking you very much to support the second reading. If there are any wishes or inaccuracies, of course we will work on their removal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u95	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws to simplify the conditions of economic activity during a period of military (extraordinary) status in Ukraine (registration number 7331). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:30:16.]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have received a letter from all the leaders of the factions and groups, or their representatives, to include in the agenda of the daily plenary meeting of the Supreme Council since 28.07.2023 the draft Law on Optimization of the Property Structure of the Operator of the Ukrainian Gas Transport System (Registration No. 9311-1-d) and to move on to its consideration. I propose to include Bill 9311-1-d in the agenda of the plenary today and to move on to its consideration now. Please vote. [[11:31:11]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we make a decision on his decision immediately? So I'm making an offer. Pussy, please excuse me. Alexy Yuriovich, do you have an amendment or a statement? Turn on Pucherenka Aleksija Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u96	Mr. Head, I'm going to be very pragmatic today, two minutes of the speech, and two minutes of the amendment. First, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u97	Then, if possible, call the number immediately so that we can find it quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u98	Yeah, I call 26th, 62nd, 68th, 64th is essentially one and 81st.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u99	Please, 26 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u100	26 amendment, I just want to take it into consideration by everyone, including the honourable Mr. Head. This amendment is proposed, however, for the formation of supervisory councils, primarily the use of Ukrainian professionals, Ukrainian citizens who live in Ukraine, who have property, history and responsibility here, and who may be responsible for their decisions. No case of a successful foreign oversight board, I personally don't know. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u101	Committee position, brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u102	The committee did not support this amendment because it is not about making most of the use of the right for Ukrainian professionals. It is about completely prohibiting foreigners from being members of our oversight councils. I think there's a positive experience, the Western world, there's a positive European experience, and if some people with good experience, with good professional experience, are going to be members of our supervisory board and pass on this experience to Ukraine, it's not bad, it's good. So in this case, competition has to decide who will be a member of the Supervisory Board. If our specialists are stronger, then ours, if there are strong European specialists or Western specialists, can also be members of the Supervisory Board. Therefore, the committee did not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u103	Thank you, colleagues, you've heard everything. The 26th amendment, authored by Kucherenko, was rejected by the committee. You've heard the side arguments. Please vote, 26 amendments. [[11:33:42]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Next, 62nd, Alexy Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u104	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. About the successful foreigners, we'll probably continue this discussion separately, and now we're going to have 62 revisions. What's the point, make sure our GTS is handed over to the operator on a pay basis, hear me again. It's the only country in the world that's handing over T.O.S. to some T.O. operator on a free basis, you know? It's an anomaly. I'm convinced that, with the use of state property, the GTS operator has to pay, and all the arguments that this will raise the tariff, I definitely don't, because if they are smaller, I'm sorry, I don't want the word "stolen" to apply, I don't want to work more effectively, the tariff will not go up, and the government budget will get very much and very much money. That's the whole point of this right over here, the pay-per-view pipe is used by operators, and the state gets the money for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u105	Please, Andrew Mikhailovich, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u106	The GTS operator is a public company that is tariff. So all of its costs are covered by a tariff. Accordingly, if it has new costs that the state company pays for state gas pipelines, these costs should be covered by tariffs, which means that gas transport tariffs will increase and gas tariffs will increase for final consumers, so of course we have not supported and do not need to make decisions that will lead to an increase in final tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, 62 amendments to the authorship of Kucherenko. The committee's dismissed. You've heard the side arguments. Please vote. [[11:35:43]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Next 68. Isn't that right, Alexy Yuriovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u108	Thanks, guys. Then, well, 68th, she's related, I'm not even going to ask her to support her. But to answer to the honourable head, I would like to say, Your Honor Andrew Mikhailovich, your tariff vision is completely unacceptable to me. I am ready to continue this discussion. I want to give you an example, the state company NAC Naftogaz now, after nationalizing one oligarch's lies, pays, you know, they pay for the use of gas distribution networks and they put it in tariffs, but that didn't lead to an increase in tariffs because they cut production and technology costs. So I'm just paying attention, let's calmly, professionally deal with tariffs, unfortunately, I want to say, misjudge you, no offense. I don't vote on this, because I understand. Moving on, please 81.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u109	We're voting 81st right now, right? Oh, please, 81st.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u110	See, this is a continuation of the previous question: what is the tariff for the supply of GTS Operator gas? As the head of the temporary special commission, I turned to the NCREKP to explain: What is the cost of the pipe they place on the tariff, and what is the base, you know, balance? Do you think they answered me? No, they didn't answer me. We don't know what the price is. This right therefore proposes that the NCRECP be obliged to make available on its website all information on the balance sheet value of all assets, both the GTS Operator and the fraud and other energy companies, in order to finally eliminate speculation, what is an economically sound tariff. It is simple to understand the design of European experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u111	Thank you. Will you answer? Please, Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u112	I can answer that. The question of the book value is primarily the question of companies that have this information to provide. In this case, the NCRECR regulator is posting tariff projects on the site, explaining the grounds, so this is the issue that today is regulated by the NCRECR regulator and the information used for tariffs can be found on the website.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, the 81st amendment of authorship. Oh, are you filming? One minute, please, Kucherenko, and we will proceed to the vote. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear friends, just as we continue this discussion, please understand these are extremely important questions. It's about billions of dollars paid by consumers, surpluses, and billions of dollars that don't come into the budget. I propose to continue this discussion with the Economic Committee of Mr. Nataluha, with the European Integration Committee and others in order to understand that the tariff issue goes beyond even the powers of our powerful committee. No offense, Andrey Mikhailovich. Now, about this vote. I mean, we won't support it, but we understand that you can't interfere with correcting your fatal, primitive, lobbying mistake of the 19th year when you passed the Ending Act, which didn't allow them to operate professionally and transparently. Correct this error and apologize to the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the decision-making process, please. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on Optimization of the Property Structure of the Operator of the Ukrainian Transport System (Registration No. 9311-1-d). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:40:15.]] For the 250. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Our next bill, 5431, is Euro-Integrated. In factions, show the previous vote. Thank you. Next bill, 5431. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the activities of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee. This, once again, is a Euro-Integration Bill. Thank you very much for the great work that was done by the committee along with the factions and groups. And we agreed on that today. In five minutes, Heratchenko, Klimpush-Cincadze. After that, "European Solidarity" puts 5 amendments into consideration, 5 for confirmation. After that 2 fixes Kucherenka and 5 minutes of performance. After that, a few more votes and six amendments to the Buymaster for confirmation. And we're voting on the bill. Did I say it right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, six minutes of the play, and then immediately amends it for confirmation. Dear colleagues! Here we go. Five minutes, Heratchenko. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! There's no question that the first thing you have to do is remove all the influence of those people here, you know, handing out envelopes and keeping factions. And so the fight against the oligarchs began with the privatisation of Private Bank, because the oligarchs began to lose their influence on political decisions in the state in 2014 - 2019. Then what happened? The so-called Oligarch Act has been adopted, which has been handed down to both the European Commission and the Venice Commission, because it is clear that this law does not refer to any fight against oligarchs, but rather to an attempt to give the Council its inequitable functions to the Security and Defence Council to form so-called lists of oligarchs without trial, without investigation, and to use this depth for political purposes, which our European partners have rightly pointed out. The fight against oligarchs, delligarchisation is one of the seven points needed for Ukraine's implementation, for the beginning of the official negotiations for Ukraine's entry into the European Union. And what do we see here? The government, the president, who spoke so much about fighting the oligarchs, has not passed any law on this subject to Parliament. Once again, it's done by the hands of a majority MP who's passed completely unprofessional, completely unprofessional laws. In all European countries — members of the EU and NATO — the fight against the excessive influence of oligarchs who have monopolies on political processes in the state is limited to the strengthening of the Antimonopoly Committee itself. But what are we talking about now when we discuss this bill? About the creation of a new repressive machine, when the Antimonopoly Committee gets incompetent functions, such as the BEB, such as the Public Prosecutor's Office, such as the NAB and the SAP and other power structures, instead of fighting the oligarch mechanisms that still exist in this structure. Tell me, please, what's normal is that now that you're talking about fighting oligarchs, from a government poor budget, where there's no money that's entirely dependent on our partners, you pay the oligarchs for the cables in the marathon? Read the overwhelming conclusion of the European Commission that there can be no depth in the form of a Security and Defence Council to politicize these processes. The oligarchs must be removed from the influence of the process in the state. And what happens today when we hear that Privatbank, which is already state-owned, says that it doesn't receive revenue from oligarham-owned fillers when we today have sanctions imposed by the United States on Ukrainian oligarches, not synchronized with the Ukrainian sanctions system because the authorities don't notice these oligarches? And so it's really important that the authorities don't lie about what, as if, the Venice Commission said that the completely ridiculous oligarchus Act that you've adopted so loudly here just has to be postponed until the end of the war. This is not true, the Venice Commission and our international partners, the European Union told you that the oligarchs law has nothing to do with fighting oligarchs. It's a political bill. But we have to fight the oligarchs as follows. The first is to synchronize United States sanctions with Ukrainian sanctions and finally impose sanctions against Ukrainian oligarchs. By the way, channel 1+1 belongs to oligarchs and subsanctionees, including Mr. Medvedchuk. The second is that we really have to stop the influence of the oligarchs, including this session hall. Ukrainians, when you see what's going on here, don't be surprised why. Because most of it, you know, like a stove made up of know-it-alls that were delegated here by the oligarchs. People with no name, no reputation, no professional understanding of how to run a state came to this list of 250, and they are voting exactly the same now when they're told, "yes," without reading the essence of the law, including the oligarchs. These are the people who voted to give 2 billion dollars to the oligarchs on the oligarchs, who say all the good things about power and no words about what is really going on in Parliament, what laws should be adopted here, including the Antimonopoly Committee Act. Our faction will amend this bill, which does not meet 5 percent of the European Union's acquis law. We have to clean out all the reprisals.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u117	Irina Volodymyrna, let me give you a few words. I would have asked you, without offense, to any factions. This is the basis of the worldview of any national MP, even with very great experience. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next is Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, perhaps for those who do not read the conclusions of the Venice Commission, there is a little secret. The Venice Commission agreed that the so - called delligarchization bill, which had been drafted by Ukraine, had nothing to do with delligarchization and suggested that it should be postponed until after the war. It was so diplomatically proposed by the Venice Commission. But at the same time, the Venice Commission also turned to Georgia and to Moldova, which had copied a bill or a law already in force in Ukraine, to abolish them immediately, saying that the same fate would be met by this pyar-action, which was approved in this Council and with which the executive power of Ukraine had been treated. At the same time, the Venice Commission stressed that Ukraine should actually bring antitrust legislation into line with European legislation. And the Ukrainian Parliament, once again not from the initiative of the government, which seemed strangely to be the government's initiative, is working on this bill that we are now considering with you. Only our committee on integration of Ukraine into the European Union has considered the decision three times, and it has analysed the bill before the second reading, as the committee of profile has reviewed it eight times, if I am not mistaken. And so far, we now have a bill out of the room, which, I stress, between the first and the second readings has become, even though it is with the flag, directly contradicting the law of the European Union, it has become directly contrary to our international legal obligation in the sphere of European integration. Let me remind you that this is one of the bills that we need to adopt in order to, colleagues, implement and fulfil qualitatively, stressing the quality of the conditions that have been given in connection with our becoming a candidate for EU membership. So, colleagues, I very much ask you to take responsibility for this vote, to take responsibility for those amendments that will now sound both for consideration and for confirmation. And I very much hope that this room is able to demonstrate responsibility and maturity in relation to the responsibility that lies before us for the positive conclusion of the European Commission on the opening of the talks. And one more thing, colleagues. We decided by this bill to give extraordinary powers to the Antimonopoly Committee. Extraordinary in terms of creating another essentially law-enforcement monster who will have certain responsibilities that will intersect with other law-enforcement structures, and at the same time, we are not proposing any institutional mechanism to ensure the independence, real independence of this body. This means that this body can be used as a political instrument of pressure, as an economic instrument of pressure against competitors, against opponents and so forth. So, colleagues like me, this bill needs to be re-readed, brought really into line with the European Union's rules and then approved, and then looked at honestly in the eyes of the Ukrainian electorate, what we really did is everything we expected from the point of view of implementing real competition in Ukraine and the mechanism that will ensure compliance with this competition. I look forward to the reasonableness and wisdom of this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look, I have a request, let's all speak first and then we'll make adjustments. Please take five minutes, Kucherenko, then six minutes, and then we'll move on to the amendments. First, you're gonna have to make adjustments, then you're gonna have to confirm. Five minutes, please, Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u120	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I'm very rational today. I'll try to save you, I won't use all five minutes. First of all, I've just heard a great speech by my colleague Klimpush-Cincadze and practically all the arguments I'm taking, it's really true. And now I might as well try to explain both my questions and our faction more simply about what's going on. Well, it's a really misunderstood story, and I got mixed up in these bills, and there's some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some. It's not a system job, unfortunately. I want my colleagues to take this as a constructive criticism from the relevant committee. I'm asking a simple question, and what further authority do you lack, dear colleagues of our antitrust workers? We all understand, there's no need to convince anyone here, to campaign for competitive legislation, for antimonopoly real politics, we're all behind it. Well, get out of the street, ask the average of anyone who's cyanine, who's a civilian, what he thinks of monopolies as communal. He'll give you the answer, "Ha ha ha, do you take me for an idiot?".. Ask any businessman -- small, medium, big. By the way, I'm paying attention to a methodological error: we're not discussing oligarchs in this law, we're discussing antitrust legislation and compliance with competitive legislation. What's with the oligarchs anyway? All right, here we go. Ask the kid, the average guy who's in some way facing the Antimonopoly Committee, well, I don't think there's going to be a lot of positive estimates. I know that in his report, the Antimonopoly Committee reported that it was up to 300 million dollars of fines, that it filled the budget, that was a controversial argument. You know, just like their colleagues from the NCREKP, instead of regulating the monopoly in a transparent way, they decided that their job was to fill the budget with fines. It's not their main function. Their main function is really to ensure that antitrust policies are constantly enforced. In these circumstances, when the committee really didn't use the powers it has today, it's in Ukrainian tradition that it requires and asks us to give it new extraordinary powers: search, investigation, wiretap, etc. and so on and so forth. Well, friends that keep you from recognizing Naftogaz as a monopoly for four years at last, because that's what it is. Understand! So that we can work properly with Naftogaz, make it completely transparent, make the audits, understand what an economically sound price for gas and tariffs is, and calm down, but follow the algorithm. No, you don't. And here's a key answer to the effectiveness of the Antimonopoly Committee. The same applies to the monopolization of other markets. It's also the gas market. We were just talking about it. These are energy markets, these are residential markets and so on and so forth. And finally, I want to say one thing: friends, let's not fool each other. We really need a depoliticized, professional, and equidistant body. Where does it start? From the fact that no official or even an official, because there are no officials in the Office of the President, you understand. No official, either from the Cabinet of Ministers or from the Supreme Council, or from the Office of the President, can even allow himself to make a call to the management of the Antimonopoly Committee, to the regulator of another and to give one (sorry!) Strong advice on what to do, what not to do, like with the Scrooge and the other battalions that are unfolding today. Well, at least once you can send someone to call you and say, "No! I am the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. I'm acting in the interests of Ukraine, and I'm going to report to the D.B.I. next time you press on me." This is the independence of these organs and regulators, not anything else. When their leaders meet their responsibilities and their civil and office responsibilities. So, my friends, I don't know about this bill, there's nothing useful we can see there, and that's why supporting Fatherland is not going to do it. You have to start with what you have -- do an existing law in force, which unfortunately is not being implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, give me six minutes, Buymaster. And then no one's going to speak, and then we can go to the right. And Burmich, how many minutes? One minute, Burmitch. Burmich is one minute. Please. Buymaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u122	Congratulations, dear colleagues. All hail from today's festival. And you know what I want you to say is that Ukrainian statesmanship starts with each of us. And first of all, it starts with this room. And it's very significant that we are looking at such an important reform right now, because statehood starts with us as the Supreme Council of Ukraine conducting a process of reforming state institutions, as we follow democratic and transparent procedures. And I'll tell you why I'm stressing this right now. Four more years ago, as soon as we took office, the Committee on Economic Development's professional subcommittee on a level playing field for business and competition policy began the process of preparing this reform. And the result of this training, which was accompanied by international partners, was the registration of the first 2730 bill, which had not yet been considered by the committee of profile, even though it was registered in January 2020. Instead of taking this complex reform and adopting, refining it, and making a successful case, we have seen the beginning of a culinary struggle in the worst Soviet traditions and post-Radians traditions that have prevailed in the Ukrainian politics for the last 30 years. Alternative laws have started to register one after the other, which actually repeat the 2730 bill in part, but they don't all count one of the most important things. The main sign of the controller's independence, which has a quasi-sodium function, colleagues, and is actually the reference to the market that should have a whistle and a red card and say who to remove from the field of the Ukrainian economy. To date, it is not decided that he should be appointed in an independent manner. The order of appointment and the financial independence of the regulator are the two foundations on which the reform is based, which have been excluded from this stage of reform. And I would very much like David Arachamiah to be present when discussing such an important Euro-Integration Bill, but unfortunately he is not. To confirm that, according to a majority proposal, we have divided this reform into two parts, which is exactly what the majority is voting for the second, more complex political part of it. Where we're going to change the order of the assignment, where we're going to change the order of appointment of the state-authorized and make this institution really independent. If not, then all the risks that colleagues have already mentioned and I can emphasize, we have been struggling with the esbeau chalice for many years, we are now going to get it in greater scope, in the powers of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, which are not now balanced by anything. Because no comments from the market, from the experts, from the business associations, were taken into account, the position of the GNEU was taken into account, the position of the European Integration Committee was taken into account. So, colleagues, when we continue this fourth year in a row, let us bear in mind that we are responsible for how we reform the country, for whether we adhere to the principles that the Armed Forces of Ukraine now fight and our people die. And if we continue to have the culinary process, reopening the committee's decisions to a second reading of three, four times, making amendments agreed in closed offices, behind closed doors, unknown to whom and unknown to whom, we will not be able to build a democratic system in a good way in the country. And we don't build institutions that are the very guarantee of our integration into the European Union and NATO that are supposed to provide, at this stage, the level of conditions for all, the conditions for entry into the market of all players, all businesses and the removal of the political influence of oligarchs. That's what we're fighting for, but that's not exactly what this bill is for. So, colleagues, we have all the materials prepared to make it quality, everything is made and written. Political will is required. Arachamiah, will political will be at the second stage of reform? I'm asking you to confirm that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! Please, one minute, Murmich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u124	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Of course, a wolf can be called a hare, and a wolf can be called a hare, but the point is not changed. You could call this law Euro-Integration, but I think if we accept it, we can get kicked out of associations. Because today the Antimonopoly Committee has enough weights and authority to carry out its work effectively for which it is appointed as a regulator. It's not that it's not constitutional, it's illegal and it's absurd. There are no such functions in any country of the world. That's why we think it's not what it is and not what it's called. Therefore, the "Deliverance of Ukraine" group will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, thank you. All those who wanted to have a say. Now there will be no more performances. We can go for it now. Excuse me. Dear colleagues, if everyone has spoken, we will now move on to the amendments. What? Excuse me, one more minute of Maslov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u126	Thank you. Colleagues, this bill, which provides for changes to the Code of Procedure, foresees a series of actions by the Committee of Antimonopals, including the arrest of property, the description of property, and so on. And unfortunately, I don't think the rules have been correctly prescribed, because there is no order for the removal of this property, no consequences for the appeal of property. We've had a conversation with the head of the profile committee, and I'll ask him to confirm that since this bill is going to take effect on January 1st of next year, by this time the Legal Committee will prepare appropriate changes to the Code of Conduct and they will have to be supported in the room and made changes to take these substantive observations into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm sorry, there's three more minutes, Klimenko, and three minutes, Jurchisin. Take your seats while you're at it, or there'll be some more repairs. Please, three minutes, Klimenko Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I also have a lot of questions before this law and a lot of rights, actually I had over 100 rights. I'm not going to put them on the record or the receipt. I'm just going to say that the law is raw enough, and as we talked to the headmaster of the Antimonopoly Committee, it requires not only the second stage, but also the first stage. Because, unfortunately, it does not take into account the interests of small, medium-sized businesses, it does not understand the procedures in which small economies develop, the medium-sized business will fall under anti-monopoly legislation and the main issue will not be solved is the fight against oligarchs. Because it's more like, let's say, an imitation of fighting an oligarchy than a real fight against an oligarchus. That is why the law, yes, we must accept it, in accordance with the commitments that Ukraine has made to join the European Union and to receive macrofinancial assistance. Sadly, though, the law will not solve any problem that lies before us — the removal of the oligarchs. Disposal of oligarchs in many sectors. Ukraine's economy is not only developing because there is a war in Ukraine, or because we have, for example, expensive lending, but because most sectors of the economy that are profitable and interesting to investors are actually monopolized by individual business groups and individuals, let's say. And unfortunately, this leads to small and medium-sized businesses not being able to develop at all, it can't go from micro to small, from small to medium, from medium to large. This is a major problem for the future economy, especially for post-war Ukraine. So antitrust legislation, as we remember, was the basis for growth, generally for economic development, such as in the United States. After the adoption of antitrust legislation, the United States economy began to develop at an incredible pace. For us, anti-monopoly legislation is also fundamental to economic development. Unfortunately, the option offered by both the committee and proposed by the authors does not solve any of these problems, does not fight oligarchs, does not allow small and medium-sized businesses to have access to monopolies and does not really answer the question of how we will fight monopolies in the market in the future in postwar Ukraine. We have a great risk of creating new oligarchs in postwar Ukraine, because we see that they are already forming.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u129	Thank you. Three minutes, please. And then we move on to the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u130	I'll try to save time and put myself in less. All my changes, which were not taken into account, are aimed at carrying out one of the key own thesis of the program yet then the candidate for President Vladimir Zelensky's strengthening of the peoples of the country. In fact, the problem is that the Ukrainian consumer and consumer union have no possibility at all to engage in the disputes initiated by the Antimonopoly Committee. And there was quite a logical position that in the working group was supported by all the factions about what we would do, strengthen the role of the consumer and their unification in our own disputes. Because it's strange, but for example, when Firtas robs consumers of their gas monopoly, there's no way for consumers to protect themselves through the Antimonopoly Committee. Surprisingly, the entire complex of these rights was banally excluded from the bill, not supported, and it seems there is a promise that some other package of changes will take place. Well, that's nonsense, my friends. We must defend the interests of those who chose us, who sent us to Parliament. So I'm not going to delay time, put on confirmation, but without the protection of consumers and the Antimonopoly Committee as my own consumer mechanism, this reform is doomed, so of course we won't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u131	Thank you, Your Honor. We're done with the performances. No one wants to make any more changes. Let us now move on to the amendments directly. Dear colleagues, 10 amendments. 10 amendments to the European Solidarity faction. Who's going to bet? I can't see. Ivanno Orestovno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! Amendment 133. The edition that is proposed today gives the Antimonopoly Committee real and substantial powers, such as reviewing service facilities, transport facilities, removing, arresting objects, documents, various media that may be evidence in the case. The correction I am proposing is aimed at making.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u133	Ivanno Orestovno, I'm sorry, 133 is not your amendment. Take a look, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u134	Mine. One second.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u135	Now, one second. Colleagues, we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u136	Well, I have mine on the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u137	We have partials in the Fedianco table.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u138	Place an amendment for the time being. I'll go back to them, I'll look at the chart. But I have a table printed and this is 133rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u139	Well, by the way, the table is printed, so simple. Now, then, one second. Because we can't, we want to go through all the adjustments that we can take into account, and then we want confirmation. Let's have a look. One second. What's the amendment, Ivanno Orestovno? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u140	The amendment that I propose that it be the law to foresee how the Antimonopoly Committee can conduct these searches and may have additional powers regarding the conduct of inspections of service facilities, transport facilities and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u141	This is 137 revisions. She's really rejected by the committee, she's your authorship. 137 revisions. Dear colleagues, please take the committee's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u142	Thank you very much. It is provided for an illegal regulator, which is the Antimonopoly Committee, to carry out specific checks. The bill last amended a number of substantive amendments that limit the potential for exceeding the powers of the Antimonopoly Committee, which is the decision of the court. That is, the Antimonopoly Committee is solely out of the judgment and will be able to take appropriate action with the permission of the court. According to the authors, both in terms of general practice and European and American practice, this is sufficient to guarantee that the Antimonopoly Committee is subject to investigation by the Antimonopoly Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, 137 amendments by Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna were rejected by the committee. The author insists on counting. The party's arguments were heard. I'll bet you a vote of 137. Please vote. [[12:14:51]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Ivanna Orestovna, start with the number, and we'll see if it matches. Please have the number next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u144	Well, I have 313, but you're probably saying, by four, 317.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u145	We're watching. Talk to her, Joanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u146	The bill proposes to allow the Antimonopoly Committee to receive any information, including banking, notary and other secrets. Such powers are not given at all by any body currently receiving, even by a court decision, access to bank secrecy. Even the same tax service should clearly indicate the period in which the information is to be provided. So not just any information, there are limitations. So I'm proposing my amendment to the information section of the banking secret to clarify which bank secrecy might be revealed, and this is information about transactions under specific legal accounts.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u147	Ivanna Orestovna, this is 320 revisions. The committee's position on 320 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u148	Thank you, colleagues. Indeed, the issue of the Antimonopoly Committee's access to banking secrecy was a subject of considerable debate, including discussions between two independent regulators: the Antimonopoly and the National Bank of Ukraine. A meeting was held to agree on an amendment on the individual access of the Antimonopoly Committee to banking information. This access is quite cut but sufficient for the Antimonopoly Committee to carry out its functions. Accordingly, the amendment, which is consensual in both the National Bank and the Antimonopoly Committee, is included in the text of the bill. So your amendment was rejected because of taking into account the amendment agreed with the National Bank of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, 320 amendments to Klimpush-Cincadze's authorship were rejected by the committee. You heard the arguments. Please vote for the 320th amendment. [[12:17:24]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Next, please, Joanna Orestovna, number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u150	402. I think that's the right thing to do. Note that the drafters of the bill suggest that the Antimonopoly Committee be given the opportunity to carry out checks, arrests, remove documents at places of residence and other property of the person. And that means that the Antimonopoly Committee can come to any apartment, to any private house, not to mention that it's looking for some kind of distortion in the field of protection of economic competition, which is totally unacceptable. Even law enforcement authorities cannot afford to do so again without a court decision. And I'm surprised that this amendment is rejected. I think that in fact, the person’s residence should not be subjected to such checks by the Antimonopal Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u151	Yeah, that's really 402th amendment. Please give the committee a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u152	Thank you very much. This is one of the most acute themes of this bill. The point is that the situation today with the Antimonopoly Committee and the de facto and de juro is already the authority to carry out checks, but these powers are neither detailed nor written. So the procedure, as it's outside the procedural body, as it's a separate and independent regulator, is not subject to the scope of the procedural codes. Accordingly, this bill details and normalizes the order of such checks and sets out certain red flags. So we're from the general "can conduct checks" to the special and to the specific "maybe, in a way, what it predicts and what it is a test." So this amendment, your amendment was rejected from the point of view of giving details of the antimonopoly committee's verification rather than leaving it to their internal regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, 402nd Amendment, Klimpush-Cincadze. It's rejected by the committee, you've heard the sides. Please vote. [[12:19:44]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Next up, Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u154	I'll be back in order before the 284th. I propose leaving article 22 of the law in a form in which it exists today in existing legislation, since the Antimonopoly Committee has decided to give itself some authority such as a requirement or a written challenge to provide clarifications to the operators. Interestingly, how will the Antimonopoly Committee request or call any legal representatives or, perhaps, other representatives to provide written explanations? It's not a B.B.I., it's not an D.B.I. or any other law enforcement agency. In European structures, antitrust authorities in European countries do not have such powers, corresponding to our AMCA. So I would suggest leaving this article of the Act on the Antimonopoly Committee in its current form.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-07-28-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, 284 amendments to Klimpush-Cincadze. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:21:07]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, air anxiety. As we said, right now we're all going to go through the shelters that are written, painted in you. But given that we won't be able to do that again, I think we'll be able to get together in the hall, so the agenda for today is finished. Thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. Together to victory and glory to Ukraine!
