ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in the context of the state of war" today, we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I point out that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. Therefore, I ask all my colleagues to abide by the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] The country's distinguished national deputies, it takes 574 days for the Ukrainian people and their heroic forces to give a decisive answer to Russia's full-scale criminal aggression. The enemy attacks peaceful Ukrainian cities daily, attacking artillery and drones. In spite of this, Ukraine’s defence forces continue to move forward steadily, causing significant losses to the occupying forces, destroying their ammunition, military technology, step by step, breaking the back of the Racist army. We express our deep gratitude to all those who defend our nation with their weapons, all those who work triumphantly for our victory. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of all those who died in the struggle for freedom, sovereignty, the territorial integrity of Ukraine, all the victims of Russian terror. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform you of your participation in the 21st meeting of the Group of Seven Parliaments, or of the Great Seven, and of the President of the European Parliament. Before participating in this important event, I was also invited as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main but not only purpose of the visit to Japan was to strengthen Ukraine’s parliamentary cooperation with the countries of the Great Seven, the European Parliament, in order to obtain a variety of assistance and support in terms of aggression by the Russian Federation. And the main purpose of the visit was achieved. The parliaments of the Great Seven and the European Parliament have not only confirmed Ukraine’s continued support, but have committed themselves to continuing to interact with their governments to provide assistance to Ukraine for as long as it takes. We discussed in detail the implementation of the Peace formula of President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine, in particular paragraph 5, which provides for the restoration of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. Security assurances for Ukraine were also discussed. In particular, I would like to mention the meeting with the speaker of the US Congressional Chamber of Representatives, Kevin McCarthy, and she has become an important element in strengthening Ukraine's double and double-party support by the United States. The visit to Tokyo has also been an important milestone in the development of the Ukrainian-Japanese partnership. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, the Ukrainian diplomatic marathon for its freedom and independence is ongoing. I want all of us to sincerely wish us success in the diplomatic mission of the President of Ukraine, which, in these days in the United States, unites the world community for our victory. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies. Sergia Anatoliovich Minka, non-fractional. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] And Andrew Andryovich Sharaskin, the Voice faction. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Welcome to the nominees. We wish them good health, strength, and Ukraine’s fastest victory. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I propose that a signal vote be held before the issue begins. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. [[11:11:27]] For-147 137, 3 against, 1 against. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, once again, I appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session, decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the end of our work. Dear National Deputies, a list of issues that were previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council today, are given to you. Let us go to his consideration. Dear colleagues, first of all we have is the presentation of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2024. Dear National Deputies, we turn to the presentation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the Ukrainian National Budget Act of 2024 (registration No. 10000). One second, please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. What's your procedure? We all kind of made a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u2	Honourable Ruslan Alexiyovich, in line with article 154 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules of Procedure, may make a procedural decision at the time of the Council's presentation of the budget to hear the main public budget administrators about the purpose, tasks and performance of the relevant budgetary programmes. So we ask you now to put to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine an offer to invite us here to present the budget of representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Information Policy, the State Administration, the DBR and the BBB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u3	Thank you. I'm putting Arthur Volodymyrovich to the vote. It's a procedural proposition. Please vote. [[11:13:22]] For-74. The decision is not taken. So we follow the procedure agreed upon at the Conciliation Council. Brainy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u4	Ruslan Alexiyovich, good afternoon! Dear colleagues, in the daytime two bills -- 10038 and 10037 -- not all of the alternatives passed the committee, we can't look at them. Or let us wait for the committee’s decision, and only after that will we consider these matters. So far they can't be in the dayroom.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u5	Dmitry Alexanderovich, we've just come into the budget presentation, and as a result, today we've got this issue on the Conciliation Council, and I'm asking the head of the Committee of Roxolan Andriyev Podlas, which is where the decision was made. Please, Roxolano Andriyovno. But, dear colleagues, we are already in the first question. Please, Roxolano Andriyovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention first to the fact that we are now considering the budget of 2024, which does not have a committee decision at all, because this is just a presentation. With regard to the budget in 2023, yesterday the Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted a decision to recommend on the basis and generally the basic bill submitted by the government and all alternatives rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so once again, we have moved on to the presentation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2024 (registration No. 10000). According to part three of article 154 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. In accordance with the Rules, the proposals of the Profit Committee and the agreed decision of the Conciliation Board were proposed the following order for consideration. Presentation of the State Budget project by the Ministry of Finance for up to 10 minutes; responses by the Minister of Finance to questions from the National Deputies for up to 9 minutes; reports by the Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs for up to 5 minutes; answers from the National Deputies for up to 9 minutes; statements by representatives of the MPs and groups for up to 24 minutes (3 minutes for the presentation); statements by the National Deputies for up to 6 minutes (3 minutes for the presentation); speeches by the Ukrainian People's Deputies with a separate opinion for up to 3 minutes. All right, we're up to 70 minutes. Is there no objection? Then let's move on. Honourable National Deputies are invited to present the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2024 by the Minister of Finance Sergey Mihajlovich Marchenko. Up to 10 minutes. Please, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u8	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs! In accordance with the Constitution and the requirements of the Budget Code, the draft State Budget for 2024 is proposed for consideration. The budget next year is the second budget that the government prepares and submits to Parliament for consideration under full-scale warfare. The main difference in this budget is not only the accumulation of maximum resources for the security and defence sectors, but the creation of conditions for the restoration of the domestic defence and industrial complex. So this budget, which is focused on economic development, is for victory. The budget also takes into account the main priorities of the future Ukrainian doctrine, which is presented for discussion by President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine. As far as macroprediction is concerned. The nominal GDP is projected at 7 trillion 825 billion dollars. Real GDP growth is expected at 5 percent. Consumer Price Index (December to December) – 10.8 percent, the increase in exports of goods is 7.5 percent. The general government budget income will be 1 trillion 560 billion dollars, 346 billion dollars more than planned for this year. Income takes into account the conditions of war and is defined on a valid tax basis. Next year we plan to increase revenue by all basic taxes. In addition, as an exception, it is proposed that the general budget of the state budget be directed to the revenues of the road fund and that the military’s VAT be counted as a special fund instead of local budgets. The expected resource from the military PFC is about 100 billion dollars to go into the security and defence sector in the development of the country's GDP. Expenditures from the State Budget General Fund are projected at 3 trillion, 108 billion dollars, an increase of 325 billion dollars this year. The total national security and defence resource in 2024 is 1 trillion 784 billion dollars, about 23 percent of GDP, which is 212 billion dollars more than 2023. In particular, to provide military personnel with 1 trillion 72 billion dollars for the purchase of arms and military equipment, 540 billion dollars, almost 56 billion dollars for the development of OPC, 7 times more than the current year, 48 billion dollars for the development and purchase of drones. Social spending is the next priority of this budget. The estimated amount is 470 billion dollars or 25 billion dollars by 2023. The budget includes an increase in the minimum wage to 710 billion dollars. Sorry, 7 thousand 100 dollars, January and up to 8 thousand, April 2024. The increase is 19.4 percent. Such social programs are also defined. Retirement insurance is 272 billion dollars. The pensions of more than 10 million Ukrainian pensioners will be taken into account on time and again. They will also be indexed in March 2024. Social assistance will be targeted at 137 billion dollars for 5 million people. To pay for the benefits and housing subsidies, 50 billion dollars, 3 million households. Social protection for people with disabilities is nearly 6 billion dollars. To develop social services, it's 1 billion dollars. The veterans' sphere is the next priority of this budget. In support of veterans, there are 14 billion dollars, plus 7.5 billion dollars by 2023. In particular, a veteran assistant institution is established, with 4 billion dollars. To provide rehabilitation and psychological services -- 2.6 billion dollars -- to provide veteran housing for 2,000 people -- is 6 billion dollars. For dental treatments there are 750 million bracelets. To create the National Military Memorial Cemetery, 516 million dollars. For financial support to veterans through the Ukrainian Veteran Foundation, 248 million dollars. In order to properly represent Ukraine in the international arena, there will be 7.5 billion dollars of sports and training for athletes. Next year we have the Olympics, so we have the funds for our athletes to participate in the Olympic Games. Health has 202 billion dollars — 24.4 billion dollars more than the budget in 2023. In particular, in order to implement the health guarantee programme, 159 billion dollars, the centralized purchase of medical supplies -- 10 billion dollars, the purchase of new equipment -- 3 billion dollars, the public health system -- 5 billion dollars. A new service from productive technologies has been introduced, with 1.5 billion dollars planned in the budget. The development of high - precision cancer diagnostic centers is estimated at 1.6 billion dollars. Education is the next priority. There are 179 billion dollars in education, 23 billion dollars more than in the 2023 budget. These include 103 billion dollars for teachers' work, covering cover and barrier-free space, 3.3 billion dollars for the New Ukrainian School programme, including the purchase of textbooks, 3 billion dollars. To buy school buses -- 1 billion dollars -- to modernize school meals as part of the school feeding reform, which is being implemented under the patronage of the first lady -- 1.5 billion dollars. The area of culture is going to get 11 billion dollars. Digital transformation. There are 2.5 billion dollars available. In particular, funds are available to implement innovative projects for the safety and defence sector BRAVE 1 – 1.5 billion dollars and to implement the "Mray" application to ensure access to knowledge. Expenditure on science and science and technology is estimated at 13.5 billion dollars. The budget for 2024 covers more than 24 billion dollars, 4 billion dollars more than the budget in 2023. Expenditures have been increased by the State Judicial Administration and the relevant professional courts. Foreign Ministry spending has increased by 2.2 billion dollars and will amount to over 8 billion dollars. The budget for 2024 provides for the reform of public service salaries. This reform is an important element of the negotiating process for Ukraine's accession to the European Union. Some 31 billion dollars are available for business support. In particular, for the 5-7-9 program, compensation for military rates, industrial parks, business grants, compensation for the cost of domestic manufacturing, for humanitarian exchange. To quickly address the priority needs, there are 45 billion dollars in the contingency fund. These costs will include repairs and construction of military roads. The resources of the local budgets for 2024 are set at 292 billion dollars, 75 billion dollars more than in 2021. In order to compensate for the loss of local budgets and the re-routing of PFCs from the military to the budget, we separately envisioned compensators, we will have a separate additional grant of 33 billion dollars, including we are not planning to remove a reverse grant of 14 billion dollars. Once again, I want to emphasize to you all the tax revenues, the congregations, all of our revenues are focused on the security and defence sectors. Other social costs will be realized by means of funds that will be involved from our partners. Infrastructural projects will be implemented primarily through the costs involved in relevant international financial assistance projects. Almost $43 billion is the cost of external financing that is needed next year. We hope that we will be able to enlist the support of the United States, the European Union, Japan, Canada, other partners and the International Monetary Fund. For the next year, we predict a budget deficit of 20.4 percent of gross domestic product. Let me remind you that this year the budget deficit is 27 percent of the gross domestic product. The government debt will increase by 8 trillion, up to 8 trillion 184 billion dollars, or 104.6 percent of GDP. Government borrowing is planned at 2 trillion 134 billion dollars, including an internal 422 billion dollars. Government debt repayment -- 607 billion dollars, service -- 422 billion dollars. Thank you for your attention. I hope that the draft budget will be processed expeditiously for rapid approval in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u9	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to sign up for a question to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine. Please sign up, dear colleagues. Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u11	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u12	Mr. Minister, please explain the situation where we have a completely incomprehensible reduction in the funding of the Ministry of Defence at a time when the end of the war is not at stake. But at the same time, we're seeing a catastrophic increase in funding for some of these punitive reprisals instead of funding the U.S.S.A., for example, BEB, which increases funding three and a half times. Will they fight instead of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, or will they pursue business or what? More and more, spending on the Supreme Council, on the D.B.I., on the Henprocuratorate, on customs, on the NABU, on all kinds of structures that have nothing to do with the security and defence of Ukraine. Would it not be better now to freeze all expenses, increase expenses on such structures, and give everything to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, security, defence and civil protection? Because, to put it mildly, it looks completely inadequate.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u13	Thank you for asking. I want to say that your message that we're reducing the budget of the security and defence sector is not true. The security and defence sector budget for the following year is rising by 212 billion dollars, including an increase in payroll, including a significant increase in the costs of arms and military special technology. These are the costs that we can now afford within the existing taxes that we're collecting. With regard to expenditure on other organs: they are calculated and calculated, each of these organs can explain separately why the cost increases are going up. So I see no reason to believe that an increase of 100 million per organ can cover our security and defence needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u14	Please give the floor to the National Deputy, Major Oleni Volodymyrovny, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u15	Please pass the word to Roxolani Podlasi.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u16	Roxanne Andriyovn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u17	Sergey Mikhailovich, good afternoon! Thank you for the presentation. Please tell me, as far as I know, a reform of public service salaries has been introduced into the draft budget for 2024. Can you explain in more detail what it will be like, and why it is needed right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u18	The issue of public service pay is no less important than the financing of the security and defence sector. We have found ourselves in a situation where most quality professionals who work and work in the public service are forced to leave their jobs because of uncompetitive conditions of pay and because in some ministries or offices the wages may be higher, including the fact that the corresponding laws provide increased allowances. We have a particularly suffering international bloc, international experts go to work on the market, as well as professionals who have long formed the institutional capacity of ministries and authorities. Therefore, in order to align the pay system in the public service and to take one of the important steps that brings us closer to the European Union, we are already in the budget for the 2024 break-up and financing of the salary for the grades, we will divide the positions for the "family of posts" according to the contribution, according to the analytical work that is being done, by ranking the relevant bodies. And I hope that this will allow us to increase the capacity of state institutions, increase their competitiveness and allow us to mobilize substantially, including institutional mechanisms to protect our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u19	Please give the floor to Eugenia Volodymyrovich Shevchenko, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Sergey Mikhailovich, I have a question like this, you may not answer. I'm right here, on the left, here I am. It's rhetorical. Please tell me, why do we have such a thing in the country that no one thinks about the economy at all? I'm looking. I'm here to support Fedina, because the cost of the baby, of all the law enforcement agencies, they're growing, and at this point in time, tax, for example, they don't want to just, they just don't want to issue alcohol licenses, they don't want tobacco. I, my dear colleagues, pay attention, this is a very important question, and I think we need to take this initiative and hand over the license to tobacco, to the sceptre and other things that are very important to the Ministry of Economics, because you've been so busy with this business with Gethmantz, and you still have Shurma sitting in the Office of the President, and you're already reaching the end of this business. When he works, we don't know. I don't know why we need the Treasury if you're run by the Gethmans and.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u21	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u22	Let's talk about the economy. In support of the economy, there are new and unprecedented programmes of 31 billion dollars. It's not like this before, it's the first time. There's also networking, support for industrial parks and other things that are very important. I think this will provide the necessary incentives for the development of the domestic economy. In addition, 96 billion dollars are available for the development of the defence and industrial complex and for the development of the new technology and weapons system. How can this be called not an incentive to the economy? This is an economic stimulus, these are new jobs and these are taxes that will be paid in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u23	Thank you. The Gethmans, would you like to use the right to a replica? Please, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u24	Thank you. In the context of the reply and the right to reply, I would like first of all to thank the Minister of Finance for preparing a quality document, a quality budget of 2024 and the correct priorities that the Cabinet of Ministers has set out in this budget. Of course, first priority is defense and security, and costs are rising accordingly. The second priority is social. We're doing an indexation of pensions in war, we're raising education costs, we're raising medical expenses, because we understand that socially vulnerable types of people need additional support in the war. And the third priority is what the colleague was talking about, it's business support. Despite the war, even though we collect taxes even less than we need to defend ourselves, we provide business support programs, large-scale business support programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u25	You've got some kind words. All right. It's beautiful, it means there's a compromise in the room. Please, Queen-Usova Valentina Juryevna, your question to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u26	Good afternoon! Please give the word to Kisilev Dmitr Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u27	Dmitri Davidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u28	Sergey Mikhailovich, good afternoon! Dmitry Kisilevski, town of Dnipropetrovsk, Dnipro. I want to thank you for the priorities that are reflected in the budget, and you said very well that this is a development of the economy to win. And it was very important to see that in this budget there are costs for the development of weapons production, for the development of drones, and for other programs that contribute to the development of high-tech production in Ukraine. It's very important. At the same time, I would like to ask such a question. 1.6 trillion dollars for defense. We all remember the purchase of Turkish jackets and other expenses that could have been incurred in Ukraine and brought taxes to the Ukrainian budget, but the Ministry of Defence spent them on imported goods while depriving the country of taxes. How do you, as the Ministry of Finance, see more efficient use of this money, which is defined in the defence budget, in order for them to create jobs in Ukraine, and so that we can at least take some of the taxes back from this money into the state budget for further financing the needs of our defence and victory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u29	Thank you. An important question. We've always really been in favor of channeling a huge budget on. which are provided for the development of weapons, for the development of domestic designs, for the purchase of arms in domestic manufacturers. And so I hope that the incentives that we're putting in place right now and the changes that are taking place in the Ministry of Defense will allow us to see a radical overview of approaches to arms purchases, radical approaches to where and how we're going to stimulate. Because I think it's a strategic approach to develop weapons and provide your own army with your own weapons. Because even the weapons that come to us as international technical assistance, those ammunitions and other means, first of all, they come in time, and second of all, they're not always enough. Therefore, the creation of a domestic OPC is a decision, a long-term solution that will allow us to secure the security and defence of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u30	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. Please take your place. Ladies and gentlemen, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Rocsolán Andriyov Podlas is invited to report. Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, Mr. Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, under the law, I must inform you that the Cabinet of Ministers has submitted the State Budget Bill for the year 2024 to the Supreme Council in due time, and today's submission of this document is in accordance with the legislative requirements. The Minister of Finance has just presented the basic parameters of the budget project, and I want to briefly stop at some of them. The budget of 2024 is the budget of the warring country, where one clear priority is defence. The cost of safety and defence in the project is fixed at the level of 2023 — 1 trillion 690 billion dollars or 21.6 percent of the gross domestic product. Although, in advance, we should say that in the near future, you and I will adopt the next budget change in 2023 and increase this year's total defence expenditure to 1 trillion 900 billion dollars. The year 2024 is to be a sign year for the domestic production of weapons and ammunition. 55.8 billion dollars is proposed for the Ministry of Strategic Industry to target weapons and shells in Ukrainian enterprises. 48 billion dollars is proposed to be allocated to the DDR for the production of drones and anti - drone systems. Both of these programs will provide a powerful stimulus to industrial production in Ukraine and will contribute to a five - percent increase in gross domestic product. But it must be understood that this resource for the production of weapons and ammunition in Ukraine will only arise if the national deputies vote for the transfer of the tax on the income of military personnel to the state budget. Today, the Supreme Council will consider this bill under the heading 10037. The second priority of the budget is, as usual, the social sphere. Some 469 billion dollars are offered to support Ukrainians who have come under different difficult circumstances or who have reached retirement age. For the following year, there is an increase in national social standards. First, the minimum wage increases, first to 7,000, 100 dollars, and then to 8,000 dollars. This means that the state establishes a rule: no institution and no business can pay a Ukrainian who works less than 8,000 dollars a month because the real cost of living has increased significantly since 2022, when the last minimum wage has been reviewed. Veterans’ support expenditure has increased considerably, including the implementation of programmes and measures of veteran politics, projected expenditure of 14.3 billion dollars, which is 2 times the cost of the current year. Of these, 2.6 billion will target the physical and psychological rehabilitation of veterans. One of the biggest differences from the 2023 budget is the reduction of infrastructure and construction expenditure. Considering that the new budget was planned according to the principle: each dollar earned in Ukraine to win. Therefore, the draft budget does not provide for capital expenditure and construction costs, except for the 3 billion 300 million dollars that are earmarked for the construction of shelters in schools and kindergartens. The government suggests that the construction of roads, repairs of buildings, and the construction of sports, cultural, and humanitarian facilities be avoided. Instead, unforeseen expenditure on objects destroyed by the Russian Federation and military fires or roads that require urgent repair for the needs of the front will be financed by a contingency fund. Some 45 billion dollars are available for these needs. To support business in 2024, the government is proposing to wager nearly 30 billion dollars. In accordance with Rule 154 of the Rules, I must inform you, honourable national deputies, that the bill complies with the requirements of the Budget Code. The project is prepared under current tax legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u32	Thank you, Rocsolana Andriyevna. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the committee head in nine minutes. Please sign in. Please, Dmitry Alexanderovich, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u33	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Rocsolana Andriyovn, please tell me, in this budget as in the past, did you decide to blow up the Ukrainian army by forgetting about 30,000 extras, 100,000 extras and so on? Are all the funds to be paid to the Ukrainian Armed Forces and to the defence forces by the end of 2024? Will it come out again in December or in January, the secretary of defense will say, "We've been asked by the army to take the 30th to the military, take the 100th, take the wages away, or will it happen in the future?" Please answer that question. And tell me who's going to be responsible if again it's a propaganda that doesn't correspond to the budget of the war state, it's going to correspond to the budget of the state that's buying 17 eggs, winter jackets as summer jackets, 52 apples, shelter designers, and so on. Can you guarantee a full payment to our defenders?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u34	So many questions right now, I'll try to answer them all. One, as I said before, 1 trillion 690 billion dollars are directed at the need for defense in the state budget. I think in 2024 we're going to be looking at this budget in the direction of increasing defence spending. With regard to specific payments, they are set up by the Cabinet of Ministers for the submission of the Ministry of Defence, including the submission of a new defence minister for whom, I recall, more than 300 national deputies voted, almost a constitutional majority. I think we gave him a mandate of trust to put an order in the Ministry of Defense so that such shameful cases as the theft of the Ukrainian army would cease. I am sure that with the new Secretary of Defense, we will not see an egg of 17 or an old jacket instead of a winter jacket, but that Parliament will support our defense forces in providing them with all the financial resources they will ask of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u35	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, Burmich Anatoly Petrovich, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, please. Dear Head, please pass the word to your colleague Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u37	Please, Shevchenko Evgen Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u38	Roxolano Andriyovno, I couldn't get past you, we're your colleagues from the Economic Committee, I have a question. When will you give order to your department of profile? When they start. One more question. When will they begin to issue without hindrance all the licences that are legally bound to be issued? When will what they're doing, this racket, the racket of business stop in Ukraine? When you're a committee member, a deputy economic committee, you can do it in your area, in the budget area, once again, all ministers, tax, they're collecting these budgets, but they don't think about tomorrow, they're just pecking, racketeering, businessmen pushing every time. You have this possibility, and you're at the President's Office, so please tell them what they're doing. They don't even think about tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u39	Roxanne Andriyovn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u40	Eugene Volodymyrovich, thank you very much for such an important question. We share the responsibility for the work of the Ministry of Finance with the Tax Committee, Mr. Danil Getmanchev's committee. I'm going to ask him to take the line and comment on how to put the tax order in place. As for the Committee on Budgets, we are primarily interested in having all the revenue fully collected at 1.7 trillion dollars, as set out in the State budget. Because if we have a tax or customs charge in the next budget, unfortunately, we can't fund the defense sufficiently, so it's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u41	It's a good word. Danilo Aleksandrovitch, are you going to rephrase? Let's go after the discussion if you want. Mokan Vasil Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People", please. Do you take your word for it? Yeah, okay. Let's move on. The word is given to Pavel Rostislav Mikolaiovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u42	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u43	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u44	Please tell me, what did the budget save as a result of the reform of the civil servants' salaries you were talking about all last year, specifically what amount did you save? And the second. Have they reviewed all the expenditure on all the arrangers in part of the overall expenditure and optimized it, as proposed last year in all the budget amendments? How much did the budget save as a result of this work, two digits?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u45	We have not yet actually saved anything because this reform has not begun its work. You're right that we discussed Bill 8222 all last year and even voted it out in the first reading. And what is now budgeted is derived from Bill 8222. Thus, the Ministry of Finance concluded and the National Agency of Public Service concluded that the bill, which describes the principles of this reform, would not require additional expenditure from the State budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u46	Please give the floor to national MP Saladusi Olga Valeriyovni, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Dmitri Razumkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u48	Thank you. Rocksolana Andriyevna, there are many questions -- there are no answers, as always. You don't talk about what you think, you're the head of the committee, you report to the state budget, you give the facts. Do the questions we have foreordained, and I repeat, all the funds needed to pay the wages and additional rewards to our defenders? And do you have a personal responsibility to the defense if there is not enough money? You don't just sit there and get paid, you don't get paid for beautiful eyes, you get paid for working there and you have to finish this budget. If you haven't done it, return it to the government, if you don't have that money, then return it to the government. If there is, say there is, we vote, and then you will be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u49	The budget of 2024 provides for all the statutory payments for our military personnel, everything they are provided for by law, the government's decision will pay first. The only treasury account and the Treasury makes payments for the military’s first financial security, is what they call protected expenses. If we need more money to buy technology, and we always need it, and the front always needs it, if we need more ammunition and drones, we're going to make changes to the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, and this, I think, is the final question, Makarov Oleg Anatolyevich, faction of the political party "The Voice"
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u51	Please give Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u52	Please, Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u53	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Dear Mrs. Roxolano, it is obvious that it is rightly noted that in 2024 the maximum number of expenditures should be directed towards the security and defence sector is supported by all. But please tell me that the Minstretegprom and the State Department provide substantial additional costs. And already in this budget, they're going to be taken from military PFCs from the community. Do you realize how high the risks are for communities? That's the first question. And the second. Do you know that the military themselves are addressing us as national MPs, turning to local self-government authorities and sounding things that make it much easier for them to get help from local self-government authorities to repair technology, to buy cars, antiques or other things, than through complex budgetary bureaucratic procedures to get it all from the top. Do you not see this as an attack on the reform of decentralization and the decline in the financial capacity of the community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. We fully support the cooperation of local authorities directly with the brigades. We believe that, personally, I cannot speak here as a whole for the entire committee, that it is necessary to adopt Bill 9559-d, which would fully regulate in the legislative field the possibility for communities to transfer funds for military purposes. We have this proposal in the Budget Code. We're saying that we can and must support the Defense Force. And we're also saying that local self-governance for now has 201 billion dollars of unexploited remnants that can and should be directed to the fullest extent to the need for defence. I will be grateful to all the communities that will direct their remains to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, this will be the right and stately position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u55	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Roxolano Andriyevno. Take your place, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speeches by the MPs and groups. I remind you that it takes three minutes to perform, together, up to 24 minutes. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. The word is given to Paul Andrievich Bakuntz, the MP's "Trust". Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u56	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished minister of profile, distinguished nationals, dear Ukrainians! We're with you today on the threshold of approval, actually, of the military budget, and you and I understand that it's a hard-developed, uncomplicated time of war between Russia and Ukraine. And in order to win, perhaps our country needs huge capital, and besides the brave hearts of Ukrainians, in addition to the wise investments of Ukrainians, we need huge funds to win. And this budget actually says that we have to take care of the bravest Ukrainians on the battlefield today. So this budget is almost half the cost of defense, of our domestic defence and industrial complex. And that's right, because these unique Ukrainian designs, especially drones, need to be supported, we need to multiply, they're the ones that will help our advocates win the victory we want. And of course, we need to grow and produce weapons and ammunition in our country so that we can provide our own Ukrainian soldier. And I also want to talk about veterans, whose costs are also high for the next year, for the rehabilitation that will be necessary -- both psychological and physical rehabilitation. It is clear, then, that this too should be addressed in the new budget. But the budget is not just spending, it's budget, it's all about income, which, half of which we're collecting from Ukrainian taxes, is going to defend, the other half that we're going to get, we believe, international partners are actually going to go to social protection. Also among incomes, it is important to talk again and again about the fact that the budget already includes VAT revenues, that is, the salaries of military personnel. And you and I understand very well that we can't leave the community without the salaries of the military. You and I understand very well that we can't leave them alone, the community, with the problems they'll face next year. This is also the support of medicine, which is the support of education, since relatives, families of our military personnel live in communities and need to be supported. So I'm paying attention, Mr. Secretary of Profile, to the honorable government, in order to find a normal balance and leave the possibility of communities in the coming year.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u57	Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u58	The position of the Fatherland faction will be sounded by Julius Timoshenko, leader of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u59	Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u60	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland. Dear friends, note that the country's budget for the following year, the warring country, is being considered in a semi-empty room and with an empty cabinet bed, because this government, this authority, in general, does not care about Parliament, because Parliament has turned into a service staff into such a comprehensive corruption that it is. This is no longer a parliament. As far as the budget is concerned. It's not a claim that I'm going to speak to the finance minister because it's a claim to the ruling team of Ukraine and primarily to the government. This is a budget that never in the country, even in the face of war, could have been because it is a budget that exceeds the income of the borrowing budget. Do you understand what this is? This means that the budget lives on loan, not just because we have a war, but because it is the result of a completely destructive economic, financial policy of the real economy. We have our real economy sector -- our producers, our industries, our entrepreneurs, our agriculture -- they're stuck in a corner where it's impossible to work properly for them and, as a result, pay in the budget. Look at the state of our business today, all of our businesses. Legal persons. First of all, corruption. They're surrounded by people who can't work. Second, repression, which is the basis for corruption. Thirdly, the lack of credit is complete, total. How can we develop an economy? Frozen tax returns on an added value on a corrupt basis, you don't pay off, you don't freeze VAT returns. Please tell me how agrarians can survive if there's not a penny of money in the budget to buy at least 5 million tons of grain in the state reserve, and give real economy the issue, not the social cost. The hopeless, free economic policy that has led us today to pay off debts and debt servicing this year, we need 1 trillion 28 million. Where's the debt restructuring, where's the real job to unload the budget? I've never seen anything so unprofessional. A pitiful, worthless social policy and a reduction in expenses on defense, on veterans, on military, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u61	Please, Olga Valerian Saladuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Dmitri Razumkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u63	Olga Valerievna, I'm sorry, we're now in a position of factions and groups. I have information that Dmitri Alexanderovich is not part of the faction that you represent. Wait a second, this is for the national MPs. We have the next stage. So, Mrs. Olga Valeriano, either report it to or pass it on to someone from the faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u64	Article 25, paragraph 2, of the Rules, may be passed on to Dmitri Razumkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u65	I say again, we're in a special procedure called budget review. And the budget review represents the representation of factions and groups. So please. [[B in m in s a l in]] These are special procedures -- 154th and so on. Are you passing it on to someone or are you giving up on behalf of the faction?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u66	Alexia Leonov, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u67	Please, Alexei Leonov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the power to defend Ukraine in heavy battles, step by step pushes the enemy out of our land. Everyone on the front and talking to the military knows what they're talking about first: give up your weapons, give me more weapons. And we must give a proper response to the call of those who pay the highest price for our freedom and independence. We are grateful to our partners and allies for their help, but it does not cover up all the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So we need to mobilize all available internal resources to give our defenders modern technology and ammunition. As our President has said, absolutely all elements of the state's work must be set up so that we can, ourselves here in Ukraine, determine the time of the end of this war by our victory. In this context, the government's proposal to include a portion of the PDF from financial security, rewards and other payments of military and police personnel to the special fund of the Ukrainian State Budget is a perfectly logical and timely step. In addition, the budget’s income is calculated according to Law 10037. There can be no excuse for the situation where the balance of local budgets today is over 200 billion dollars, and this powerful resource does not work for our victory, and we all know that the main source of these surpluses is military PFC. In recent times, there has been a need to hear language that the government wants to take something away from the local budgets. Fellows, let us not play with words when it comes to the lives of our warriors and the independence of our state. We all know that the government will not take any bracelets from the local budgets that have been earned by the local authorities. Even after the military PFC is mobilized to the budget, local budgets will have 75 billion dollars more at their disposal than in the pre-war 21st year. In this way, the financial needs of the territorial communities will be fully met. And finally, the last thing we need to pay attention to is everyone who really wants to win. No local budget can attract the production of drones or ammunition, it can only be centralized by the cost of the state budget. So if we call things our names, the question is either by our inaction we will increase the risk of losing Ukraine, or we will make a decision that will allow us, as the President has said, to have our weapons that will achieve all the goals that Ukraine needs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u70	Honorary colleagues, officials of the government, are already the second draft of the government's national budget developed by the government during a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Could this budget be better? We think so. But at the same time, could he have been worse? Obviously so too. We have the budget that the government we've assigned you to. Although in some ways they were able to surprise us. In particular, once again we see an increase in the minimum wage, the minimum wage, the minimum of living, at first sight a helpful and tangible increase in the cost of defending the target. Finally, the designs of government production programs and centralized procurement of drones and military equipment are reviewed. The financing of national security and defence is in line with the demands of wartime and should contribute to the security of our state. It's an axiom that has to be put into the state budget project. This project, however, is not yet approved and can hardly be approved of the complete removal of military, police, and emergency services from local budgets. And it's not just what we've been talking about lately, and it's not just the problem with the stadiums, but we understand that all Ukrainian citizens, most Ukrainian citizens, have given up their last copies and spent on cars and drones for the military. However, most of the local communities, on the first call, directed and channeled free funds to the military forces in their territory. Therefore, the achievements of decentralization of the last prewar years need not be completely undermined. In addition to this, the draft budget provides for a reduction in grants to many local budgets. And we're not talking about communities where there's more than a billion VAT dollars. What does the government want to achieve — practically all communities’ deficits? Why has customs not yet been reformed? Because if the system is there, astronomical sums can be accumulated according to a number of experts. Why is there a real reform of the tax administration system? Why does the name "Economic Security Office" not always refer to reporting less pressure on entrepreneurs, cutting down the node of problems that businesses face at all levels of tax collection and payment, but because of the prism of scandals and the inefficient use of the funds allocated to them? I think we're taking this draft budget into account, we're starting to work with it, we're starting to fill it with the real meaning of the problems that we have in our communities, and only if it's improved can we vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u71	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich, the European Solidarity Group. Peter Alexiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary, I think you will be distracted from very important discussions. I would like to point out that this is the first time that we have accepted such an important document at such an important time, without having the principals, that this room has refused to listen to them without having a government. And Mr. Secretary, I have no questions about him, he's competent, he's professional, since he was on my team. But today he is a lawyer of his own. This budget is not written in the Ministry of Finance. This logical budget: Parliament, we, the Supreme Council, are representatives of the people, not a place for discussion. And I think the logic of this is to reduce funding and defense during the war and increase funding for the cartel. Why is the baby getting bigger? Why is it that the persecutors of businesses are increasing? And because of this, they're going to increase economic growth. To give more milk, the cow needs to be fed less and milked more. I have a déjà vu when, in 2021, in October, we put the draft changes into the budget to increase military funding before the war, and we were told it was unnecessary. When we asked to take the money out of the road fund, to transfer it to combat COVID, we were told it was unnecessary. Now that they're taking money to the Minstretegprom, they're telling us it's for defense. What in the hell did you think the Minobrans were supposed to buy only from foreigners, not at their own expense to stimulate local production? If you want to stimulate Minstrategprom yourself, give a budget loan to at least say that this money is not going to be stolen, as it is now going on for 600 days, and eventually it will go back to the state budget. This is a European principle. And the principle of looting, tomorrow they're going to organize that this production is going to be blown up, and the money, the tens of billions will be written off. Take the money away from the "investment" that destroys the competitive environment. Take the money to industrial parks and then make all that money to the Ministry of Defense. The principle that must be respected is that no one raises costs outside the Ministry of Defence, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, our soldiers. Praise to the Armed Forces of Ukraine and glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u73	Please, Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u74	People's MP Skork, MP for Life and Peace. Honorable Presidium, Honourable Minister, Honorable Colleagues and Honourable Citizens of Ukraine. First of all, I would like to report that today at the meeting of the group we considered the project and unanimously decided to support the draft budget for 2024. Our group fully shares the priorities reported today by the Minister of Finance, who has set up the government and implemented in this project the Ministry of Finance as part of the fact that the main priority is defence, is social protection, is development in this difficult situation of our economy. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for his professional conduct in this part. And I think we should stop practicing politics in this room, in economic terms. We all understand that this budget has a lot of problems, and with regard to what is increasing, the government debt of Ukraine is increasing significantly, and in part other economic indicators. But this isn't about that right now, I think we need to support this budget in order for Ukraine to stand and win. But there's one question that you really can't go past and talk about today is Bill 10037. So I'm going to give a little example of my native Odessa region. As a result of the implementation of the Odessa Bill, the area will lose out next year, and local budgets will lose 4.8 billion dollars, from which the district budget will lose 1 billion and 3.8 -- local budgets. It has to be understood that it's not the costs of asphalt or vegetable or drums, it's the cost of the first basket of government budget revenue, under which protected expenditure is planned. I'm sorry, not the state budget, but the local budgets. So we have a serious threat that they won't get paid by teachers, doctors, or anything like that. I don't think that's what Ukraine needs in military time. If we talk about what's going to happen in places, these local communities won't be able to contain this money, and we're going to have a pretty serious problem. So I would like to stress once again that this will require very much attention from the government. The minister was talking about inter-budget transfers, and I find it very difficult to understand how the government budget would be able to cover this deficit for local budgets. And once again, this is going to have some serious consequences. And in general, we have to support the state budget and move on and win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyyovich, deputy group "Delivery of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u76	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Parliament entered the budget process. The government carried out a legislative initiative and submitted a draft of the State Budget, as it should be, by September 15th next year. This is the third annual resource within the framework of a large - scale war. In fact, every penny made in Ukraine goes to finance security and defence. Among other things, almost 104 billion dollars will go to the development of the country's OPC and the purchase of drones, and the state is giving almost everything to ensure that the defence forces of Ukraine are able to do everything they need. The civilian portion of the expenditure will be covered by the help of our partners, grants, loans, and other loans. Nevertheless, the State budget will be balanced. We have repeatedly stressed the need to increase the social standards of Ukrainians in the "Delivery of Ukraine" group. Ask people on the street how much harder life has become. We have achieved that the following year we will see a gradual increase in the minimum wage from 6,000,700 dollars to almost 8,000 dollars from the second half of next year. The average monthly wage, in turn, will increase to nearly 22,000 dollars from 18,000 in this year. There will also be an improvement in the subsistence minimum, as well as an increase in pensions. In particular, a pension index for millions of Ukrainian pensioners will be carried out in March. Significant progress has also been made in part of the social support of our citizens. In particular, spending on housing subsidies will increase by a third, amounting to nearly 50 billion dollars. Similarly, there are over 250,000 low - income families in support. Instead, social protection for people with disabilities and children with disabilities will increase by 70 percent. The support of local self - government will increase by 33 billion dollars. The following year, too, will require further restoration of Ukraine. More than 62 billion dollars are planned for the rapid recovery of damaged and damaged housing, energy and critical and social infrastructures, and humanitarian demining. In a word, this year he's also taking turns and the "Resurrection" program. Today, 12,000 Ukrainian families have received housing repairs, and work is also under way for destroyed housing. At the same time, according to the deputy group "Deliverance of Ukraine" the program needs conceptual development. First of all, we need to provide compensation for people who have already done their jobs at their own expense and with the restoration of housing. Second, we need to talk about the victims of the military aggression since 2014, not from 2022. And thirdly, it has to be about all the occupied territories, not just those that are under Ukraine's control.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u77	Thank you. Please final report, Kostenko Rostislav Vasilovich. I understand you're going to pass the word, right? Vasilchenko Galina. Please, Galina Vasilchenko. Please turn on Vasilchenko Galina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u78	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, dear Ukrainians! It is clear that during the war, our budget must first and foremost be directed to the defence and security of the state. And we really see in this draft budget that all the costs that the state will internally earn and receive in the form of taxes will be directed towards the relevant sector. We also see that the draft budget provides that twice the cost of supporting veterans will be increased, which is absolutely logical, correct and appropriate. But we don't understand at all why in the draft budget the cost of the Bureau of Economic Security (BEB) is increasing three and a half times? Why does the cost of Minstrategprom, which we have seen so little at present, increase by 7 times? And we definitely don't agree with the rules that are meant to take all the military VAT out of the local budgets in a state budget in the way that the government proposes. Even in our faction there are several legislative alternatives. For example, Vladimir Tsabal suggests that such military PFCs, if taken, would be used mainly for salaries to the military. My colleagues and I have passed an alternative bill, which we propose 50 by 50:50 percent to take to the Special Forces and use the rest for defense, and 50 percent to leave in the community and limit non-critical expenses. So that communities can help their TROs so that communities can build fortifications, use these funds to shelter, repair schools, hospitals, support rehabilitation centers. In our opinion, this will help preserve the financial capacity of the territorial communities, which will stop the attack on local self-government and one of the most successful reforms in Ukraine – the reform of decentralization. So we're going to present our legislative alternatives and we're going to ask you not to support the government's proposal to take all the military PFCs out of the community. Moreover, I would like to point out that, for the next year, many communities, working with the European Union to participate in international projects, are making co-financing of these projects in their budgets. This morning, I had Zoom with more than 30 heads of the community that sounded like this problem to me and that they would just not be able to co-finance international projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished speaking from factions and groups. Let's move on to the second block: speeches by national MPs. I'm asking the National MPs to sign up for the speech. Please give the floor to the national deputy, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the faction of "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u80	Give it to the Cabal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u81	Vladimir Volodymyrovich Cabal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I really want to join what my colleague just said to Galina Vasilchenko. But I would also like to highlight a few important points in this draft budget. In fact, in terms of macroeconomic parameters, we tend to think that this draft budget is fairly balanced and quite realistic. Of course, we understand that the Ministry of Finance will now have a very difficult task of negotiating with our partners, with our donors, to provide the funding that will be necessary for the adoption of this budget. We understand that very well, so we don't use different populist slogans to say that there is a need to increase funding everywhere. But there's one particular nuance where we as a faction will work for the second reading, including the committee, with the Ministry of Finance to take this into account. In particular, I'm talking about what's already been said about funding the Ministry of Defence, namely programs funded by the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I just want to say that, according to this draft budget of the Ministry of Defence funding, the general and special fund will decrease by 280 billion dollars compared to this year, taking into account the draft Law 10038, which we are going to vote on today. So we want to cut the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by 20 percent. Of course, I understand that this is just the first version of the budget, and most likely, like last year, we will vote for further changes. But I want us to be able to show ourselves and our partners the real need for funding before the first reading, not some first need, which we will then be voting on in March, May, and again in September to increase. So this is the key point that we're going to be working on before the first reading. And in general, we really understand the complexity of the problem for the government, for the Ministry of Finance, these numbers that we vote for, they're not yet secure and there's really going to be hard work. So, colleagues, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u83	Thank you. Please give the floor to national deputy Mikishi Dmitr Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u85	Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u86	How you don't want to hear the truth. You told everyone in 2019 that we were going to enact laws. Yeah? Otherwise it won't work. So I'm going to inform the Chief of the Supreme Council that the 152nd view, the presentation of the budget is going on full-time. This is article 30 of the Rules. And according to paragraph 2 35 of the Rules, a national MP has the right to transfer to anyone. If the Rules have not been studied in four years, perhaps you should do something else. Now, ask me a question. Dear colleagues, you are now accepting a budget based on the fact that you are destroying parallel local self-government and the economy. Another law you want to take away the PDF — local PDF, which, unlike many in the 24th, did not go to the Carpathians, stayed in their seats, and organized defenses, and ensured the activities of their communities. And some went to Uzhgorod, went to Zakarpatja, went to Lviv, Ivano-Frankowishte. You're also destroying business by returning checks. You've accepted the change of 8401 and you've returned to the budget as much as 4.7 billion dollars, against the backdrop of the next budget of 3.3 trillion is nothing at all. And you vote for it, and you're going to vote again for the return of full checks and you're going to destroy the economy. Your external debt has passed by 100 percent of GDP — by 100 percent! Your debt to our external partners has increased again. You have a budget deficit of 50 percent, and now you don't even listen to what the finance minister told you, a committee head who can't say whether he's going to provide an army with money or not, where the money goes, how it's going to be spent, what you're betting on supporting business. Where is credit, where help to citizens, where programs to return citizens to Ukraine? Where's the budget? It's not there, it's a very convenient answer. No tax, no customs, no money. That's convenient. Don't smile! You will smile when they come back from the front and ask you questions: What have you done to be filled with customs and taxes? You have 12 billion bribes per month. Take it, make it to the budget. No, you're not, and you're going to vote for it again. And last year, you're going to go back and tell me that there's no money for the army, that it's all populism to pay back our defenders. Set priorities for yourself and see where the state moves.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u87	If you'll excuse me, there's a short reaction. I think we could have forgotten the Rules by now. So I want to go back to part three, where it's clear that every faction has the right to speak out of any question of the order of the day. And with these primitive and childish machinists, using some incomprehensible stuff, you have to have a little bit of restraint. Thank you. With motive? Bujanski, with a motive, please. But only with motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u88	I'm motivated. I would like to remind the honorable Dmitri Alexanderovich that 4 billion dollars is nothing! It's almost the full cost of the airport in Dnipri. This is almost the full cost of forming one new brigade of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. It's nothing! It is not part of Ukraine’s government budget for extra money.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u89	Maxim Arkadyovich, thank you. Maxim Arkadyovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, the name was not given. Dear colleagues, we are still in line with the third part of article 30 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I give the floor to the national deputy of Honcharenko Alexiyyyovich, who has a separate opinion, and under the Rules he has the right to speak, please, as a member of the committee. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u90	Thank you very much. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Yes, my friends, I have a separate opinion about this budget and it sounds very simple -- it's the budget of victory in elections, not the victory in war! This is the main thing that we can see. Why can I say that? Why can I talk about it? Well, please, I'm just, you know, with numbers to make everything clear. I see that now our people's servants don't listen very much, maybe at least they'll look. Please: The economy is added 7 times, 7 times the economy. Please. Let's multiply by 7. Look, please, we're increasing the budget of Mineconomy. Let's move on. It's a mini-policy plus 23 billion, plus 23 billion Minsoc. Please. Let's move on. Mincult is another 2 billion. Well, obviously, we've got to get the show on, something's got to be done on 95th. It's all clear. Plus 2 billion of Mincult, and what's that? If you think an increase in the cost of the Minieconomics is going to go to entrepreneurs, but no, friends. First of all, ask any entrepreneur today what's most important to him, so that his rockets don't fall on his head or kill his employees or his own, or that he has some credit. Because we know who the loans will be, the loans will be theirs again, the dollars and the smurfs will be loans, not entrepreneurs. Next, it's the budget of the penal authorities. Please, the Bureau of Economic Security will multiply the budget three and a half times, three and a half times. Next, D.B.I.: plus 55 percent. Wow, okay, all of the President's Office's orders are well implemented. Tax: plus 40 percent. Customs is a plus. Everything's plus, plus. Guys, if everyone has a plus, who has a minus? The simple question is, who has minus? And, my friends, the Minibars. Mine defences: minus 68 billion. Once again, minus 68 billion dollars for the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine. Look, please, this is the election budget: putting something on the social market, something to steal through the means of supporting the enterprise, putting everyone through the penal system, and taking money from the main one -- from our victory, because only the Mini-Defense can win. Neither the baby nor the customs will give us a victory. Stop, everything has to go to the army and win the real one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the presentation of the Ukrainian National Budget Act for 2024 has been completed. Please, I understand that there will be one proposal: Arthur Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, prepare, please. Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u92	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! We've just heard terrible figures about this budget. And this is definitely not a budget for our victory, and this is a budget for oppression of entrepreneurs, oppression of Ukrainians, oppression of the population of Ukraine. That is why, Ruslan Alexiyovich, in accordance with part four of article 154 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I ask you to put to the vote a motion to reject the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for the 24th year as one that does not meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, you have understood that in accordance with part four of article 154 of the Rules, a national MP has the right to make a motion to reject this draft of the State Budget of Ukraine for the following year. And taking advantage of this right, the Herasim people's deputy proposes to reject this draft budget. Dear colleagues, I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. [[12:34:00]] For-44 This proposal is not accepted, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Therefore, according to article 154 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the draft Law on Ukraine’s State Budget for 2024 is considered the Supreme Council for further work. So thank you. Let's move on to the next question, dear colleagues. From the procedure? Mentality is procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u94	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. There was 10038, 10037 on the committee yesterday. In parallel, alternative laws were introduced by me and our "Smart Politics" team under the current Rules. They were not considered on the committee. The committee's decision is worthless at all, because no alternative decision has been made. Open up, please, and see the committee's decision. Under the Law on the Rules of Procedure, decisions are to be made according to each of the laws. The committee’s decision reads: Law registration number 38 as a basis and as a whole. All of it. And according to the Rules in force it is stated that decisions are to be made on each of the bills, alternative or essential. That is, there is a violation of the Rules. It's a violation of the law. If the decision to refer the matter to the House is to be made, I will have to refer to the law enforcement authorities, since this is contrary to both the Law on Rules and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u95	Thank you. It's anyone's right, dear fellows, to address. The devil, yes, please. Even from the procedure? Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u96	I'm just one clarification that doesn't affect the procedure very much, but. It was said that no alternative had been decided. Under the alternative law filed by the Voice faction, it was considered and the decision on its non-support was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is 10038, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023 on the financial security and defence sector and the resolution of and alternatives to priority issues. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to this issue. It will now be necessary to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the bill: 10038, 10038-1, 10038-2, 10038-3. Dear colleagues, I propose to include in the agenda of the day bills: 10038, 10038-1, 10038-2, 10038-3. I'll bet you an offer. Please vote, this is an inclusion in the agenda. Dear colleagues, please stop voting. Let's do this. All the alternatives that are, right, I get it right? So the bill, the inclusion in the agenda of the 10038 bill and all the alternatives to it. Please vote. [[12:37:43]] For 290 Decision taken. I propose to define this bill and all alternatives to it as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of the consideration of the issue. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:38:10]] For 270. Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:38:30]] For 255 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's go to the report, two in favor, two in favor, and we vote. I invite you to the report of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Marchenk Sergey Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on a bill to amend the State budget for 2023, designed to channel additional resources to the security and defence sectors and to address the other state's other priority needs. In particular, there is an increase of 328.5 billion dollars in the budget. In particular, for the security and defence sector, 302.6 billion dollars, including the Ministry of Defence 211 billion dollars, the Ministry of Internal Affairs 79.2 billion dollars, Minstrategprom 4.4 billion dollars, the Security Service 4.2 billion dollars, the Ministry of Defence 2.5 billion dollars, the State Department 570 million dollars, the Foreign Intelligence Service 500 million dollars. Other expenditures are about 20 billion dollars, including for internally displaced persons, for the Ministry of Social Policy. A reduction of $11.4 billion in government budget expenditure is proposed, including government debt costs of 10.7 billion. There has been an increase in income by 26 billion dollars, including in the administrative section, in the use of loans, and in other incomes. Government borrowing is projected to increase by 299 billion dollars: externally -- 207 billion dollars, domestically -- 91 billion dollars. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u99	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. I invite you to report to the author of the following bill, Zabal Volodymyr Vladimirovich, a national MP, please. Please, Cabal Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, our faction has submitted an alternative bill 10038-1 to the government regarding budget changes. The key differences between our bill and the government. We added an additional increase of 65 billion dollars to the financing of the Ministry of Defense. So we're proposing to increase the funding of the Ministry of Defense not by 211, as in government, but by 276 billion. Specifically, these 65 billion include: 40 billion for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, military salaries, and 25 billion for the Ministry of Defence's Development, Purchase, Armament Modernization programme. What do we propose to take these funds for? We're proposing to take these costs on the basis of the tax revenue that's going to be overturned. Indeed, the government has 26 billion additional non-tax receipts. But the tax revenues were not changed. And we see that we have a tax on the profits of enterprises, on the excise in some ways, there's a redefinition. We suggest that we put in a budget this readjustment, which is still to be indicated at the end of the year, and that we send more to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The second difference between the government and our bill is that we have ruled out an increase of 63 percent in the financing of the BEB. This paragraph raised some doubts in society, since the program had the highest percentage increase, even more than in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Nazwardia, and the border guards, by up to 63 percent. So we suggest we rule that out, and let the government pass a separate bill. So, colleagues, I urge everyone to support an alternative bill, even those who support the government. All we're proposing is an extra 65 billion dollars on the U.S.S.S.A. based on solid sources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u101	Thank you. The word is given to the national MP Dmitry Alexanderovich, the author of the alternative bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u102	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, I really understand that we need to finance the army, we need to allocate extra money. But I don't understand why in such a beautiful bill about increasing the financing of the security and defence sector, we're starting to talk to you about a baby that still wants to get 315 million dollars, and in the last year, I've returned 33, and 660, if I'm right, I've already spent it. I don't understand why the Cabinet of Ministers has been set up here. I don’t understand why we’re starting to finance the State Service for Special Liaison, which is under Fedorov’s Ministry. They work, let them work, why spend extra money? What happened to them that they needed money? Or they put the budget wrong at the beginning, then let those who painted it come out, and they'll say we don't have those hands, we can't do anything, and now we have to look for extra money. What does our bill, my colleagues in "Smart Politics" say? It increases the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by 11 billion. It increases the funding of GURs by almost two times. This is the structure that shows the efficiency that undermines bridges in Russians, which destroys collaborators, etc. It spends an additional 700 million on SAP and 700 million on NABU. In this room, everyone has said very much that we want to fight corruption, we want to open declarations, we want to show how to compare treason to corruption, so let's do it. And Kabmin, the baby, the MCS, the External Intelligence Service, and the State Department will somehow go around and sit on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u103	The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrni, the authors of the alternative bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u104	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland. What's our alternative bill about? Dear friends, of course, in this bill, we will vote for it in the first reading, there are very important expenses. These are the important expenses that are aimed at financing the wages, the financial security of the people who are actually fighting. And secondly, it's the money that's being spent buying weapons. These two categories of expenditure we support. But there can be no increase in the wages of bureaucrats and officials all over the vertical part of the bill. This bill can't raise wages and any other expenditure for a repressive force structure that works against business today. But at the same time, there is more than just funding available for the repressive system, the police system of the state. There is also an increase in the cost of food for the captives, that is, for the enemies who killed us. But what's not absolutely here is the costs that are absolutely necessary today to increase the cost of treating our wounded. Today, we have the expense of treating civilians to war, which is what the NHRI provides for our wounded. There is no expense here for our military to move on to five times the full - time diet of NHRIs today. And that's a lot of money. And so our alternative bill foresees that 10 percent of all the expenses that have been incurred in this bill to the government are aimed at introducing a coefficient of 3 into the cost of NHRIs for the treatment of our wounded and plus a full fivefold increased diet for our injured, plus rehabilitation. This must be done. And it seems to me that all the expenses that are foreseen here, if 10 percent are spent on the treatment of the wounded, it will be the only right, the moral, and today's most important position for people, the military, our heroes and heroes, who are protecting us today on the front and the wounded, then to get to the hospital and the hospital, do not feel indifferent. Support our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, all the bills are presented, all of which were both basic and alternative. I give the floor to the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Roxolani Andriyevni Podlasi. Roxanne Andriyovn, please. For the co-report, please, Roxlyn Andriyevne.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, good day again. In the Committee on Budget Affairs, there are relatively short operational changes to the State Budget for 2023, No. 10038, and alternative projects to it. Taking into account the need for the immediate allocation of additional resources for security and defence and, in particular, the payment of military money, the Committee on Budget Affairs, at its meeting on September 19th, adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill for registration number 10038 and alternative bills for its day session. Define an urgent bill with registration number 10038 and shorten the introduction of alternative bills before the question begins. As a result of the first reading of these bills, the bill on registration number 10038 should be adopted as a basis and as a law, taking into account the committee's proposals, as set out in the committee's report. A few words about the government bill itself, which we propose to support. The government proposes to increase the public budget by a total of 317 billion dollars. The main sources of coverage are the increase in income by 26 billion dollars and total funding by 291 billion dollars and the corresponding amount of the marginal deficit. From the government's point of view, these figures are realistic before they are implemented and will allow for an increase in security and defence spending of 303 billion dollars, assistance to internally displaced persons of 16.5 billion dollars, a rapid recovery programme of 6 billion dollars, and an expansion of diplomatic presence in 10 countries of Africa and the Arabian Peninsula of 1.2 billion dollars. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u107	Thank you, Roxolano Andriyevno. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to move on to the budget discussion. to discuss this bill amending the State Budget Act, Bill 10038. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two in favor, two in favor. Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask someone who needs to talk not from the rostrum, I think we can go out and do this. Dear colleagues, please sign up. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Mikhailuk Galini Olegovni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u108	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Pasic Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u109	Alexander Pasic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u110	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Over 302 billion for the security and defence sector, that's exactly how much we're spending today for our defenders in this room. The adoption of this bill will allow for increased funding, which is so necessary. First of all, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, the Department of State Security, the Administration of State Affairs, the General Intelligence Directorate, the financial security that this bill offers is essential. The total increase in government budget expenditure is 322 billion dollars. I want to remind you that last year in this room we passed eight bills that changed the state budget for 2022 and increased the costs of security and defence. Since the beginning of the war in a year, they have been increased by 1.6 trillion dollars. At the committee meeting, we almost unanimously supported the bill. Together, we have to support our military forces, which are holding back the enemy, to stop the military aggression of herefiy against Ukraine, the liberation of the occupied territories and our victory. Please support the government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u111	Thank you. Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyrna's character. Do I get it right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, we are discussing an important bill to increase the cost of our very complex budget for 2023. And this is about increasing spending on the Ministry of Defense, but there's one question. Where is the cost of 30 percent of the contracts made by the Ministry of Defence with a subscription from which neither arms nor funds came? Perhaps you should consider how money is spent. And of course it would be the proper function of the controlling parliament, but we lost it ourselves, more faithfully, you lost it, because today, when we discuss the budget, there is not for the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament of the Prime Minister himself, and we see only the minister of finance. 63 percent, think about that figure, it's going to increase the baby's budget. Are they going to fight or are they going to nightmare business again? Next, the budget of the Ministry of Strategic Industry increases by 4.5 billion. Right, we have to think about the production of weapons, but these are supposed to be loans, because loans -- they're controls, they're loans -- they're repayments of funds and loans -- it's an understandable weapon, not another theft. In fact, we can channel funds from a state road fund that has not yet been made to finance our economy. It's very important that there's one figure in this budget, it's a billion 300 million for the Foreign Ministry. That's the number our faction stood for, because they're going to the consulate. Imagine that your decisions have reduced consular services abroad today, which are being overloaded enormously. In fact, we stress that the budget today should go only to security and defence. And we don't see in these changes that you're taking the money out of the teletraphone budget that you're allocating 2 billion dollars into the oligarchy channels. Two billion dollars is 100,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u113	The word is given to the national deputy Chlapuk Maksim Mikolaiovich. He conveys the word to Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, we recently made a humane decision for the first time in our vocation, which everyone voted for without exception of the faction. This is the decision to appoint a defence minister, Rustem Umerov. And one of Mr. Minister's first comments was that the Ministry of Defense lacks 250 billion. It's a very strange story when we clearly know the amount that the Secretary of Defense has made, but we don't give that money away, we allocate less. And it's also strange that the biggest increase of the orderly is many times the Bureau of Economic Security, which, I recall, our committee found ineffective and which we voted in the hall unsatisfying. There is a 248 - percent increase in expenditure in the following year and this is 68. That's why all of us weekends with our colleagues were looking for additional resources for the Ministry of Defense and finding them without increasing the borrowing. 65 billion that we can allocate: 40 on wages, 25 on weapons repairs. This is the sum, once again, which was confirmed by the Ministry of Finance yesterday at the committee meeting. And I think it's criminal enough, it's wrong, it's ineffective and it's just human not because it suits our high hall, to vote for this bill as a whole, knowing that we can find 65 billion, including taking it to the BEB, they still don't work. So our faction will only vote this bill on the basis. And for the second reading, I promise you a very hard discussion at all levels to increase the cost of the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u115	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Burmich Anatoly Petrovich, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine". Please pass the word to Artem.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, supporting the security and defence sector is our absolute priority. We've looked at funding in this direction on a number of occasions. Today, the important question is that security and defence will get more than 300 billion dollars -- that's how we support our defenders. It will also be a clear demonstration of support for the new Defence Ministry, which we expect to take really effective steps. In addition to the security direction, the cost of restoring Ukrainian infrastructure will also be increased by 6 billion dollars. This will involve us in the EU's budget support programmes. The Ukrainian Liberation Group supports this initiative, the proposed security and defence costs of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussions, we're moving on to making our decisions, our honourable colleagues. The committee's proposal was the basis for it as a whole, but as a result of the discussion, I realized that we could only put it on the basis and cut the time limits. If the hall supports it, it will. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023 on the financial security and defence sector and the resolution of priority issues (statutory number 10038). Ready, Your Honor, to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:00:49]] For 302 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the supply deadline and the amendments to prepare for the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:01:12]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you, folks. People's deputies, respectable colleagues. Next bill. By procedure, Dmitri Alexanderovich? Come on, you're out of procedure today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u118	Thank you. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I'm just for the record, for the transcript, as they say, I'd also like to report to you as presiding officer that 10037 on the committee yesterday was considered without all alternatives. And according to article of the Rules, decisions are to be made on all the bills that are being considered, i.e. essentially, on all the alternatives. Since this has not happened, this bill cannot be considered in the hall. It's not a question to the chairman really, it's a question to the head of the committee that said under the transcript that it was okay. Thank you for giving this information to the hall and not just to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. Is it more of a procedure? Irina Volodymyr, please. Irina Volodymyr from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u120	Thank you, Mr. Head. I don't really understand your great joy because I want to say that you're breaking the Rules. We just voted with 302 votes on the first reading of the bill to amend the 23rd year budget. Given the complexity of the Ukrainian budget this year, our faction prepared an alternative bill of 138. And unfortunately, we were unable to take advantage of our constitutional right of legislative initiative because, unfortunately, the committee's head had violated the 14-day rule of law for national MPs to submit alternative bills. And unfortunately, the alternative bills by 138 and 137 were considered on the seventh day, not on the fourteenth day after the submission of the alternatives. In fact, the faction "European Solidarity" has been held by the 138 vote precisely because of the violation of our right to increase defence spending.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to Bill 10037. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's your procedure? Please, Bacon of the Procedure. It's a procedural day. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u122	I'm actually talking to you, Mr. Head, and I want to point out once again that we've come up with an important bill that could cause a huge imbalance in local self-government that could just shut down local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u123	Paul Andryovich, what's your procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u124	And since there are many alternative bills before the bill that the government has tabled for the destruction of local self - government, my proposal is to remove it from the agenda to make a bill that has been drafted on the committee, in order to still find imbalances in it, what defence costs, and which to leave to maintain at least medicine and schools in the village and in the community. So my proposal is to withdraw and make a detailed logical bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u125	Thank you. Paul Andryovich, find a balance, not an imbalance, the imbalance itself will be found. Paul Andryovich, look, this is the same decision of the Conciliation Council, so we're going to look into it. We've already entered it. Dear colleagues, I've announced we're coming in. Dear colleagues, draft Act amending Chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code on State Security Support and Development of the Ukrainian Defence and Industrial Complex (Registration No. 10037). I propose to include this bill in the agenda and all the alternatives to this bill. People's deputies, please vote. Vote, Your Honor. [[13:05:25]] For 246 Decision taken. I propose to define Bill 10037 and alternatives to it as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of the consideration of the issue. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:05:52]] For 239. Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:06:11]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is another offer. First of all, I would like to welcome you, today we have a deputy commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Lieutenant General Mikhailo Vitaliyovich Zabrodski. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I propose an invitation and a presentation today at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Lieutenant-General Mikhail Vitaliyovich Zabrodsky, during the discussion of the draft Act amending Chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code to ensure the protection of the State and the development of the defence and industrial complex of Ukraine. In accordance with part three of article 6, part two of article 34 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to invite Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Lieutenant-General Mikhail Vitaliyyovich Zabrodski, to give him the floor within 2 minutes of the discussion of the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter VI of the Code of Budget for Ukraine on ensuring the protection of the State and the development of the defence and industrial complex of Ukraine, registration number 10037 after the committee's co-report. People's deputies would like to support this proposal. [[13:07:53]] For 306 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, then we go to the report on our drafts. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Marchenk Sergey Mihajlovich. Please, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u126	Honourable Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, the draft bill designed to provide financial resources to support the defence of the state and the development of the defence and industrial complex, provides for changes to the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Budget Code. In particular, it is proposed, temporarily for the period of the state of war, to be included in full in 2024 in the general budget of the state budget, which is the source of the formation of the State Road Fund, from 1 October 2023 to 31 December 2024 in the special fund of the state budget of revenue from the military, police and personnel of the military and primary staff, and to channel the marked revenues in the following directions: 50 per cent by the Administration of the State Department for the Procurement of Technicians and Equipment, 50 per cent by the Ministry for the Development of the Defence and Industrial Complex. Provide, during the period of military status, appropriate local budgets, councils, military administrations of the free balances of the local budgets and the remaining funds of the local general budget for the operations and operations of the territorial defence, mobilization training, support to security and defence forces, design, construction and repair of civilian protection facilities, shelters, dual-purpose facilities and facilities planned to be used to cover the population, construction of fortification facilities, payment of the work of budget staff and other protected expenditures of local budgets. The estimated additional resource is 95 billion at the expense of the road fund, 119.5 billion at the expense of the PPF from the military for the development of OPC. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u127	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. The word is given to the author of an alternative bill, the national deputy of Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich. Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, you know, in four years, what am I not used to in the walls of the Supreme Council? This is up to a certain population when the same politicians who are advocating an increase in salaries to the military are against the increase in taxes from which these salaries are paid. Politicians who advocate an increase in pensions are against all paying the EU's salaries. Politicians who advocate an increase in spending are against us borrowing, because the debt pit is et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So my alternative bill is not about populism. My alternative bill is to really take a portion of the PDF from military salaries and send it back to finance military salaries. How is he different from the government? The government says that let's take these surplus PDFs that have begun to progress after full-scale, and pass them on to Minstratprom 50 percent, and to Sustainable 50 percent, for the good goals that I support. I'm talking about something else. I'm saying, yes, really, we need to do these goals, which are in the Ministry and in the PRSP, but at the expense of other sources. And the military’s VAT, which is paid from their salaries, has to be paid only. So my alternative bill says that all this money should go to the Ministry of Defense program, which pays off the salaries of the military, a hundred percent. This is the only compromise that society and, I'm sure, local self-government will accept, because the government option is unacceptable to many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u129	Please give the floor to the author of the alternative bill to the national deputy of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please be quiet! And if you listen, you will now hear the sounds of the funeral march. These are decentralization funerals, the reform that I and my partners have done since 2014. How humiliating it is to hear now that if they want local self - government, they can help the army, but we will take the money from them. It's cynicism, lies and abuse of the Constitution. This is abuse of volunteers because the resources of volunteers remain smaller, and joint volunteering and brigades allow local self - government entities to address the costs of subsidies and urgently and immediately solve the problems that arise before the brigades. That is what moved me and our team to prepare an alternative bill. In an alternative bill, a hundred percent of the funding that comes from subsidies can be spent solely on defense. There's no position in the mud, no vegetables, nothing like that. These proposals are prepared solely on the basis of the team’s proposals, which have a permanent location. These funds are also used for civil protection, for bomb shelters, for many other things. And I call upon the major MPs, those who work with volunteers, those who have been searching with the brigade flags here, to back this bill, to support my bill, to protect the military and to win, to defeat Putin, not to vote. This is our task. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u131	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bilozur Larissa Mikolayovni, please, the author of the alternate.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! In fact, in times of war today, it is vital to overcome contradictions and compromise and be in dialogue. All branches of authority should be in dialogue and listen, including to people and to local self - government. On the one hand, really, a bunch of scandals with this gossip, the stadiums and the understanding of everything that needs to be channeled all the money towards our victory, and on the other hand, we understand that the Kabin is actually proposing to remove in the middle of the year from October 1st of the PDF, in fact what we can balance the local budgets and have mad cuts. For example, Mikolayeva, with 50 percent of the budget, forms a tax on the income of individuals. At this cost, they provide drinking water, shelters, schools, and gardens. We know today that the education subsidy deficit is about 10 billion dollars. So, of course, this bill is an alternative, it also provides for state defense spending. But as of January 1, 2024, 50 percent of the military PDF will be removed from the Defense Special Fund for our victory. But we also have to avoid a situation where local budgets don't have enough funds to fund critical expenditures, and I really hope they understand that. Because a government bill can balance local budgets, let alone violate the Budget Code. So by this alternative bill, we're expanding the list of expenditures in 2024 that we can buy buses, do shelters, do repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, and I give the floor to the author of the final draft of the alternative national deputy of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, we're talking a lot about nuisance. In fact, it is unfavourable when stadiums are restored within three kilometers of the front line, when the nuisance is translated, when these costs could be channelled to the security sector, the defense. But it's as bad as eggs of 17, just as it is for bomb shelters to buy designers, how to buy pathetic ones, how to pollinate a government budget for which they have to be held accountable sooner or later. To answer hard enough, I hope they make a living. But when we talk about local authority, not only does the local authority translate the numeral, it provides community activities. It ensured the viability of February 24 when the whole of Kabmin was sitting in Western Ukraine. And our alternative bill foresees the following. To secure the 64 percent that are, by local authority, and then to give them the real opportunity to spend these costs, the military's PDF spending on aiding the army. Not like now, they're looking for schemes, how to do it, but within the framework of an active law. This is actually the initiative of our colleague Dmitry Mikishi, who introduced a bill that blocks the Kabmin, based on simple logic, so that the local authorities don't pry, you know. We support the collection of funds from the road and water fund, but we don't put them in the single bed of the budget, but we only send them to the military budget, where they will be spent at the expense of the security and defence sector, first of all the U.S.S.A. and the defence forces that are approaching our victory. And those who want to pollinate the state budget of Ukraine can wait a little longer. Wait for a just verdict.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I would like to invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on the budget of Kubbit Yuri Mihajlovich to the report. Please, Yuri Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national deputies, invited! The budget committee at its meeting on September 19th discussed the government bill 10037 and its alternative bills, which are united in a common goal: to support the security of the state. However, there are some differences between the issue of resource involvement and the direction in which such funds are used. Therefore, in discussing the drafts, it was the most controversial question to include in the special fund of the State Budget taxes on the income of individuals with military personnel and financial capacity to carry out local self-government until the end of this year, directing the funds from the coming of such a tax to local councils' decisions in accordance with defined directions and proportions, the use of State Road Fund funds and the lending of defence and industrial development programmes. At the same time, colleagues, considering that the government position is the most well - founded and reflected in the 2024 State Budget project, are invited by the committee to support the government initiative. Then, according to the committee’s consideration, the decision was taken. To recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of 10037 and alternative bills to include in the agenda of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of the ninth vocation. Draft Law 10037 defines the urgency and shortens the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the question begins. As a result of the first reading of these bills, government bill 10037 was adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law with the necessary technical and legal rights. I'd like your support, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. In accordance with our procedural decision, I invite Deputy Chief Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Lieutenant General Mikhail Vitaliyovich Zabrodski. Please, Mikhailo Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u138	Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs! The war takes three things: money, money, and money. This expression belongs to Sir Winston Churchill. He was born at a time when all progressive mankind opposed a group of tyrants who somehow decided that they had the right to decide who to live and who to die. Like 80 years ago, we've been dealing with an opponent who still accounts for hundreds of winged missiles, assault drones for thousands, and missiles for millions. Some may feel that the war was almost over just because he had returned from a long journey in Europe. That's not true. As before, the world’s arms market remains an arena of rivalry, not to mention that sales always seem more convenient than handing over. And for many countries, our war is also a good chance to make a very good profit. Money is vital to that end. Despite all the difficulties of today, we have to make great efforts and continue to spend material resources to develop our own production, especially with regard to rocket weapons for all classes and remote-controlled shock systems. Only money can be the source of the continuation of this work. Any war, especially the 21st century, is a very costly step. At the same time, war is a test of the state’s ability to focus its resources on critical areas of victory. The simple question is, what are we spending our money on in this war? There's a very simple answer: we're paying not only for today's success in the field of battle, we're paying for the peaceful future of children and grandchildren not only of Ukraine, but of all of Europe, and we're a bigger investment in the next 10, 15 or even 50 years of our country's peaceful existence. Finally.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, let the General finish, please. Let me finish, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u140	After all, how long this period is going to be, it also depends on money. The Armed Forces of Ukraine support Bill 10037. Glory to Ukraine! Praise her to the Armed Forces!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u141	Thank you. Thank you, Mikhailo Vitaliyovich, thank you. Let us once again thank the Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Lieutenant General Mikhail Vitaliyovich Zabrodski. And to all our Armed Forces of Ukraine, and to the forces of defense. [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sit down. Here we are: two in favour, two in opposition, and we vote. Please, I'm asking the factions and groups to sign up. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leon Aleksandrović, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u142	Please pass the word to Maxim Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u143	Maxim Arkadyovich Bujansky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank once again all those who are now protecting our country on the front. [[Applause]] You know, it's very strange, frankly, that we're now considering issues during the war, or providing ammunition to our Armed Forces. It's really weird. And each of you will now choose whether to do anything for our fighters, or turn your back on the U.S.S.A., back to the country. I will remind you that no one has ever killed an enemy before, and no stadium has killed anyone. They kill missiles, they kill drones, they kill missiles. It's a bill for our troops to finally destroy the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. Dear colleagues, I have no doubt that the Petr Alexiyovich faction will support this bill. They always support the funding of the Armed Forces. There is no doubt that they will vote in favour. I don't have any doubt that Julia Volodymyrna's colleagues will vote in favour, otherwise there can't be! There is no doubt about what the groups are voting on, nor can the Platform for Life vote. I'm talking to you, and now our Secretary of Defense in Ramstein is asking for help, asking for arms, our President at the UN General Assembly is asking for support. So let's put it in the hall. Let's vote yes! Let's take it all into account for the second reading. We're giving weapons to the Armed Forces! For the ammunition! We're pushing green, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u145	Thank you, Maxim Arkadyovich. The word is given to Osadchuku Andrija Petrovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u146	Vasilchenko Galini.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u147	I understand he's handing it over to Vasilchenko Galini.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u148	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainians, Honorable Presidium! The issue of military security, the issue of defence and security of the state is clearly the highest priority issue today in Ukraine and all in our country have to work as one to strengthen that security and defence. But this proposal from the government, when they're offering community budgets to take money away and thereby weaken the financial capacity of the communities, we find it unfair. What's more, it's a question of counting where and counting in what way the PDF is, it's actually a very complicated question. And even from our faction, the people's deputies have made several different proposals. In particular, Vladia Tsabal suggests that all military PDFs direct our military salaries to our military personnel. My fellow national deputies and I have offered an option when we also offer all the funds to be used with certainty in defense, but 50 percent of this VATO should be left in the community and limit the non-critical costs. And 50 percent to transfer to the state budget of Ukraine, to the Ministry of Defense, to a special fund to strengthen our defenses. We all have to work to win. Glory to Ukraine! But please support one of the alternative bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u149	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland. Sergei Mikolaiovich Eutuszk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u150	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, Bill 10037 is not a bill to assist the Armed Forces of Ukraine, it is a bill that clearly entraps local self-government. And all the work that's been done in the context of the decentralization reform of the past call, this call, they're completely out of place, because the basic basic tax on the income of the natural person is being eliminated, which was filling local budgets, which allowed repairs if suddenly some accident in the HKG system, quickly, quickly use these funds, keep their cities in normal shape. You're going to say stadiums, dumplings, yes, honorary colleagues, and what prevents us from giving a clear list and banting the clear use of financial resources to build stadiums, gravel, sidewalks or any other incomprehensible expenses? It doesn't stop us from doing anything. At the same time, however, it is clear that 70 percent of military PFCs, all of which are in pursuit, will be sent to the defence sector, will be able to help the authorities of local self-government quickly, the military forces that send these letters, and will do so quickly, as it will be impossible to do so quickly through the state budget. Dear colleagues, will you tell me where to take the money? Crazy amount of corruption: in these days, medical equipment is being purchased at the Shalimov Institute, plus 10 million on the CT, and DDSN LMS Tomographers are already buying -- plus 10 million are stealing on each device. That's where to look for money.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u151	The word is given to the Lunchenko People’s Deputy. I understand he's handing over Paul Andryovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u152	Paul Bakunec, group "Trust", Lvivščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national electorates, those who are actually elected by the people, chosen by the communities, now have a great responsibility to you: you will now decide whether those people who sent you here will be able to teach their children in rural schools, or if those people who sent you here will be able to get at least some medical service at the FAP or in the rural infirmary, or if those people who sent you here will be able to get their meager payment from a doctor or a nurse or a teacher. After all, much of the money that was taxed by the military in local self - government actually covered these basic expenses. You and I understand we need weapons. We agree with you that it is necessary to strike a balance between the fact that it is the military's PPF to count on the purchase of weapons, the production of Ukrainian weapons, but some of it needs to be left for local government authorities to provide at least education and medicine for the families of our military personnel who win for all of us. So I urge you to make a nice joint bill that will have an imbalance and not support this idea, this shameful idea of destroying local self-government. I urge you to vote with a red button for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u153	Please also ask for the words of two factions: It's from "European Solidarity" and "Rebirth Frost." Please, Honcharenko Alexeiyyyovich and then Frost, and then we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u154	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Well, the friends we've been waiting for are now destroying local self-government. Parliament is destroyed, government, I understand, there is no time in the country to destroy local self-government. We're told we need money. Yes, I do. You need money to win. Yes, I do. Finally, stop spending them on drums and shows! Finally, stop spending them on your stupid ideas, building roads! We're told that the bug didn't kill any enemies. Why did three years of money go into the asphalt when we said, do tanks, do neptuns, work for the army and the country? And now you're out of it, you can't get drunk, and you have to take the money into the local budgets. Get everything out of here! Local self-government, decentralization is one of the most successful reforms in Ukraine. Don't destroy anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u155	Please, National Deputy Frost Volodymyr Viktorovich. And then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I don't think we need to listen to these screamers today who say we don't need to help our army. We have to vote in favour of this law. I'm in the east of Ukraine, I'm constantly going to these cities, and I see how the local authorities are spending this money, the money that our military, the military, are constantly asking for help. If mobile phones were to be purchased three times as expensive today, the fields would probably have been paved with asphalt if they could have been repaired. We need to vote in favour of Law 10037 and pass these funds on to the military, and we need to get away from these schemes that are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. We're moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. You had the opportunity to hear all the positions today. Today you have also heard the position of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I very much hope that you will determine your priorities today. And I propose to adopt a draft Law amending chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code to ensure the protection of the State and the development of the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex (registration number 10037). I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:37:21]] For 236 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading just adopted on the basis of Bill 10037. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:37:52]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next one. Let's move on to the next bill. Oh, I'm sorry. A statement came from two factions, from the Voice faction. And the Voice? Who signed it? I have Ustinova and Kostenko here, do I understand? You're one of them. Ah, "To the future." That's good, because it's written. Please, with the replacement for the speech, the word is given to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u158	Dear Ukrainians, here today behind this rostrum of parliament are representatives of the vast majority of the Ukrainian forces. We are united in a common position: not a step back in the matter of disintegration, nor a step back in the matter of cleansing our country from all imperialism. Colonel FSB, whom we know as two or three weeks, has brought to justice our colleague, National Deputy Natalia Pippa, for her pro-Ukrainian position. Absurd. He and all similar Russian agents lose because we're the only ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u159	Language and culture is our genetic code, it's the pride of the nation. They fear her by risking their lives and the best for her. Let us unite around our common Ukrainian values, for the enemy inside and outside separates us. Not a step back on the issue of demolition, because behind the occupation. Take the example of our heroic defenders and be worthy of their heroic actions. Together.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u160	At a time when Ukraine and the Ukrainian people are defending our land from an empire that wants to destroy us, Natalia Pippa set an example for each of us, set an example for millions of Ukrainians to defend their language, their culture from the invasion of the empire. We support Natalia Pippa and encourage everyone to continue what she did. Stop colonizing Ukraine. No, it's an empire. Ukraine will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u161	Ukrainian language is a weapon, primarily a weapon against an enemy. And whoever didn't get it today in this country has to figure out: I have to learn Ukrainian, I have to speak it, and I have to live and breathe it. Hence, all who violate the Ukrainian Language Law will be duly punished by law. And we should not be indifferent to you, for those who know and appreciate the English language are the guarantee of our true victory.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u162	The Ukrainian language is actually the foundation of the Ukrainian people, for which they die on the front today. We have to support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u163	Lviv has always been open to the world, and the Levites are tolerant of all nationalities and religions. But the Levites were intolerant of wickedness, sovereignty, and haughtiness, and the attempt to divide Ukraine into Russian - speaking and Ukrainian - speaking. Ukrainian language is the genocidal of the nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u164	Dude, the rematch won't work! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u165	Unity is power and power is victory! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Ladies and gentlemen, before your consideration, the proposal by the President of Ukraine to amend some of the laws of Ukraine to determine the procedure for the submission of declarations of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government under conditions of martial law. The President's proposals were made to you. At the Conciliation Council, we agreed on the following procedure. A report by the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council, within 5 minutes, answers to questions from the National Deputies, within 3 minutes, reports from the Committee, up to 3 minutes, replies from the committee to questions from the National Deputies, up to 3 minutes, statements from the MPs and groups, two minutes each. That's how we agreed? There are no other proposals, so we follow this procedure agreed upon by the Conciliation Council. People's deputies, please listen. I invite you to take the floor for the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Fedor Volodymyrovich Venislavski. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u167	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, on September 5, 2023, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Act of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the procedure for the submission of declarations of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government under the terms of war (No.3374-IX), which came to the signature of the President of Ukraine on September 12, 2023. According to part two of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine returned this law to the Supreme Council for review by the Supreme Council with proposals for open 24-hour access to the Single State Register of Declarations of Persons authorised to perform functions of the State or local self-government, to be provided by the National Anti-Corruption Agency no later than 60 days from the date of entry into force of the law. Also supported is the position on whether or not it is appropriate to show open access to the state of war declarations of individual categories of the subject matter of the declaration. In particular, of the military personnel of the Ukrainian State Border Service, the State Information and Information Service of Ukraine, the Office of State Security of Ukraine, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, other military formations, and special police. At the same time, it is proposed to open, in general order, declarations of persons serving in the military service, such as: in the positions of directors of the central and local executive authorities and their representatives in other positions, in the apparatus of executive bodies, in the justice system, which are part of the military and medical commissions, in the medical and flight commissions, they serve in the territorial assembly and social support centres, in the preparation, organization, procurement of goods, work and services in the field of public defence procurement, in the drafting of contracts (contracts), in the control of the quality of goods, works and defence services, etc. Commenting on his position, the Head of State notes that the openness of declaration is one of the mechanisms for ensuring public participation and effective control of the activities of officials, subjects of authority, a strong means of preventing the fight against corruption, promoting active public participation in these processes, which in turn is an important tool for building confidence in power, its authority in society, and responding to Ukraine’s international obligations. In particular, as defined by the United Nations Convention against Corruption, ratified by the Ukrainian Law of 18 October 2006 No251-V, the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their member States, on the other hand, ratified by the Ukrainian Law of 16 September 2014 No 1678-VII. With this in mind, I would like to support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and the results of the re-examination of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on the determination of the procedure for the submission of declarations of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government in a state of war, taking into account the new drafting of paragraphs 8 to 13 of section I, paragraph 1, and section II, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Final Position, as set out in the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Thank you, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u168	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for a question to the reporter. Feder Volodymyrovich, a question to you as a reporter. Please sign up. The word is given to National Deputy Mazuras Georgiyyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u169	George Mazurashu, Servant of the People. Well, you know, for openness I can compete with anyone in this room and beyond. But I would like to ask, Fedor Volodymyrovich, whether you personally or perhaps you discussed this with our President Volodymyr Alexanderovich, you think that we made a mistake last year when we decided not to make declarations at all until the end of the state of war and a certain period after, and then the President signed that law the same day that he was signed, and now we don't even consider it enough just to file declarations, we want to open them immediately to almost everyone. Can we admit that we were wrong then?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u170	Thank you for asking. In fact, we should mention the situation in which we voted in favour of closing the declarations. Since the enemy has systematically analyzed, including the declarations of civil servants, national MPs, Supreme Court judges, Constitutional Court judges, and I think I will not reveal, or perhaps reveal, a secret, because I am a representative of the defence committee that the enemy, the enemy's agents, the enemy's diversified intelligence groups had names, sometimes the addresses of high-level employees who were subject to physical destruction. Thus, at the time of our adoption last year, this decision was completely justified. Today, we are with you, more faithfully, the President today is proposing to open declarations that take into account very many security factors, including military personnel, military formations that are vulnerable. With regard to national MPs and other high - ranking workers, this is, to date, taking into account once again the security arrangements is a perfectly sound proposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u171	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u172	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u173	Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u174	Thank you. Mr. Venislavski, as you know, after the adoption of this bill, and "European Solidarity" voted in favour of opening registers of electronic declarations, there will be declarations by members of local authorities, rural councils who do not receive budgetary salaries and so on. Instead, those who actually run the country today do not declare themselves: the President's Office's advisors, the outside government advisors, the Bank's who today give orders to the judges, tell us how to live in Parliament, have replaced the government. "European Solidarity" registered Bill 9050 on the mandatory declaration of out-of-office and state councillors of the President's Office. Thank you, Mrs. Radinius, who was the only one not of European Solidarity who signed and supported this bill. Our public question to you as a representative of the President who saves for the general declaration, for the transparency of the work of power when it is put into the agenda?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u175	Thank you for asking. Our political power also declares openness and readiness to open all declarations, regardless of the position of a high official if his decisions and actions depend on the adoption of decisions. So I think that when the Conciliation Council of Deputies decides that this bill is ready to be considered, it will be introduced, and each faction will be determined by the vote it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u176	Thank you. We've concluded our discussions, dear colleagues. Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. I invite you to take the floor to report to the head of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee, Radin Anastasia Olegovna. Please, Anastasia Olegna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u177	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Upon returning this veto bill and proposals, the President made a statement by the guarantor of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which the people are the source of authority in Ukraine. 183 and a half thousand Ukrainians advocated the opening of official declarations. And I, colleagues, thank the President for the principle of a position to ensure the openness and accountability of the public authorities and to open a register of declarations. Showing wealth, colleagues, is our duty to you. Under these conditions, we were chosen, appointed by officials under these conditions, and we have these conditions to live up to. At the same time, colleagues, the President, has proposed a mechanism to ensure the safety of military personnel, officials in occupied areas, prisoners and other similar categories of persons, namely, the possibility of removing earlier declarations from open access, a colleague. This is a necessary step. So, colleagues, the committee reviewed the President's proposals, supported them, and approved the final text of the relevant paragraphs, which is recommended for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like your support, colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am asking the Ukrainian National Deputies to sign up for a question to a co-conspirator. Please, Anastasia Olegna, you've run away again, questions to you. Please contact the coconspirator. Please, Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u179	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Madam Head of the Committee, I have another question for you. This is me and most of our factions have been declared since the early 2000s. Yes, it was a paper declaration, and then in this room, in the past call, we voted for electronic declarations and we continue to fill them out. There's nothing to hide. Including open declarations, we have nothing to hide. But I do have a question for you. And how do you feel about all of us being declared in Ukraine: public figures, activists, all citizens were making public declarations and showing who, how and what they live for, so that the whole country could see declarations in public access. Perhaps this would be the right step for Ukraine to become an even more democratic state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivan, for asking. I made a personal declaration when I was a member of a public organization, by law adopted in a previous call to the Supreme Council, which also required public activists to submit these declarations. Once again, I was personally one of those who submitted such a declaration, and there is nothing to hide. At the same time, I remind you that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has since declared such an approach unconstitutional. I think that answers your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u181	Please give the word to Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u182	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Please give my word to my colleague Alexander Ustinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u183	Alexander Yuriovn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u184	Dear Anastasia Olegovna, we've all seen a lot of journalistic investigations with scandals about how our prosecutors are going abroad right now, about what properties they're buying. Would you please tell the prosecutors, the coworkers, for example, the Ukrainian Security Service of the K Department, who are doing anti-corruption in the back, and other officials in this format will declare themselves? Will their declarations be opened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u185	Yes, they will declare and their declarations will be made. The closure applies only to those involved in intelligence.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u186	Thank you. Please give the word to Sofia Romanovna Fedini, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u187	Of course, it's funny and sad at the same time that the President's faction votes for closed declarations, and the President demands open declarations. And now the President's faction is going to vote in favour of open declarations. But I have a question for the interview. Just the question is, why are you so aggressive in protecting the President's office's advisors from the declaration? These people influence all processes, their companies and their affiliates get a bunch of government funds on various projects, they have international negotiations, they talk about arms transfers, they decide where they happen in the state and they don't have to declare. Maybe if you think everyone should declare it, as you said before, then you're going to be one of those who's going to be proposing a bill of 10050 on the declaration of advisors to the President's Office, and we're going to see how much money they're living for and what they're doing with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u188	Thank you so much for asking. Mrs. Sofia, I'm the co-author of the bill you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished the discussion, now we're moving on to the performances. Thank you, Anastasia Olegovna, time is up. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speeches by the MPs and groups. We agreed on a two-minute performance, recorded factions and groups who wanted to speak. The word is given to national deputy Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". That's what I understand, Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u190	Please pass the word to the Venislav Fedor, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u191	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, today, we really need to consider and determine with a rather important question raised by the President of Ukraine after we passed the Law on Partial Disclosure of Declarations by persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government. The question is clear enough, and the discussion already taking place in our room with colleagues shows that there is no clear answer to the extent to which declarations are to be made open and transparent to all subjects of the declaration provided for in the current law of Ukraine. But you and I need to understand, and we are well aware that there is a war going on in Ukraine and the enemy is using any resources to identify individuals who might be objects, let's say, terrorist attacks by the Russian Federation. The President of Ukraine, having examined the law that we passed with you in early September, concluded that the declarations of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the declarations of the leaders of the central executive authorities, despite these threats, must be made public, and everyone who wants to have access to them, analysis and so on. So those Presidential proposals that are formulated, which you all have the ability to evaluate and analyse, are sufficiently considered. On the one hand, they provide vulnerable categories of military personnel, intelligence agencies, and the State Border Service. On the other hand, they allow security measures to open declarations for those who can use their services for illicit wealth, in large numbers, to make it impossible for them to have an open system of declarations. Therefore, our political power will certainly be supportive. And I urge everyone to support the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u192	Thank you. Please welcome alien Natalia Igorovna, the "Deliverance of Ukraine" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u193	Please pass the word to Murmitch Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u194	Anatoly Petrovich Burmich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u195	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Of course, the decision that we made about not having to declare during the war was right. Why? Because it's caused by security issues. But we saw those scandals during the war that not only in the Mino Defense but also in others. Who fought, who shed blood, and who filled his pockets. So, of course, our partners, our leaders, have made the only right decision to renew the declaration. Question: Should it be open or partially closed? For the first time, remember, we made decisions and voted that they should be closed to the public, but all law enforcement authorities had full access to them for inspection and so forth. But what we see is that the President turned this thing around and promised this law. Why? But because people asked him, they wrote petitions, and they signed them a lot. The question is why? And because the people, I take it, don't really trust those who declare themselves. He's even into it. It's a security issue, they don't even respond to it, they want to see who has it. We, of course, have nothing to hide from our "Delivery of Ukraine" group, because we were not involved in any schemes or budgets or other thefts during this time. So if the President's initiative to open them up, we support these proposals. That's why the "Delivery of Ukraine" group supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u196	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Bakunc Pavl Andriovich, the "Trust" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u197	I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I think that the resonance and so much attention of society to the Supreme Council during the war were not in these two years, as before the question of publicity and openness of those whom people hired to work. Because it's understandable and logical that these officials, especially the deputies of all the levels that they have asked for in the community, in people to be chosen for work, to represent their interests, should show those people who have chosen them, what they live for and how they live for. It's the right, good European norm, we've supported it in the first reading, we're still supporting it, and today I'm calling on the hall to open declarations, actually, so that society can see how they live and how officials earn different levels in times of war.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u198	Please give the floor to Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u199	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to make it very clear that our faction supports the President's proposals, supports the opening of the declaration, supports the publication of declarations. And we don't see any problems at all. Rather, it is a positive and good decision. Our team has been declared in paper media since the 2000s, and we've always submitted these declarations. Nothing was ever hidden. We voted for the creation of all anti-corruption bodies by our faction. And that's why I want to say once and for all that transparency in the incomes and expenses of officials of all levels, MPs of all levels, is an obligation. And we're going to do it absolutely openly. To our team, the claims were never about our declarations, the content of these declarations, and they will continue to be the same. But at the same time, what I want to point out is that worldwide today, corruption in Ukraine is being talked about at the highest level, corruption in specific ministries. And today, this reduces both the power and the authority and the influence of Ukraine and the support of Ukraine. Therefore, I would like to see a separate issue of the work of the Supreme Council to be determined by the effectiveness of the work of the NAB, the SAP, the Anticorruption Court, and so forth. If all anti-corruption bodies are approved and corruption at the highest level flourishes in billions of euros, this is where we need to deal with it. And for the declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u200	The word is given to the people's deputy, Zabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, the faction of "Golos". Please. Alexander Yuryevna, please, Ustinanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, I remember fighting for the Law on Declarations, that all the wealth that our politicians earn, our officials, should be made public. You know, I remember the fear that was here in the Supreme Council when most of the people who sat here for years, or decades, who didn't want to show off their wealth. And they told us that it would be a violation of the human rights that would follow them, that they would be persecuted. This fear was overwhelming. But when we saw these figures, I understood why this fear was. Because when we see not what property is, but the churches are declared, I'll tell you that there was a shock not only in us, but in all of our international partners. But I want to remind you that people have chosen us, and we have to listen to people, not break away from reality. A petition about opening declarations now, not a year later, and then rescheduling, took more than 80,000 signatures in a day and was closed. This is the largest number of signatures in the history of a petition meeting. Do you know who the author of this petition is? Sasha Jabchanka, who is now at war on the front, is a military medic. He and I were standing on Maidan. As soon as the full-scale invasion began, he went to the front, he was injured twice. And you know what? He was very indignant when they're fighting on the front right now, and we're afraid to show who bought the mers and who bought the movik. By the way, I strongly advise you, if you've been buying "maviks," not just "merci," declare it, too, because it's your expense. So I'm asking you very much that, believe me, all the cards you pulled today are going to be followed by the whole country. So if you think you're going to go get coffee now or someone won't see that you didn't vote personally, it's a huge mistake. Let's not embarrass ourselves and support the veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u202	The word is given to Fedina Sofia Romanovna, the "European Solidarity" faction, and after that, we vote, honourable colleagues. Please, Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u203	Please give my word to my colleague, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u204	Please give it to Sümar.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, you know, in 2016, the Parliament of the time, the convening of that time, actually adopted the Declaration Act and, of course, the whole logic of it was in public. Why make declarations if you make them closed, it's absurd in itself. This hall closed the declarations after what seemed to be February 24. Then there were all sorts of very strange and interesting things. I have a big question, and I'm listening to this fairy tale of wish to declare, and what made it difficult for us to support 171 amendments to Anastasia Radina's, a colleague, this composition of Parliament? What made it even more difficult for us to approve and express our approval. Well, let's face it, I don't think the desire for openness was as serious as it was until the society, sorry, gave this to the Parliament by this petition, and the President vetoed the closed actual declarations. Now the second question that we're constantly raising, and we're going to keep going. If that is the case, let us move forward and finally declare all those people who are involved in the adoption of state decisions, all those outside counsellors who speak on behalf of the State of Ukraine and spoil our relationship with our international partners. Let us be consistent and follow our fine words of openness. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. We move to voting on the proposals proposed by the President of Ukraine, taking into account the decisions of the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy. Two proposals were made by the President. In accordance with the Rules, proposals are put to the vote in the order in which they are presented by the President of Ukraine, or in another designated Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, with your permission, national MPs, vote on proposal number one. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:10:32]] For 341 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Thank you, colleagues. The vote is number two. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:11:01]] For 344 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, so all the proposals of the President of Ukraine have been adopted, we are moving to voting on the law as a whole. As a result of a review of the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the determination of the procedure for the submission of declarations of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government in the context of the state of war (registration number 9534) put to the vote the proposal to support the proposals of the President of Ukraine to this Act, taking into account the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on anti-corruption policy issues. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:11:58]] For 341 Decision taken. In accordance with article 130 of the Rules. Let's see the factions. In accordance with article 130 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask the Main Committee to prepare the text of the adopted law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the results of the vote. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next project is Regulation 10070. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part one of article 83 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, part three of article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the committee may be dismissed at any time by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You will be presented with the draft Decree on Registration Number 10070 on the recall of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, from the post of Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, and the relevant materials are given to you. In accordance with part two of article 83 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the plenary session and today to consider the draft Decree on Registration Number 10070 on the recall of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sufrich Nestor Ivanovich, from the post of Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. Please vote. [[14:13:35]] For 288 Decision taken. On the Conciliation Board of factions and groups, it was decided to consider the issue in a simplified procedure: two in, two in, and two in, against. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[14:14:02]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask the factions and groups to sign up: two for, two for, against, please. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u207	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u208	Sophia Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u209	You know, society, it all looks in this room both funny and sinful. For over a year, the majority have actively defended the right of the FMCT to be in this room. She actively defended the same man, Nestor Schufrich, so that he could be both in charge of the committee and vote. Because we've got a wide, essentially, between the mono-majority and the FMCT. Let's be honest, 13 months ago, there was a draft decree that the former of the OPCW should not be in office or present in this room. But what they said was the majority that we have. Well, I'm sure you have constructive cooperation with the FMCT as opposed to other factions. A few months ago, a draft ruling from the European Solidarity Commission was submitted to get Sufric to be removed from office as head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. But, no, Mr. Ruslan, you said there was absolutely no reason for that. Unfortunately, just like our security services for more than two years, they simply didn't see any reason to get rid of the LLDC, and for a year they didn't even see specific criminal grounds to solve these things. But it's a good thing it's happening now, even though we can see that the OCD is beautiful and still voting for everything that most people say. But we would like to emphasize another. Instead of being put in charge of the committee by the people who offered to sell dogs, the Committee on Freedom of Speech, this committee, which should be represented and led by opposition representatives. And since the only opposition force in this room is "European Solidarity", we demand that this issue be addressed shortly, and that the Committee on Freedom of Speech be headed by the opposition, that is, "European Solidarity". And let's be honest now, we're going to be talking, the FMCT and other illegal parties, as well as their representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u210	Mrs. Sofia, since you've come to me after all, I'm going to allow myself to respond. I just want to. As a head, I can tell at any time. Once again, I just want to remind you that in the previous call, when this committee was headed by members of your faction, it was at that time that this authority was granted permission for three so-called Medvedchukov channels, which, fortunately, was shut down. Thank you. Period. Let's move on. The word is given to Bužan Maxim Arkadyovich, faction of "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, if our work does not interfere with our colleagues in the back, I propose to support the committee's decision and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u212	Thank you. Please, Shevchenko Evgen Volodymyrovich, deputy group "Delivery of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u213	Shewchenko Eugeny, MP's "Resurrection." I don't mind taking Shufric off this job, because we don't have a word of freedom, and the committee doesn't even go to the council, but I'm against having Eugene Bragar out of the power faction. So my proposal at the next meeting to appoint the head of the Committee for Freedom of Speech as the most opposition to power is Geo Lerosa.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u214	Please give the floor to the national deputy Stefanishini Olza Anatoliyevna, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u215	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Jurczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u216	Well, I don't know how long it's been since we've had a monopoly on opposition, but I'd like to point out that the Russian opposition, the pro-Russian opposition, is illegal. A great thank you to the Security Service and all those responsible for Mr. Nestor Shufrech's faction has been removed from the committee's head, for it is a shame to have a person under arrest at the head of the committee. But the problem is that we now have a huge number of representatives of the pro-Russian forces not only in the governing bodies, but also many in most local governments. There's not one bill, especially the government's, to systematically address this issue, it doesn't need to change the Constitution, let's think about it. And the freedom of speech, the Freedom of Speech Committee, we're going to return to its function as an active liaison with journalists to put them on the line of delimitation, so that they can properly explain events, so that we know what is happening and how is happening in the journalistic environment, particularly with regard to journalistic ethics, which, unfortunately, is also under some pressure during the war, so that there is no censorship, let's postpone and manage the committee's work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u217	Are they willing to speak one minute from factions and groups? We can go to the vote, right? Dear colleagues, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, please move on to making your decision. Please, for in these discussions, the past may not be lost in the future. Please be prepared, dear fellows. I'm sorry, the level of comments, I think each of us is going to be given by our fellow citizens. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 83 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Act "On Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" puts to the vote for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals, the draft Decree (Registration No. 10070) on the recall of the Ukrainian National Deputy Sufrich Nestor Ivanovich from the post of Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:21:33]] For 258. Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Next, dear colleagues. Then we agreed on the rest. [[B in m in s a l in]] Out of procedure, please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. What's your procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u219	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, because I now have a proposal from the Presidium, to put it mildly false. There are just no other factions in this room right now, I can't take a break with a replacement for a performance. Therefore, the request for the next ratification with discussion for our faction to have the right to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-20-m0.u220	I've already heard from the procedure. Therefore, the honourable colleagues, the distinguished national deputies, the consideration of matters of order for today has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. Because we've made some decisions on Conciliation, you've changed. So I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We're still working to win. Glory to Ukraine!
