ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the ruling we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I point out that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. Therefore, I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to parliamentary tradition, let us begin the work of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 433rd day of Ukraine's unbreakable opposition to large-scale racist armed aggression. The Russian terrorist state continues to carry out artillery attacks on the peaceful cities of our country, to launch sneak rocket attacks on Ukrainian homes, to kill innocent civilians, including women and children. Indescribable pain over the loss of lives of our fellow countrymen in Uman, Dniper, Nicholas, Pavlovrad, and other cities and villages in Ukraine. We believe that the day will come when evil will inevitably be punished and every racist will be punished justly for his crimes against the Ukrainian people. Ukrainian soldiers in the field of battle courageously reflect enemy attacks, causing significant losses to the special forces of invaders and military equipment. Unfortunately, because of the war, Ukraine loses its best. I ask you to pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of all the fallen in the struggles of an independent and sovereign Ukraine and of all the peaceful citizens who died from the crimes of the Russian aggressor state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Have a seat, please. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, if you please, a few minutes of information on what took place during this period. I would like to brief you on the summary of my work visit to the capital of the Czech Republic of Prague, where the Supreme Council of Ukraine participated for the first time in the annual conference of the heads of parliaments of the member states of the European Union and the candidates. Participation in this conference has been used as much as possible to achieve three strategic objectives: to encourage our friends and partners to continue and increase comprehensive assistance to Ukraine in the face of Russian armed aggression, to support the European parliaments of Ukraine's future membership in the EU and to approve Member States' decision to launch pre-accession negotiations with Ukraine already this year. And the third. Ukraine's invitation to the future NATO Vilnius Summit to join the Alliance with a clear algorithm, particularly the time frame for accession. For two days we had almost 40 bilateral meetings, during which we informed, persuaded, and arranged. In particular, I would like to mark an enormous negotiation with the President of the European Parliament, Robert Metzola, with whom we drew a road map for further cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay particular attention to the activities of our permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which has done a fantastic job during the April session of the Council of Europe. The Parliamentary Assembly adopted an extremely important resolution entitled “Deportation and the violent movement of Ukrainian children and other civilians to the Russian Federation or the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine: creating conditions for their safe return, ending these crimes and punishing the guilty.” This is the great success of our parliamentary diplomacy, which is followed by daily little work. So let us thank our colleagues in charge of Maria Mezentseva for her significant contribution to our victory. [[Applause]] Also, Mr. President, I would like to inform you that from April 27th to April 29th, in Ljubljana, the eighth stage of the meeting was held in the format of the Dialogue of Jean Monnet, a unique platform that contributes to the achievement of the interfractional consensus for the implementation of the institutional reform of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the summary document, the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, representatives of the parliamentary factions and groups stressed that they would continue to work to achieve the victory of Ukraine over the aggressor, to improve the activities of the Ukrainian Parliament towards gaining EU and NATO membership as soon as possible. Let us therefore thank the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyevich Korniyenka, Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oleni Constantine Kondratuk, and representatives of the MP factions and groups for their active action in this important endeavour for the successful implementation of the institutional reform of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes to the daytime affairs of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. So I'm asking the factions and groups to sign up. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Jani Vadimovni Zinkevich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Peter Alexiovich Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u3	Please, Petr Alekseiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! Of course, the country is experiencing the most difficult times: the tragedies in Uman, Pavlovrad, Dniper, Kiev. Today, we are set up to act decisively to support the Ukrainian Armed Forces and to win. The country lives in anticipation of our counterattack, and each of us has to do everything we can to make the actions of the Armed Forces more effective. I want to thank the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the very wise decision that the Supreme Council has granted to preserve the 30,000 military service allowance. Thank you to the representatives of each faction. One more thing is very important. Then came the shock of the Supreme Council from what seems to be a populist step. My friends, I would like to point out that the Supreme Council did not add, and the Supreme Council did not allow the military to take away the money that was imposed by the President's decree of February 24, 2022, which was put into effect by the Government's order of February 28, 2022. And for today, if the country doesn't have the money for it, cut it down and take it all away. How did you do that? How did you do that? I welcome today’s decision when the leadership of the Armed Forces and the force blocs were present in the Supreme Council. We're going to take an active part in helping the task force work out all the military proposals, removing those who didn't deserve that supplement from there, but protecting Ukrainian military personnel. They are now protecting Ukraine, they are protecting Europe, they are protecting the global world, they are our pride. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u5	Heroim Slava! Please, "Platform for Life and Peace," Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, eight months ago a bill of 7087 was sent to the President, which was voted in this Hall by more than 300 national deputies, to distinguish between the functions of State authorities and local self - government authorities on the protection of children’s rights in connection with the creation of the Ukrainian State Service for Children. All comments and proposals by the President of Ukraine have been voted on and taken into account, but to this day the bill has not been signed. In addition to the creation of the central executive body of the State, this law is important in that it provides for a number of promising actions on the part of the State to protect children. First of all, it is the responsibility of every head of the community for each child who has lost parents, to resolve the problems of local authorities' responsibility for identifying and protecting children who have lost parental care, particularly as a result of the war. Over the past eight months, the Ministry of Social Affairs has not only created the appropriate body, but has eliminated the structural units that dealt with children’s issues. The Ministry, contrary to the legislation, has eliminated all authority over children. All of this leads to a deterioration in the protection of children’s rights not only because of a war that actually kills dozens, hundreds of Ukrainian children today, but also because of the incompetence of a particular Ministry of Social Policy. Today, there is no authority in the government system that is responsible for the protection and protection of children’s rights. What happens instead? Instead, we see that the number of orphans, children deprived of parental care, has decreased over the last year. According to our estimates, of the 50 children who are orphaned in the country each day, only 50 percent are accounted for and given adequate legal support and protection. The adoption is cut short, and the identification of children who have become orphaned is reduced. Children are established in a family without adequate financial and other assistance, and the support of the State. The lost database led to a reduction in adoption, a reduction in the number of foster families and family - type children’s homes, and the country’s homelessness is on the rise. Unfortunately, the continued inactivity of the Ministry of Social Policy masks its unwillingness to work. Every day affects the fate of a child. Please consider my appeal to the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u7	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Burmich Anatoly Petrovich, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u8	Please give the floor to the national MP, Ms. Valery Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u9	Valerius Sergiyovich Gnatenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u10	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people! The ongoing struggle of the Ukrainian people with a large - scale offensive is ongoing. In just the last few days, we have survived two massive rocket attacks. Allies and partners have already provided unprecedented assistance to Ukraine in terms of EUR 100 billion pandas. However, we must be aware that this is an economic situation on the planet far from ideal. According to IMF, the world economy is expected to grow by less than 3 percent annually over the next five years, and this is an additional incentive for Ukraine to make a bet on developing its own economy. We successfully completed the heating period. The energy sector of the economy has endured and business activity is growing. But let us be clear that there is no time for joy, and such a previous outcome should motivate us to follow through. Systemic challenges are needed for our export industries — agar and metallurgy. Existing recovery arrangements, both import and food exports, have been hampered by a variety of obstacles. This is about both the work of the "grain corridor" and the restrictions on Ukrainian grain in the European Union. The important issue is the expansion of state programmes to support Ukrainian entrepreneurship. It's worth a full audit of the effectiveness of the programs, a full audit of the work, such as eWork, the relocation program, "Available loans 5-7-9 per cent", and an inhalation of these initiatives of a new life. A key aspect for the development of the economy today is the need to launch insurance mechanisms against the military risks of domestic and foreign entrepreneurs. The Ukraine Recovery Group believes that the complex and qualitative reconstruction of the new state should be based on the restoration of economic potential. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u11	Thank you. Please give the floor to National Deputy Zabal Volodymyr Vladimir Vladimirovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u12	Please give it to Alexander Ustinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u13	Alexander Ustinov. Alexander Yuriovn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I would like to tell you about how the Temporary Special Commission, which I am in charge of, was visited by the United States last week by weapons monitoring in Ukraine. I want to tell you about the report because you need to hear it. And you may be surprised, but our report matches the Pentagon report, which says there are no violations in the use of weapons by Ukraine. In fact, there is now a great deal of trust in us, and we, as a parliament, with our unity, which now exists in the United States Congress, must continue to support it. We had high-level meetings with the Pentagon, with the State Department, with Congress, with the intelligence committee, with the defense committee. And we were assured of Ukraine’s further support by the United States. But first of all, I want to draw the attention of everyone who's involved in parliamentary diplomacy right now to what's now the key and the loudest thing we're talking about in the United States and what I'm asking each of you to do is ask for help with airplanes. We now know that this is the number one question that is being discussed in the world. And believe me, when you're told that this is never going to happen, it's a lie. We've also heard about the "Haymars," that "you don't know how to use them and you'll never learn." We've heard that about tanks, and we've already got leopards, and the Abrams will be here soon. We've heard this about the petriots who are already standing in Ukraine protecting our sky. I'm very much asking every head of a group of cooperatives, everyone who's working with any country right now: we need to create an F-16 coalition for Ukraine. As we made our time a tank coalition, we should now have a coalition on planes. And we're like a commission that's in charge of counting weapons, and I can assure you, the first to advance this idea. In addition, by giving our partners all the information about how the weapons are being billed. And just so you know, Ukraine is the first country to launch NATO logistics and arms systems within months that are not even in all NATO countries. We have a bar code system running when the weapons coming to Ukraine are being scanned, and our partners know where she's going next. This has never been the case in any war. We, for our part, now have to present it to each of our international partners, and ask us to close the sky now. Because it's not possible to do this with PE systems alone. And if we as a parliament now don't push other countries' parliaments to push their governments, unfortunately we won't have a closed sky and our boys will have a very hard time at the front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u15	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy to Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, dear Ukrainian people! Of course, the preservation of Ukraine’s independence and every inch of our land are thanks to God and our most courageous Armed Forces of Ukraine today. Of course, Ukraine’s development in the family of European nations will take place as soon as possible through the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Even today, the blue-yellow, yellow-yellow bow is also thanks to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. From the general to the youngest soldier, from the mechanized brigades, the TRO to the bordermen we've been marking this weekend, all because of them, of course, that we have the opportunity to be in more or less normal security and actually work today. Therefore, their wages should be worthy, especially of those who are at war on the fore. So today, I thank you, the Head of the Supreme Council, for having actually been invited to this important meeting with our legendary defenders, which was attended by the legendary General Zaluzny, who also explained that these people who are now in the trenches need even more reward. And that's understood by everyone. And that's why it's actually right to make this work council, to make a proper balanced wage, this miserable thing that we can give to those who risk the most expensive -- life so that we can have a country with you and have a chance to live at all. So I thank you, I believe that we will come to the right balanced solution, balanced and with our international partners, who are now giving us important help, and this is actually going to be the right step to support those who are working a lot more for us today and risking thousands of times more than each other here in this room. It's very important. And we must be honest about the fact that today our support for the Armed Forces is not just in our country. We thank the volunteers, every taxpayer Ukrainian, and the international community that understands that. And the U.S. Congress understands that, and in the Assembly, actually, the Council of Europe understands that, and the MEPs of the European Parliament, so we thank the whole world, we believe that our defenders will soon win victory and peace for the entire Ukrainian people for all of Europe and the world. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u17	Heroic glory! Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, from this rostrum every session echoes words of gratitude to our heroes who are now fighting on the forerunners who are protecting our country. At the same time, our team has now traveled to the frontal hospitals, which provide assistance to our wounded, to Kramatorsk, Friends, Slavyansk, and so forth. We simply visited many hospitals, hospitals, and hospitals to treat our wounded. What do I want to tell you? Why the good words spoken from this rostrum in support of our warlords have absolutely no bearing on the decisions needed to support our heroes, including the wounded. What did we see in the hospitals? The NHRIs that finance the treatment of our military lack sufficient food to pay for the medication needed to provide medical care to our wounded. Why are there the lowest-quality prosthetics that have practically collapsed over three or four months of their use, or so low-quality that the world has long since gone forward by the quality of the prosthetics? Please tell me why these hospitals don't have all the necessary waste materials, no MRIs, no angiographers, no CCDs, nothing? Why is that? I realize that this hall is hardly of interest, it is interested in scraping up the land, scraping up property, destroying businesses, and feeding on the country’s misery. This is interesting in this room, and helping our wounded is not. And what did our team do? We had a big auction Saturday with charity funds and raised 7 million dollars to buy equipment in these hospitals. What, the budget's not good? We brought together creative people, entrepreneurs who helped today. What, the state can't pay attention to that? I now call on the deputies to adopt a special law for the special financing of treatment and rehabilitation of our wounded, to adopt special expenses that provide 300 percent for the treatment of the injured. Get the hospital in order. The worst quality in hospitals at all is hospitals. Why? And so I would like us to be in this commonwealth, with this bill we'll go to every faction and we'll gather unity in that parliament to support the treatment of our wounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u19	Please, Fedienka, I understand he's passing the word to Arahamaia, right? Arahami David Georgiyovich, "Serial of the People" faction. Please have three minutes of your time, David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, we had a meeting this morning with all the representatives of the force. We have a letter signed by all of our military, those who now govern the army. They all agree that the system that worked before the adoption of this bill is imperfect. There's a question of experts, there's questions about students, there are questions about people who are out of state getting hurt and not getting hurt. In fact, they get 650 dollars a month. There are also technical issues, such as right - hand cars that are not in the state, and military forces are forced to keep them at their own expense. A lot of questions, so-called, we called this "military package." A task force is being set up by the Head of the Supreme Council today. And we want to make a decision with the numbers with Minfin for 7 to 10 days and then go back with this "military package" to the session room and vote. So I ask everyone now to refrain from populist action and work together with all the factions, then to sign this bill with the heads of all factions and groups and then to move on the one front, as we have always done during and since the beginning of the war, to demonstrate unity in Parliament and together to help our military to work out the decisions that they share, and which protect the interests of all the people who are now at war on the front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u21	Thank you, David Georgiyovich. The word is given to Taras Ivanovich Batenka. Ladies and gentlemen, after this, we are moving on to the agenda. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u22	I agree with our colleagues who say that, in parallel with the so-called tank coalition, we have to be born, very soon to be born, and to form a coalition at the end of Ukraine's F-16, because we have to protect our sky as much as possible, and to prepare for counterattack, and to protect our population. Because rocket shells, unfortunately, are ongoing. And the latest rocket attacks that have taken place in Ukraine say that war has taken its toll and that the aggressor is not going to stop at any civilian objects in Ukraine. In fact, for us Ukrainians, the entire Russian nation is an accomplice to or a participant in this crime, which Putin’s army has been carrying out for the second year in Ukraine, as in a full - scale war. To remain silent is also to be an accomplice to a crime like genocide. Unfortunately, some in the world and in Europe want us to look for opportunities to negotiate so that we can look for a dialogue with Russian civil society. I have a question about where is Russian civil society when it was born or when it died? Russia has neither been able nor able to be in its present borders a country with civil society. And Kara-Murza or Kasparov and Neuzorov are the same in prisons or immigration, and no more. Therefore, belief in another Russia, civilized for us, is an empty faith while Russia remains an empire until Russia is punished for its crimes. And we hope that the same understanding of Russia as the empire and its intentions will remain for the civilized world. That's why the International Tribunal. We're talking about this in various symposia and towns, and we talked about this in Washington as part of the work of our temporary special committee, and we talked about this at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Terrorists have to be punished, so Russia's existing political regime is a racism equal to Nazism, and we will make the right decision today. Thirty thousand bracelets that we're talking about so actively. We support the idea set out in the letter by the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, General Zaleń, concerning fair compensation. General Plenipotentiary reasoned this at a meeting of the heads of the factions of the MP groups today. That is why we must not shake the state and preserve the state and achieve maximum justice in this matter. A working group that's supposed to do a "military package" that takes into account all the needs given the expansion of the new brigades and so on. And first of all, we need to find the funds, the extra funds for those who are in the trenches, who are fighting in the sweat and blood for our independence, for our freedom. And that'll be fair. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u23	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, we've finished our performances. I see, I'll give you my word. Now we're just going to vote to see how many people are in the room. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable members of the People’s Republic of Ukraine are invited to make a signal vote prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. Let me remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and hold these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. Signal vote. Please vote. [[12:36:00]] For 230 9 against, 3 against, hold on. Everything as usual. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand that Alexi Hotcharenko wants to take the floor. Please, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u24	Alexei Hotcharenko. Dear friends, I address all of you. Today, many times you have said, "The hero of glory!".. So I'm asking you not just to say it, but to do it. So I demand that we put to the vote the question that we today consider the disgraceful Order 8312-P, which blocks the return of payments to our military personnel, to all of our heroes that we talk about every day, every second of the rostrum. But let's not talk, let's do it. Right now we're putting this decision to the vote. We're breaking this disgraceful decision. We're clearing the way for the law to be signed by the speaker and the president. This is what hundreds of thousands of people expect of us. This is exactly the main issue of today. Anyone who votes will find out.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u25	Thank you, Alexeiovich. Dear colleagues, just one more time. This morning we had a meeting between the leadership of the Supreme Council, the leadership of factions and groups, along with all the military superiors of the state. In order for us to make a decision, I'll just read this letter if you'll excuse me. We agreed to meet factions and groups. "To the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, a copy of the Green Vladimir Alexandrovich, Prime Minister of Ukraine Schmidt Denis Anatoliyovich. Honourable Ruslane Alexiyovich, on April 10, 2023, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted Bill No. 8312 of 27.12.2022 on amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the legal regulation of matters related to the implementation of the legal regime of martial law. The bill was introduced with a parliamentary proposal for payment of 30,000 dollars to military personnel, members of the military and the head office, the civil protection service, and the police, irrespective of their reliance on such persons or areas of service. In our common view, the proposed proposal cannot be accepted in the proposed edition, resulting from such a proposal. The proposal does not solve the mentioned series of problems related to the monetary reward of military personnel, whose solutions are urgent, particularly with regard to the remuneration of those appointed for term service, senior military training courses at the Ministry of Defence and other military departments. The text of the standard does not take into account the characteristics of the service in a given region and the complexity of the tasks assigned to the military. They are convinced that the approach to payment should be more differentiated and developed in conjunction with military personnel and command. Even more important is that a fair pay system exists not only on paper but also on related expenses, since the disappointment of military officials by a random act of populism can have negative, fatal consequences for the country. In view of the above, please consider the possibility of creating a working group from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine for the rapid development of changes to existing legislation that would address the issues identified. The bill is due to be submitted to the Supreme Council Hall by the end of May. To date, please do not consider in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Decree No.8312-P of 11.04. 2023. With respect, Minister of Defence of Ukraine Reznikov Aleksij Juriovich, Minister of Interior Klimenko Igor Volodymyrovic, Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Zalej Valerij Fedorovich, Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Shaptal Sergey Aleksandrovich, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine Daineko Sergey Vasilovich, Commander of the National Guard Lebedy Yuri Anatoliyovich, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine Maluk Vasil Vasilovich." Today I'm informing you that we're here, that this group will be created in the next few days, and it will take care of it. But I have to make the proposal that Alexy Alexiyovich asked. The point of the proposal, I say again, is to put this blocking Order No.8312-P into the agenda and consider it at today's session. Do you understand the positions, yes, position one and position two? We have to vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:56]] For-99 The decision is not taken. Thank you. By factions, please show me. Let's move on, dear fellows. Let's move on to the agenda. Thank you. Our next question is question 9259. This is a draft law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the state of war in Ukraine. We agreed to vote on this issue without discussion. I therefore immediately propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the period of military status in Ukraine (registration No. 6259). People's deputies, please vote. 9259, that's what I said, 9259. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:42:00]] For 324 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill, we also agreed without discussion, 9260 is a draft law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the general mobilization period. I therefore propose to adopt, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the continuation of the period of general mobilization (Registration No. 9260). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:42:47]] For 333 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Next bill, 9244. This is a draft of the Order on the implementation by the heads of military administrations of the localities in Berdjansk, Vasilivski, Melitopolski and Pologovsk areas of the Zaporozhyk area of authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:43:30.]] For 324 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:43:52]] For 269 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we not discuss this? No, with the discussion, fine. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u26	Please give Bobrovsky a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u27	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, you know, we are actually at each session discussing the issue of military administrations and the exercise of their powers in certain locations. But we all have one strategic question: What about Mariupul? Why is there no military administration in Mariupola? But we all understand what they're doing today in Berdjansk, Vasilovsk, Melitopolski, Pologovsk district of Zaporozhye, but everyone is silent about a city that has become a tragedy worldwide, and no one understands how, apart from the city council, there are a few people left who are probably exercising their powers and are scattered somewhere in Ukraine or in the world, but where there is no military administration and where there are a lot of questions. Actually, this is my question, in particular, and to the speaker: is this a question raised at the RNB, and is this the question raised by the President? I will be grateful for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u29	Please, Stepa Sergey Sergiyyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Vitalia Bezgin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u31	Please, Vitaly Bezgin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u32	Good afternoon, colleagues! I think there's no doubt that we need to support an appropriate Order to empower military administrations in the Zaporozhye area. But I'd like to weigh another decision that's just as close to these, because it's about this area that's actually in a difficult situation. This is Presidential Decree 9118, which applies to the Zaporez District Council and, in fact, the Zaporezian District Military Administration for the transfer of appropriate powers. Let's face it, that tool that verifies a similar decision in Parliament, it's right and justifies itself. At the same time, however, in Zaporozhye district, active fighting activities, a vast amount of territory under temporary occupation, and the district council of Zaporozhye district openly does not exercise its authority and openly violates the regular Law on Local Self - Rule in part of the regularity of its meeting. Moreover, 40 percent of this council's membership is currently a member of the banned parties, which must also be a criterion to support the presidential initiative 9118. Well, as a last resort, colleagues. Why, in addition to this decision, you will see Mr. Eugene Balitsky, who is now leading the occupation administration and working with the Russian occupationists, at the next session of the act that I have already mentioned, what is still worth going on? So please support this proposal by the President. And at the next session of Parliament, consider the proposal to give authority to Zaporezki District Military Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u33	Please, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u34	Please give Alexia a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u35	Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u36	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. An important decision must certainly be maintained. And unfortunately, we have to make these decisions because part of our nation's territory is still occupied, much of it, 20 percent of the territory. Every name, every village is a pain for every Ukrainian. But how are we going to return all of this? This is the main question for us today. We make technical decisions like what to do in this situation, but victory in the hands of some people -- those who fight for our state from morning to night; those who are in the trenches; those who are in the blood belt protect our state in the mud. And I'm absolutely shocked by the results of the vote that just took place: 99 votes in favour. You all voted only literally three weeks ago for the Return of Payments Act to our military: 277 votes in favour. What happened? Where did 178 votes go? What happened in these three weeks? Is the President's office so scary? Are you so afraid to make a decision to really support our military, not in words, in action? Let's go back. They say we need a working group. Please, let's go before we fail this infamous decision today. It's a disgrace to this decision that's blocked the payout! Then it would be time for the speaker to sign until the president signs. Any working group could be assembled, anything decided, if you want. And if not, the abuse of our heroes continues -- those who have to liberate our land and win. It's a real shame! And every name will be known, and you have not just made a mistake but a crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u37	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please, "Platform for Life and Peace."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u38	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, the honourable chairman. Relevant powers are clearly provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of War. And I am absolutely convinced that such bills have, such draft regulations should be discussed quickly, and it would be desirable to make a decision without discussion at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion, we're moving on to making a decision. Please take your seats. I propose the adoption, as a whole, of the necessary technical and legal amendments, of a draft Decision on the implementation by the Chiefs of Military Administrations of the locations in Berdjansk, Vasilivsk, Melitopolski and Polosovsk Region of the Zaporez region of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (registration number of Bill 9244). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:51:29]] For 329 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next bill, 9206. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act on the implementation of European legislation into national legislation by implementing specific provisions of the EU acquis in the field of audiovisual advertising (the European Convention on Transborder Television, the European Parliament Directives and the Council 2010/13/EU on audiovisual media services since 10 March 2010 with amendments to Directive (EU) 2018/1808 of 14 November 2018) and to certain other laws. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:52:29]] For 318 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:52:51]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we made a deal with each other. Please, Mikita Ruslanović to present the bill, and then we go: two in, two in, against. You're both from the committee and from the authors, so four minutes, please, Mikiti Ruslanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u40	Thank you. Honorary Presidium, honourable colleagues, this law will close our obligations under paragraph 6 of the opening of negotiations on Ukraine’s membership in the European Union. We've adopted, we've done a great deal, the Media Act, it's a much smaller amount of work, but this law is the final implementation of the Ukrainian legislation of the relevant Audiovisual Services Directive of the European Union. I will briefly stop at the main novels of this bill. First, the terminology of advertising with European legislation is fully harmonized, the concept of user content is introduced -- it's the content that users themselves create in social networks and so on, and the advertising that will be there can be posted. It's the first time we've introduced the term and the regulation of the performance product, and we've had it in the Syrian zone before, and there's no complete terminology. The criteria under which advertising is considered to be self-regulation and co-regulation in the field of advertising are being narrowed down, the requirements for the payment obligation in Ukraine for the distribution of advertisements in Ukraine are being laid down, and this is primarily the case with the codes governing the content of advertising directed at children, so that there is nothing, say, unnecessary or harmful to children, that there is an increase in the ban on advertising claims and images that are discriminatory, which fuel hatred. According to European quotas, quotas for television, radio, and television advertising are being transferred. It doesn't change in principle, it's just a little bit different from the time intervals. So it's forbidden to process personal data of children that can be used for commercial purposes. An important novelty is the introduction of advertising regulation on public access platforms. We have now, you know, online cinemas, other platforms of shared access, there's a lot of anarchy, you can advertise anything. We put it in that dot. We're carrying all the standards that apply to the ban on tobacco, tobacco, so all the connections and so on, and the devices in this law, means that all the standards that we've adopted with you in the 19th year. So this is not about weakening any restrictions that protect Ukrainian citizens from harmful things. The concept of social advertising is clarified. In particular, weapons are allowed, we are now prohibited from displaying weapons in advertising, such as the U.S.S.A., the National Guard and other defense forces. This is wild, of course, during a full - scale invasion. We are taking a major step in the fight against piracy. So we're going to fight those who post commercials on pirate sites. So in general, colleagues, this law, so there are certain things that need to be processed for the second reading, we're going to do that. They are important, but not the kind that we can't deal with in two weeks that we're going to have before the second reading. Thank you very much. Please support this important Euro-Integration Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u41	Thank you, Mikita Ruslanovich. So I understand that we're not proposing a shorter term. Thank you. Please, Your Honor, I ask you to sign up: two in favour, two in opposition to this bill and we will vote. Please. Please, Eugenia Mikhailna Kravczuk, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, today we're looking at a bill with a very long title, so we're going to call it 9206. It is very important for the full implementation of the sixth item of the seven necessary to start negotiations on the accession to the European Union. It refers to changes in advertising legislation. This is not only a modernization of national legislation but also an implementation of the relevant Audiovisual Media Directive. We are synchronizing both technologically and fundamentally with European legislation through clear criteria for the identification of advertising. In addition, we need to have self-regulation and co-regulation institutions in the field of advertising, as is the case in the European Union. Our licensing and permitting algorithms are supposed to match the practice of the EU, and our bill fully decides that. We also propose to improve the regulation of social advertising. We introduce the concept of "useful content" and advertising in it for the first time, and we regulate advertising for the first time on platforms of shared access, in messaging, in boots, in virtual and complementary reality, and so on. Media subjects are also prohibited from processing children’s personal data for commercial purposes. It's very important. And I would like to thank my colleagues at the National Health Committee for supporting this bill. There we completely eliminate technical disagreements, and any changes to the legislation on the ban on tobacco advertising that we adopted in 2019 will enter into force as voted by the Supreme Council. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u43	Please, Arjev Vladimir Igorovic, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u44	Please pass the word to the Prince's Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u45	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is obviously a positive project in general, so "European solidarity" will support it in the first reading. But I will stop on some issues that need to be settled before the second reading. First, the bill, of course, defines social advertising, but it doesn't provide the following answers: can you, for example, consider the social roles of the Ukrainian Security Service or the videos that call for support to the army, or the role of volunteers and the cost of military humanitarian goals that place all our media. The law does not introduce them into the concept of social advertising. This means that even from a tax point of view, they all have to be paid at market price. Obviously, this is unfair, and we will correct it for the second reading. Next. We're creating new regulators in accordance with the new Media Act. And it turns out by this law that regulators, that is, business people, for example, IT, will regulate the content of advertising in transport. And this has to be written in such a way that they create their own regulator and they're doing it in a purely profile way. There are quite a lot of questions about terminology. Our respectable speaker has done a lot of copyrighting and we have the term "sign for goods and services" in this law, and he's been replaced by "trade mark" for several years now, instead of using old terms. Obviously, there is a better way to define the distribution of the sponsoring of the forbidden news and the sponsoring of programs on current events, because the current law is the same thing. The law in article 20 prohibits advertising, by the way, and here I argue with the honourable committee head, a colleague, he forbids advertising weapons. And I think that at least at the time of the military state of the special period established by the Defence Act, we need to take that off. The same applies to the use of the State Herb, the flag, and the anthem. In all other ways, it's a positive law, we support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, MP's "Platform for Life and Peace". Dear colleagues, and after that, we are voting on a very important bill. Please, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, I support everyone that this bill is extremely important, and it has taken a long time on the profile committee. We support this bill. Convinced that all inaccuracies, some discussion issues, can be settled before the second reading. So I urge my colleagues to vote and support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. We're moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, as a basis for the elaboration of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Law on Advertising on the implementation of European legislation in Ukraine's national legislation by implementing certain provisions of the EU acquis in the field of audiovisual advertising (European Convention on Transboundary Television, Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2010/13/EU on audiovisual media services from 10 March 2010 with amendments made by Directive (EU) 2018/1808 of 14 November 2018) and certain other laws (register number of this draft Law 9206). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:03:58]] For the 320. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill 92. Let's see the factions. That's how we vote for European laws. Thank you all for your unity. 9240, this is a draft law amending some of the legislation on the location of the National Military Memorial Cemetery in Kiev. I'll make an offer to include it. That's 9240. I would like to propose to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:47]] For 322 Decision taken. I propose to define this bill as a matter of urgency, shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of the consideration of the matter and consider it at this meeting. It's about Bill 9240. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:05:18]] For 316 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:05:39]] For 272 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we will take it as a basis and in general, but with discussion, so please sign up: two in favour, two in opposition to the discussion. Please give the floor to the national MP Purtov's Annaliyevna, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u50	Honorary colleagues, almost daily by the President of Ukraine, are taking orders to honor the State's awards and the high rank of the Hero of Ukraine, the military, the defenders and the protectors, who, in their personal courage and heroism, by remaining loyal to the military oath, have perished as a result of a confrontation with the enemy. The memory of the heroic characters must be duly honored. The question of a decent burial place and the veneration of the fallen soldiers today stands very acutely in society and, in particular, among the families of the fallen soldiers. In May 2022, the Supreme Council of Ukraine launched and passed the Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the National Military Memorial Cemetery" and on a legislative level the consolidated concept of the National Military Memorial Cemetery and its legal status. A plan for the creation of a military cemetery was developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, together with the Ministry of Veterans Affairs of Ukraine, taking into account the suggestions made by interested parties, and its location on the Brovarski Avenue in the Dniprovsk district of Kiev. Nine years of war, many dead. Unfortunately, our protectors and protectors are now being killed. Ukraine should honor the memory of the fallen soldiers with a proper ceremony, as is the case in other parts of the world. The implementation of this project will have a positive impact on the interests of Ukraine’s defenders and defenders, the families of defenders who have died in the struggle for independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine today, and will contribute to the consolidation and development of the Ukrainian nation, its historical consciousness. For the time being, it is vital that we give practical opportunity to bury the fallen. It's our common story and our common pain. Please support this bill as a whole. This will be the least real gratitude instead of a thousand words.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u51	Thank you, Anna Anatolyevna. The word is given to the national deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u52	My fellow Members, I think we are now discussing a bill that needs attention and respect, because it is worthy of respect for the memory of the fallen heroes, and unfortunately, thousands of Ukrainian soldiers, men and women, that is our responsibility. I want to thank Kyivrady, our team there, who have already made the right decision. And it is evident that today the Supreme Council is to create a National Memorial of Memory. It's the right place. The Beakownian tombs, the Bikovnian Memorial, where the remains of the encavedist regime Stalin, who today is a complete follower of Putin, likewise rested today. In fact, it is very important that our team, in its own time, has created an alley of memory in every cemetery in our country, unfortunately. But today it's about the number of heroes that this memorial has to be created. But friends, honoring the memory of heroes is not only their worthy burial and the possibility of burying heroes on this memorial, it is also a reward. We want to honor the moment of silence, including the fallen deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is former "liberator" Mr. Marchenko and our colleague Oleg Barna, who died on Donetsk a few weeks ago. And it is very important that they be rewarded with State awards, just like Jura Karakai, just like all the members of all the teams that fought under the same flag, "For Ukraine!".. We call on the President of Ukraine to celebrate the national awards of all the soldiers and all the officers on the shield, as heroes, who died in this war, regardless of the team they belonged to, and, of course, the former deputies of Barna and Marchenko should be on this list. The Eternal Memory of Heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u53	The word is given to Pavlovka National Deputy Yuri Alexiyovich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I join every word of the previous speakers in this rostrum. Once again, I want to honor the memory of every Ukrainian hero who laid down his life, put his health in place, protecting the sovereignty and independence of our nation. I am convinced that the Supreme Council will unanimously support this initiative, the creation of a national cemetery, a national memorial. And it is important that we remember that it is not limited to just one memorial, so that we today, in every decision we make, remember a soldier who is on the front line now, so that we can remember each one who is injured and undergoing a very difficult treatment now, going from one doctor to another, or the doctors are fighting for his life, so that we can remember those who are protecting us today, ensuring a victory in the back. This is respect, and they have supported their families, and this is our duty to honor every Ukrainian hero who, in his life, protects the country today. It is vital that each cemetery has a proper view of the soldier’s grave in every corner of the country. Regrettably, we see and know cases where graves are destroyed, washed away, and the city’s authorities await the heat of the weather and do not do so quickly and quickly. That's why we're voting for this decision, and I'm sure Parliament has yet to ensure that every funeral of the military is monitored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the location of the National Military Memorial Cemetery in Kiev (register No. 9240). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:48]] For 308. Decision taken. Show the factions, please. I propose to adopt in general, taking into account the proposals of the committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the location of the National Military Memorial Cemetery in Kiev (registration No. 9240). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:14:30.]] For 322 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Dear friends, next Bill 8095. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the quality of higher education. It's a second reading. A statement came to me from the national deputy Kirilenka, who asked for five minutes to speak instead of all his amendments, and after that we are voting on the law as a whole. Five minutes, please, Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u56	Thank you, Mr. Head. I want to say first of all, thank you very much to our and my colleagues on the committee for their tireless work to improve the educational process, especially in this difficult for all of education, and not just for all of education, wartime. And the testimony of this tireless work is that in this room, an absolute majority of the votes are voted on by all the bills that our committee is introducing. Unfortunately, in this case, we cannot support this bill, this legislative initiative, because unfortunately, in our quest to improve quality control of higher education, we have crossed the threshold of permitted: we have violated four articles of the Constitution. And that's clearly indicated by the scientific and expert administration, and by the Chief Legal Authority. Let me remind you that this law proposes to clarify the procedures for the formation of the National Agency for the quality of higher education, to establish its structure, to define the procedure for the accreditation of higher education institutions and their follow-up monitoring. Where is the violation of the Constitution? In violation of the requirements of article 19 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, it is proposed to regulate the authorization of public authorities and local authorities at the legal level or to grant discretionary powers in general. It's a bad practice, my friends, you can't let that happen because it's a precedent. The bill contains rules that violate the principle of legal certainty (article 8 of the Constitution), which will not promote their explicit application. And it's also a path to abuse in places, and you can't let that happen either. Article 95 of the Constitution is being applied because the sources of funding for the activities of the National Agency are the costs received as fees for services of accreditation as determined by the National Agency. Guys, this is a very serious violation, because budget legislation is heavily regulated, and you don't have to go in there, because it might end badly and even criminally. There is an exception to the general rule in relation to a certain category of persons who have the same rights and obligations, which is in direct contravention of article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine. So both the educational environment, and we're on the faction in our expert evaluation, we're proposing the following. The state should not extend the functions and powers of the liberal bureaucrats of higher education institutions, because we are applying for autonomy of higher education institutions, which is one of the main requirements of the European Union. We should not increase the costs of higher education institutions for the accreditation of educational programs and allow such services to be paid at the expense of the general budget fund for the training of science and science professionals. Simply put, rather than channeling funds for the training of professionals and staff, the bill proposes to pay for certificates of accreditation — not exactly a commilfo. Next, we do not want to, and the State should not give undue public status to the leaders and employees of such institutions. I think we'd be able to further improve this necessary law, but unfortunately, for the faction of the Fatherland Party, the violation of the Constitution is taboo. You know, we're on every bill where there's a violation of the Constitution and where there's a requirement of scientific expertise and of the General Legal Office to rework, we agree with that position. We're the highest legislative body, we can't do that. Thank you. Unfortunately, we cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on quality assurance of higher education (registration No. 8095). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:20:18]] For 277 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Next Bill 6203. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving State oversight (control) in the field of technological and fire safety. This is also a second reading. This is also a second reading. I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on environmental policy and the use of Mandzia Sergio Volodymyrovich. Tell me, please, we said there'd be a single amendment to the EC and there'd be a few amendments to the Homeland. Do I get it right? Please, let's start with the "ES" and the "Paternity" if you please come. Who, Arthur, will you be? What's the amendment, what's the number? One minute just to come out, huh? Please, Friz Irina, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u58	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we actually have a situation where the first reading came up with a bill that contained corruption risks, which was the result of a professional anti-corruption committee, where we stressed the need to remove the discretionary powers of the DSS, which were laid down in the text of the bill. Now, we have a situation where I have to thank the profile committee for having taken account of the fact that we've been prepared by the faction of the authorship of Rostislav Pavlenko and Arthur Gerasimov, who takes away this discretion from the authority of the DSNS, and I call on colleagues to demonstrate constructiveness and unity, because when we hear each other, we will adopt bills that will be far from declarations, but will really update the system and make life easier for citizens and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Please, we agreed then instead of the amendments, Michael Mikhailovich – two minutes and we are voting, dear colleagues. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u60	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in fact the committee for second reading has somewhat improved this bill, but there are still very risky things left. This, for example, is the fact that the State Service will have the right to come to an enterprise, an institution, and to conduct an inspection without a supervisor and an authorized person. Imagine what it would be like to test it and what its objectivity is. It's a corrupt risk. Next. After the shortcomings identified by either the commission or the authorized representative of the State Service from emergency situations have been corrected, another such commission, a review, is needed to restore the business, attention, after the shortcomings have been corrected. That is to say, it is unacceptable for the same violation of the ministry to come twice. And there are a few other important points that, unfortunately, have not been removed by processing the second reading, and our revisions have not been taken into account. An additional test is also established by a court’s decision. That is, in addition to the circumstances provided for in the legislation, another rule is introduced: pre-planned review of the court's decision. This is contrary to existing legislation and, unfortunately, has not been able to improve this standard until the second reading. Because of this faction, Fatherland cannot vote on this bill. But I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the public service workers, all the rescue workers for the work they are doing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u61	Thank you, Michael Mikhailovich. We join you in your greetings and greetings to the employees of this service. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. We move on to making decisions about him. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving State oversight (control) in the field of technological and fire safety (registration number 6203). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:25:32]] For 275 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a whole. Thank you, colleagues. Next bill, 8149. This is a draft Law on the Merger of Agricultural Products (Registration No. 8149). I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:26:05]] For 245 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, two in favor, two in favor, and we vote against it. Please two in, two in, two in. Please give the floor to National Deputy Queen Valentina Yuriovni, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u62	Please give the word to Marina Victorian Nikita.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u63	Please, Marina Nikita, Marina Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u64	Honorary colleagues, a very important Euro-Integration Bill, which provides more effective mechanisms for representing the integration of agricultural producers, which will help them to defend their rights and interests both to the authorities of the local government and to further join the relevant associations and associations of European agrarian producers and to present Ukraine as an agrarian country in the market of the European Union. Please be very supportive. And I remind you that this bill implements the rules of European regulations, European law in our national legislation and implements part of the EU Association Agreement. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Head, colleagues, please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u67	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Head, respected colleagues, about the unification of agricultural products. The goal is to fulfil Ukraine’s Euro-Integration Commitments in terms of legal and organizational principles, State recognition of agricultural trade unions, and so on and so forth. At first glance, it's a very proper law to do this, but there are a few "buts" that don't allow us to vote for it in the first reading. So in the first reading, we're going to hold on, but if this is corrected to the second, of course we're going to support this bill. First thing. When we talk about this bill, it's written in such a way that the merger of agricultural producers is subject to the Ukrainian Civil Association Act. And not only are we talking about this, but this is what the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is talking about. At the same time, however, such an approach is not fully in line with the constitutionally defined principles for the exercise of the right of citizens to union under article 36 of the Basic Law of Ukraine. This has to be corrected in some way. Another story. It is worth noting that in this bill we delegate part of the powers of the State by means of this association of agricultural producers. To be honest, the Constitution does not provide for such mechanisms. So if we want to do this, we need to write it out so that there is no violation of the Basic Law of Ukraine. And finally. See, in the draft law we propose to amend article 103 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, where we entrust, more precisely, our regulations that the merger of agricultural producers should provide expertise on the bill of a professional committee. First of all, it's already in the responsibility of a profile committee, I don't think it's necessary to prescribe it further. And this is the third point that we think should be corrected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u69	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Voronek Oleg Evgenovich, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u70	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Please pass the word to Murmitch Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u71	Anatoly Petrovich Burmich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u72	Dear Head, my fellow countrymen, the "Deliverance of Ukraine" Group will support this bill. In our view, we are sure that this law is not the only one. Not only is it Euro-Integrated, but this bill will contribute to the development of agriculture, more in-depth processing of products and so on. Such mergers will contribute to the concentration of capital, which in turn will help to resolve issues of deeper agricultural processing and export promotion at a higher added cost. In addition, the representatives of the union will be able to participate in committee meetings, express their wishes for adoption of laws that will protect them more, these producers of agricultural products. In addition, despite the fact that the transfer of powers to such unifications by the State should strengthen and strengthen its influence in terms of the use of chemical additives, such as herbicides or pesticides, as well as its impact on the environment, so that our production is good and good. The "Deliverance of Ukraine" Group supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich instead of Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we have heard today from the Head of the Supreme Council that a group of representatives of each faction worked in Poland under the Jean Monnet Dialogue. Just as we, honourable gentlemen of the Democrats, spoke of the fact that as soon as we see that there are bills in the session room under the heading "European integration", we must clearly understand that this is our goal number one of the whole country, not just the entire parliamentary room, and we must also understand clearly that we trust the subject of the legislative initiative, trust and stand ready to vote with the entire conference room in order to support our introduction to the European family. Unfortunately, the "Fatherland" faction cannot support such innovations that we are now looking at in the agenda in the form of a bill that concerns farmers, because, on the one hand, we are seeing positive Euro-integration things, and on the other hand, we are seeing a number of innovations that are bordering on huge questions about the emergence of corruption with the approval of this bill. The creation of a register of agricultural trade unions requires additional costs from Ukraine’s budget not only for the creation of such bodies but, in fact, for maintenance. There is also the likelihood of a union that will lobby the interests of its members before the authorities of the State, and other farmers will be threatened by unequal market conditions. That's why the Fatherland faction abstains from voting. We ask the Parliament, without excluding all the subjects of the legislative initiative, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u75	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, we move on to a decision, please prepare for the vote. I propose to accept as a basis, by redrafting provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the draft Law on the Unification of Agricultural Producers. Registration number of this bill, 8149. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:35:27]] For 236 Decision taken. The law is adopted on the basis of a redrafting of regulations in accordance with the Rules. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next bill, this is second reading, 7532. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the legal regulation of notarial and registration actions in the acquisition of land rights. We said there'd be a few amendments from Fatherland. Five minutes, replacements. Please, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. And we are voting on this bill as a whole. Please, Zimbaluk, 5 minutes, Mikhail Mikhailovich, it's your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u76	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, for the presidency, for the national MPs. In fact, the bill has positive standards that improve the resolution of individual issues related to the acquisition of ownership of agricultural land. But there are dangerous standards that have not been improved by introducing rights to second reading, and I would like to focus on them. Changes to part two of article 89 of the Ukrainian Land Code provide that all rights and obligations of the landowner are transferred to the trustee only if, according to the law, the property right of the person who has transferred his property to the trust is terminated. This violates the rights of the creditor or the trustee to secure the debtor’s liability under a loan contract, namely, article 597 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. There are restrictions on the use of a trustee’s landowner, perhaps renting, only if the ownership of the person who transferred the property to the trust is terminated. There is another very dangerous thing. This bill cancels (pay attention!) the obligation to provide land-use documentation for the transfer of land to an investor with significant investments. This may lead to the inefficient performance of the State’s functions of ensuring the proper use and protection of land, and this eventually puts all other owners in unequal conditions. In determining the maximum land area of an agricultural assignment, which may be owned by a citizen — 10,000 acres [10,000 ha] — if it belongs to the rights of the common property of a marriage, it will be considered only by the member of the family who is registered to own property. This creates conditions for the concentration of agricultural land in individual families, which is expressly prohibited by existing legislation. The position that the verification of the purchaser or owner of the agricultural land area is not being carried out, the change to part four of the 130th article of the Ukrainian Land Code, in particular the maximum area of land that can be owned, on ownership of agricultural land, which is 0.25 hectares, for private agriculture, 2 hectares, may lead to (attention!) to the concentration of land in persons who violate the requirements for the maximum amount of land that may be owned by a single citizen. So this bill is against the existing law, and this could be a colossal or could be the reason for the bill to be sued if it was approved by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. On the basis of the above, considering the positive things that I have pointed out, it is very sad that the committee at its meeting and the working group did not take into account the changes that we have proposed to improve this bill and to remove the risks that I have raised above, the "Paternity" faction cannot support it as a whole and in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished discussing this bill, we've been through all the revisions. Let's move on to making a decision. Before making a decision, I'm still asking all the subjects of the legislative initiative that are here, even though your good laws are being passed, please, we agree: an hour after this meeting is over. This applies to everyone, everyone, and everyone. It's a deal, colleagues, isn't it? Let's move on. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the legal regulation of notarial and registration activities in the acquisition of land rights (registration number 7532). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:41:47]] For 257 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill, 8137, is an alternative to it, 8137-1. I would like to suggest that we consider these bills in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:42:16]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two in, two in, against, please. Please, Kubi Stepan Ivanovich, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to speak to Mrs. Nina Jujanini. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u79	Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u80	Honorable colleagues did not imagine that national MPs during the war would continue to care for the owners of offshore companies, not for the Armed Forces of Ukraine, not for every soldier, not for the families of the dead. Two years ago, it was here that you relieved yourself of the tax on the income of such owners in the liquidation of controlled foreign companies. You've allowed the Ukrainian budget to receive 45 billion dollars, this money has been left to the owners of companies like these, offshore, and the local budgets have not received 8 billion dollars. And you're saying that we're looking for money with you now for the Ukrainian Armed Forces? Dear colleagues, there are also many people among you who are interested in further weakening the taxation of controlled foreign companies. But have a conscience, it's rather cynical to adopt laws in your favor, not to mention that now is the bloodiest period of our wide-ranging war, not ours, but against Ukraine of the Russian Federation. So I don't take the extension of the KIC's owners at all, and I'm asking you not to take the next step. The war will end, if you actually keep filling the pockets of such owners, do it, but not now. Because you, when you get out of reporting, now you're trying to get those who don't share profits out of reporting, and these are big law firms, these are consulting companies, which, including because of the war, have opened huge offices, these are big companies that are going to work outside of Ukraine with offshore status. And we don't even want to know what these companies are and how many are outside.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u81	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, I just asked you what we were going through, there was no objection, then I have a request: we will all speak and then we will give the floor to two other drafters. Because we agreed on the Conciliation Council only two in favor, two in favour, against it, but the drafters insist. That's why I invite Greenchuk Oksana Anatolyevna, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People." I understand Danilo Alexanderovich will be in her place, right? And then you'll make your own bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, there is no such thing as betrayal. You and I passed for the first time in January of the history of Ukraine, an anti-offshor law, with the proceeds of controlled foreign companies located outside Ukraine. I remember being criticized for this law by those who are now criticizing some changes in the mechanism. What is the law currently being considered? During this period of time, there has been a workable experience that has shown some flaws in the mechanism that you and I have adopted. We had adopted the mechanism for the first time, so obviously some mistakes were made. For example, what do we propose to do in this bill? We specify where and what information tax payers may request from the State Tax Service. Let us clarify the reasons for carrying out documentary non-planned tests. The legal or physical control of controlled foreign companies is determined on December 31st. We define the characteristics of income taxation from securities transactions, define definitions, trust concepts, and fiduciary obligations. We define the features of inclusion in the report on KICs of nonprofit and charitable organizations. So we're taking into account the technical moments that the business is asking us for, which were not included in that bill, which I will repeat for the first time in the history of our country, we've adopted with you in January of the 20th year. Thank you for the fact that the Institute of Anti-Offshore Legislation has taken place today. It's working, but it needs some changes that I'm asking you to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, Sosun Inna Romanovna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u85	Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, let me explain how this bill came about. After the vote of our Parliament and our convening of very important changes in anti-offshoring legislation, so-called BEPS, it was time for the Tax Ministry and the OECD experts involved, and other European experts to make changes to the law. It's a law that is agreed upon by the tax and the Ministry of Finance. When changes were made about offshores, I remember many of my colleagues taking action against them. So what's being proposed right now is equalizing many of the questions that were raised on the ground at the time, they came up in the business and opponents of the bill. Therefore, as the previous speaker rightly said, there is no betrayal. If there is a desire to correct something, it can be done in the second reading. I was present in three working groups where there were tax representatives, Minfin and business associations. The text that just came out is compromised. So what he asked for, but didn't support Minfin, was ruled out. Myfine’s request, but he did not support business, was ruled out. So if we want to make normal working conditions in Ukraine, especially during the war, this bill can probably be adopted in the first reading. If there is a desire to increase fines, strengthen control, this desire can be realized through amendments to the second reading. But the bill is definitely worth looking at in the first reading, which is what all leading business associations are asking, you can check it out by putting the law's number in Google on the news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, John Ivanovich. And then there will be two drafters of the bill, the Getmans and the Razumkovs, and we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u88	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We analyzed this bill together with our experts and during the faction. The "Paternity" faction cannot support it because its analysis shows that the approaches set out in this bill are particularly contrary to those positions and requirements that exist, for example, in organizations such as FATF. Moreover, the following points to this bill are made. In fact, the previously adopted Codex Code on Transfer Prices is halted and softened. It is also controversial to define a controller who owns a controlled foreign company that is obliged to report on the results of the reporting period. The project establishes that it will be just a controller who owns a fraction of the state on December 31st, corresponding to the calendar year, which theoretically opens the way to fraud. The owner of a controlled foreign company, for example, may acquire ownership control for almost a year in part and lose it before the end of the reporting period. For the time being, for the purpose of determining the controlling part of a controlled foreign company, it is necessary to sum up the shares that it shares with any other connected person. At the same time, a project around such individuals is limited to first - degree connected persons, that is, wives and children. The check period may not exceed six months; instead, it does not include a period at which the check period is suspended, which may lead to years of testing. So this bill at first reading we can't support, but let's work on it for second reading and still set the same rules for all businesses and for those companies that work in Ukraine and for those companies that are defined here as controlled foreign companies. We need the rules to be the same for business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this bill. Let's also give the legislators the opportunity to take the initiative. Danilo Alexandrovich, then Dmitri Alexanderovich, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u90	In fact, we discussed and exchanged thoughts on this bill. And from this discussion he understood his need and understood the essence of it, which is solely to correct those technical moments that were sounded from this rostrum. The only thing I'd like to add to the discussion is that almost all associations, large business associations, have turned to each of the heads of the factions with support for this bill, this is the European Business Association, this is the American Chamber of Commerce, this is the Ukrainian Business Council and many other structures that have officially asked us to support this bill with you. This is an important bill, and there is certainly no politics or betrayal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u91	Thank you, Daniel Alexanderovich. Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u92	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council has failed this bill once before and sent it for further work. In fact, he got a little better. And our alternative bill provides for much more useful standards than the basic one supported by the committee. Unfortunately, the "Smart Politics" bill is not supported by the committee. Yet let's speak frankly. When we tell today that there's no money for the Ukrainian Army to pay 30,000, to pay 100,000, we have a deficit, we're allowing money to be spent offshore, we're allowing us to avoid paying taxes in Ukraine. Now that we're starting to talk about how we're going to cancel the 2 percent tax benefits and raise to 5 percent turnover and we're giving off-shore companies the opportunity to work easier when we say we're returning checks to the Ukrainian business, this Ukrainian business is going to go off-shore and not work in our country, it's not going to work here, it's not going to work here, it's not going to pay our Armed Forces, it's not going to be 30,000, it's not going to be 100,000. And we're going to continue to block any initiatives that return these payments. Let's remember that the authors of this bill basically put pressure on small and medium-sized businesses. Let's still be smart, balanced and allow the Ukrainian business to develop in the territory of our country, not to look for a better fate anywhere in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, we've finished discussing these bills. Please take your seats, get ready for the vote, and let's move on to the decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, as a basis for further elaboration, provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to improve the taxation of controlled foreign companies (registration number 8137). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:56:23]] For 241 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Let's move on. Next bill, 6529. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other legislation on special economic and other restrictive measures. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue 6529 with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:57:01]] For 238. Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, two in favour, two in opposition, can we vote without discussion? Then we'll talk about it. Will he be performing, Danilo Alexandrovich? Then two in, two in, against, please. Please, Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People." Dear colleagues, don't break up. Only two people signed up, so we will quickly move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u94	I give the word to the Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u95	Gettmans Danilo Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u96	Honorable colleagues, as well as a bill that has no betrayal whatsoever. In fact, today there has been a situation where persons on the sanctions list cannot pay taxes because they are banned from doing financial transactions. Well, it's unfair, first of all, and second of all, it's foolish, because we have to take taxes from all people, including people under sanctions. Moreover, there are no tax advantages in these individuals. Thus, they are generally compensated for VAT, for example. But can the VAT be compensated to the under-sanctioned? Well, it's probably a question of what is the least that needs to be discussed or even taken down as such. Because, frankly, I wouldn't be able to reimburse the subsanctioned persons for VAT. In addition, the bill provides for the publication of tax information on such subsanctioned persons, the specificity of checks on them and animals, and the cancellation of registration by single taxpayers. That is, this bill on taxable persons so that, on the one hand, the state can get right from them, and on the other hand, we have foreseen certain restrictions on the activities of such persons in the field of taxation. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u97	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. The word is given to national deputy Sauras Maxim Vitaliovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u99	Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Dear colleagues, after that we vote. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, today we're going to talk to you about the Sanctions Act, it's not as simple and it's not as clear as we just told you. Because when you define additional sanctions that will apply to tax legislation, they are included in the Tax Code, remember that there are still a number of actions in this law that must be authorized, including the WACS, including through judicial authorities. For the time being, we still have tax services that have been transformed completely into a penal body. Because the Pro Sanctions Act has the possibility of imposing sanctions in the PNB as an immediate response to crises that threaten Ukraine's national security, it is possible to bring in a kind of entrepreneur, a loving enterprise that will be viewed as a political organ of the PNB. Listen carefully. All the rules of the Sanctions Act allow you to do what you just said the only author of the bill that we are currently considering is the only one. January 19, 2022, ahead of the war, which speaks of the need to impose such sanctions on the Tax Code. I have great doubts that these are standards that are designed to improve tax administration. I am sure of something, and even if you are doubtful right now, remember that the standards of legislation are used in a way that is advantageous to political power, and this rule will be used against business. So please don't back up on the first reading. In fact, it's a shame that you were cynically supportive of the previous law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, we have completed the discussion of this bill, please take your seats. Take your seats. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other legislative acts on the application of special economic and other restrictive measures. Registration number of Bill 6529. Ready to vote? Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the national deputies to vote. [[14:02:40]] For 235 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the next bill we agreed to vote without discussion is Bill 9014-1. This is a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the use of customs declarations and electronic transit systems provided for in the Convention on the Common Transit Procedure for transit under the terms of the Code. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:03:24]] For 276 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the use of customs declarations and electronic transit systems provided for in the Convention on the Common Transit Procedure (Registration No. 9014-1) in accordance with the first part of Article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. Based on that, yeah, yeah. [[14:04:05]] For 291 Decision taken. There's this proposal, I can set it up, I can cut it by half the supply deadline, I can prepare for the second reading of Bill 9014-1. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, dear colleagues, there's such an offer, I'm putting it in, we're not discussing it, it's going to be supported or not supported in the hall. Please, I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 9014-1. Please vote. [[14:04:51]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, thank you. Next bill, no discussion, 9184. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to bring the codes of the UTZED into line with the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:05:26]] For 288 Decision taken. I propose that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code should be adopted in accordance with the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act (Registration No. 9184). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:05:54]] For 289 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft law amending the Code of Customs of Ukraine on the introduction of the codes of the UCTZED in accordance with the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act (Registration No. 9184). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:06:26]] For 266 Decision taken. Ivan Ivanovich, you've been in session, all the decisions that we all make here. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next bill. I apologize, Ivan Ivanovich, once again, all that we agree on at the Conciliation Council meeting is all that I bear. In the end, I'm going to reread it so that we can all confirm it. Well, please, colleagues, let's do it. 9107-1, this is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving bank withdrawal under military conditions. Dear colleagues, this is the second reading. I understand there's going to be an amendment to the 86th by the "ES" faction, right? Five minutes, Nina Petrovna, and we're voting, right? And Julia Volodymyrna, five minutes, right? Five minutes is Nina Petrovna, five minutes is Julia Volodymyrna, and then we vote for the bill as a whole. Please, Nina Petrovna Yuzanin, then Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, instead of amendments, I ask you to listen to our position, because we have long worked on this law and it is our faction that is absolutely clear on the implementation of the sanctions law, because it was adopted in 2014, recognizing the need for an immediate and effective response to the potential threats to Ukraine's national interests and national security. [[Unheard]] But there's one "but." Not only does this law provide grounds and principles for the application of sanctions but it also provides for the types of sanctions that you have just added that are not related to this primary purpose, tax sanctions, but there are also features of applying or cancelling and amending sanctions. Right, just now that we've made some changes to the National Bank Act, we're absolutely right. "For banks and banking," please. We have to deal with the issues clearly right now, and how will sanctions be applied with respect to owners of significant shares of banks that don't have any, for example. who have exclusively Ukrainian citizenship and have no other citizenship, other countries. Because here, the Sanctions Act provides for any decisions, any kind of sanctions against such Ukrainian citizens, exclusively Ukrainian citizens, I repeat, certain features. Some features are that the use of sanctions by a political body such as the National Security and Defence Council should be under the control of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine. And this is now provided for by legislation, which is faster as if it were a time frame for considering such decisions, in order for them to actually be effective. But in this draft law, our chief regulator, the National Bank of Ukraine, is given exclusive powers that are unconstitutional and contravene the Sanctions Act. We've been trying to work with all the authors: both the Justice Ministry and the National Bank of Ukraine to prove that now the decisions that will be made must be constitutional and legitimate. We're not talking about those unresolved issues after the adoption of many of our laws that we hoped were working for the National Bank, but those rules were not enough, about the withdrawal of failed system banks from the market. Now it's about getting the systematically important banks out of the market. But there was another problem: The National Bank was obliged to decide on the liquidation of a small Ukrainian bank, which is not systematic, but with regard to the beneficiary, a significant owner, whose decision was taken by the PNB. So I hope that, with regard to non-systemic banks, which, in their words, are not essential at all, they will only add jobs to the National Bank and will not contribute to the reasonable spending of the Investment Guarantee Fund or the State Budget, which is likely to require such withdrawal of the bank's license, the liquidation of such a bank could be considered, considered, not mandatory, but could be the decision of the National Bank. And with regard to identifying owners such as Ukrainian citizens who no longer have any citizenship, this bill should also be amended. So unfortunately, we can't support it right now, even though we are among those who have just initiated this law and must be, and continue to fight hard against all those owners who are funding our aggressor country, who have previously financed it. And there's even traces of this in the banking sphere, but there's not enough evidence for the courts at the National Bank, as we've been told. So we're going to keep voting, and hopefully we're going to prove this law so that all the rules are constitutional next time, and we're not going to keep voting in the hall because we understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u103	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, five minutes. And after that, we vote, dear colleagues. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, you are well aware that this is about the fact that system banks, which are the founders of subsanctioned individuals or legal entities, do not have the right to operate in Ukraine. Under this law, they are nationalized and continue to be governed by the interests of our nation. But the second part of this bill is non-systemic banks that have subsanctionees in the founders. And here's the thing about these banks being non-systemic, they're essentially going to be getting out of the market, getting rid of them. But there are Ukrainian customers in each bank, that is, those who have used the services of this bank, who keep deposits there, who have deposits, who have bills. And so in no case do we have the right to adopt such a law that customers of Ukrainian natural, legal persons order just because they kept their money or accounts in that bank. That's why we suggested that the non-system banks that have the founders of the subsanctioned persons should also be nationalized and then privatized and continue to live as Ukrainian banks. But this proposal did not pass, and unfortunately, in cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, the National Bank is obliged to withdraw these banks from the Ukrainian banking market, which is wrong. But at the same time, if it was not possible to take this proposal into account, we asked for an appeal that all customers of such non-systemic banks that are out of the market should be compensated for all the losses at the expense of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. There was no such thing in this law. And I want to thank the Head of the National Bank and the relevant experts of the National Bank, as well as the head of Mr. Gettmansze's committee, who went to meet and included a claim to compensate for the losses of bank customers that are being pulled out of the market, which are being held by the founders of the subsanctionees to compensate them for their losses from the Deposit Guarantee Fund. It is very important that in such sensitive things we are able, power, opposition, to find understanding. And I want to say that this understanding of our customers of these banks, who really have to be removed from the Ukrainian banking market, will compensate financial resources. It's very important. And I would also like to address the committee's head with appreciation that you've assembled this committee in exchange for this amendment, carried out this amendment, and we've reached a compromise. That's why we voted in favour of this law for the first time, and for the second time, we take down all our other amendments and we vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a wonderful consensus. Thank you to all who have reached this consensus, both to the head of the committee, and to the opposition who have worked hard for the benefit of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite the people's deputies to the hall, so let's move on to the decision-making process. All colleagues spoke on their amendments. You want a few words, don't you? Thank you, too, I guess. Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, this bill is actually an example of how opposition and authority in the Supreme Council and with the regulator should work together, and with the executive authority to achieve the goals that lie ahead of the country. In fact, the bill is very difficult, really the bill has caused fear, caused debate, and in fact we have given a lot of time to manage it. However, the compromise we see in the hall today is the result of our work together. We've actually achieved, I think, the optimal mechanism that will allow us to nationalize, without getting out of the market, the system banks that own the subsension list. On the other hand, if the bank is small, eliminate it in such a way that it does no harm to their investors so that all 100 percent of the deposits they have are paid to investors. In view of the above, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u107	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. And I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for the withdrawal of a bank from the market in a state of war (registration number of Bill 9107-1). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[14:18:43]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, show me the factions, please. Again the second, respected colleagues. Please support me and send this bill to read again. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:19:25]] For 264 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Or it could have been the first time. Let's move on. Then we agreed on three bills without discussion. It's 4573. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine regarding the improvement of public policy for the administration of public and municipal property. I propose to adopt draft Law No. 4573 as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:20:14]] For 243 Decision taken. The law is adopted as a basis. Next, Bill 7651. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Inland Water Transport on Navigation during the introduction of war or state of emergency. We agreed, too, without discussion. I'm proposing to adopt this bill as a basis. Bill 7651. Please vote. [[14:20:53]] For 261 Decision taken. The next bill is Bill 0193. This is a draft law on the ratification of Decision No. 1/2022 of the Joint Committee established under the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Macedonia on the replacement of Protocol B to the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Macedonia and Decision No. 2/2022 of the Joint Committee established under the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Macedonia on the replacement of Protocol C to the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Macedonia on the definition of the concept of the origin of goods and methods of administrative cooperation. I propose to adopt Bill 0193 as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal rights. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:22:00]] For 279 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Next with discussion 0191. This is a draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic on commercial shipping. I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner and ask the people's deputies to vote. [[14:22:33]] For 254 Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, we're writing two in favour, two in favor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u108	Kowalczuk, Servant of the People, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Jaremenko Bogdan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u110	Bogdan Vasilovich Jaremenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, the law that we are currently considering is related to the need to review the entire Syrian Arab Republic’s relationship with the Syrian Arab Republic, which is prompted by the State’s decision to recognize the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine as state entities. This decision of the Syrian Arab Republic has led to a breakup of diplomatic relations between our nations. And to this day, Ukraine is doing a smooth job of reviewing the treaty base and the political relationship. That's what we have to do. This is our activity, directed, one of the forms of resistance to the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u112	Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u113	Please give Alexia the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u114	Alexei Honcharenko "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u115	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. It's absolutely the right decision to break up all relations with this Syrian Arab Republic, because it's actually occupied by Russia, where another tyrant and cannibal like Putin is Bashar al-Assad. There's absolutely no doubt about it. The question is, my friends, what we're looking at in the Syrian Arab Republic, we've broken the relationship, everything's right, and with cannibal Lukashenko, we're still in a diplomatic relationship. Already in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, our delegation had the honour of being the first author of the rights, but other colleagues were, together, we made it clear that Lukashenko was involved in the genocide of Ukrainians. A corresponding appeal was made to the International Criminal Court. So tell me, are we going to maintain diplomatic relations with the cannibal who is involved in the genocide, the self-proclaimed usurper of Belarus? How long is this going to take, my friends? Let's finally take a hard stand. In the Supreme Council, there is a draft decree of our Democratic Belarus MPs, which provides for the recognition of Belarus occupied, the breakup of all relations, to be made to remove Lukashenko's Belarus from all international organizations and institutions. What are we waiting for? Every day there are missiles, drones, and we're killed, and we have Lukashenko, we've finally called off the ambassador. So what's the message? Break relationships and dot. That's what we need to do right now. And such a harsh position should be for everyone. But now I'm going to finish every single one of my speeches with the words, "return the extras to the military." And once again, pay back to the military! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u116	Thank you, Alexia. Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose to vote a proposal to adopt, on the basis and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic on commercial shipping (0191 registration number). Please vote. [[14:27:06]] For 264 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Let's move on to the next bill. We agreed without discussion. Draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic on Trade, Economic and Technical Cooperation (Registration No. 0195). I'm betting on the vote to accept as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[14:27:48]] For 268. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The next bill with registration number 9060, we agreed to a discussion. The draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of all foreign states, the European Parliament and the International Atomic Energy Agency to impose sanctions on the Russian state power corporation Rosat and to take steps to reduce cooperation with the Russian Federation in the field of nuclear energy. We need a series of votes. I would like to place the bill in the agenda of the day’s session (registration number 9060). Please vote. [[14:28:39]] For 278 Decision taken. The law is included in the order of the day’s session. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[14:29:01]] For 246 Please, the authors are Inna Romanovna Sosun.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u117	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, what is this decision about? This decision is to ask our colleagues from other parliaments, MAGATES to finally acknowledge that Russia is a nuclear terrorist country. And the main weapon she uses in this battle is Rosat. Rosatoma and related companies are occupying the largest nuclear power plant in Europe — the Zaporozhye nuclear power plant. They took the employees of the power station hostage, tried to connect the station to the Russian energy system. In the hands of the invaders, the so - called peace atom has become a nuclear threat to the entire world. But not only in the field of nuclear power is Rosatome a threat. Rosatoma likewise today provides technology and raw materials for the Russian army, by which they produce fuel for missiles that then kill us in our homes, and Putin does so with Rosatome’s hands. At the same time, the Russian nuclear company still receives a $140 billion foreign investment, more than all the international support of Ukraine in this war. But at the same time, Rosat to this day, to this day, goes through all kinds of sanctions. Why? Because, unfortunately, for a large number of countries, including our partners in the European Union and in North America, it is convenient. Why? Because Russia takes almost half of the production, processing and enrichment of uranium, including in countries such as the United States, France, and Canada. And unfortunately, today most countries are not ready to talk actively about what Rosatoma needs to be included in the sanctions lists. So I'm asking my colleagues to support this initiative to, on the one hand, impose sanctions now, limit Rosatom's influence on world politics and stop the construction of new nuclear power plants that Rosatom continues to build around the world, expanding its political influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u118	Thank you, Inna Romanovna. From the committee, please, Bogdan Vasilovich Jaremenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u119	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, at its meeting on 20 March 2023, discussed the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Parliaments of All Foreign States, the European Parliament and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the imposition of sanctions on the Russian state power corporation Rosat and the introduction of measures to reduce cooperation with the Russian Federation in the field of nuclear energy. And I decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that this draft decision be adopted on the basis of, and in general, taking into account, the technical legal rights and the proposed committee changes and additions to names, and the texts of the draft regulations and references that were added to the committee's submission. The purpose of the draft decision is to bring together the efforts of the world community and international organizations to put an end to the nuclear terror system of the Russian Federation through the imposition of sanctions and other comprehensive measures to enhance world nuclear security and to restrict cooperation with the State sponsor of terrorism in the relevant sphere. I'd like to support you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u120	Thank you. Request to register: two in, two in, two in. Please, Gnatenko, "Delivery of Ukraine", Valerius Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u121	Please pass the word to Frost Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u122	Please, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u123	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Rosatoma for Russia is the same geopolitical tool as Gazprom in the supply of blue fuel. It's not about a clean economy, it's about science. The imposition of sanctions against Rosatom worldwide will allow for a broader strategy to reduce Russia’s influence on the world arena and ensure international security. Undoubtedly, the restrictions on the Russian nuclear sphere will be a painful blow to the Russian federal budget, which will limit Russia's ability to continue the war against Ukraine. Today, Rosat, along with the Russian military, is responsible for the fact that the world is on the verge of far more terrifying than Chernobyl. The situation at Zaporozhye’s AES is becoming more complex, in fact, nuclear terror at the same level as the forecast of the use of nuclear weapons. The parliamentary group "Deliverance of Ukraine" supports the adoption of this request to Parliament. The world must show its determination and consistency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u124	Thank you. Please, Trust, Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich. Okay. Then Maxim Arkadyovich, "Serve of the People", Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u125	Please pass the word to Andrew Gerus.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u126	Andrew Mikhailovich Gerus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, the Western civilized world has already imposed quite a lot of sanctions on energy sources originating in the Russian Federation, both for coal and for gas and for oil. And there's another big sector that's not yet covered by sanctions -- this is the company, the Rosatom Corporation, the Rosatom Group, where there's a lot of different businesses that work for military purposes, too. In recent times, we have seen that the first sanctions against individual officials have already been imposed against the individual enterprises of this group, Rosatom. But it's going to take a total, huge scale for the whole Rosat to be covered with appropriate sanctions, and for the Russian occupation regime to be responsible for all the actions they're doing, including nuclear power plants, such as the Nuclear Power Plant. So the "Serial of the People" faction will support the appropriate determination, and everyone's request will also support this determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u128	Please, Friz Irina Vasilovna, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u129	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u130	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, in the past century, the Russian Federation and the Russian occupation of Ukraine have actually caused the greatest nuclear catastrophe in history. And this catastrophe has caused a great and irreparable disaster both to Ukraine and to the entire planet. Recently, you and I honored the memory of the victims of the Chernobyl disaster, which poisoned our lands, forests, rivers, and destroyed many innocent souls. But radiation did not only pollute our territories. And this is an example of the fact that barbarians cannot be hindered and at rest. Barbarians cannot be ignored, distances and borders cannot be saved from their irresponsibility. And the current Russian occupation reminded the world of these dangers when the Russians invaded the Chernobyl AES, destroyed the Red Forest when they pushed military technology into Zaporozka AES when their missiles flew over the South Ukrainian AES. And finally, now these inhumans are blackmailing even more of the planet, the entire planet with nuclear weapons, moving and moving the boundaries of the gap. The whole world has to answer them no, the whole world, we have to call on the whole world and get its help not to let Russia pose such a serious threat to us and the world. And Russia's blackmail must run into planetary solidarity. And that's why we support this decision, and we believe that both Rosat and the neighbouring organizations, and the Kurchatova Institute, should be isolated and punished for their crimes in Ukraine and for the blackmail of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u132	Thank you. From Fatherland, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please. And we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u133	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Colleagues, is actually a very important decision, and the Fatherland faction will vote for it. Today, the Russian Federation is using Rosat to influence not only the European community. We see that in Turkey too, Rosatoma has completed the construction of an atomic, how they affect neighbouring Hungary and a number of our European states, which today are partners of Ukraine. This draft decree shows our position to the international community on sanctions pressure, because Rosatoma, not just MAGATE, Rosatoma, is the supply of weapons ingredients produced today by the Russian Federation from world producers. This should be avoided and stopped, we vote in favour!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, yes, while we are going to vote, please invite colleagues, I would like to remind you that on April 26, we haven't met since then, were the anniversary of our tragedy, the Chernobyl nuclear tragedy. And now the Russian Federation of Aggressor States is doing everything they can to reduce nuclear safety at another nuclear station of ours. And I would also like to honor the memory of all liquidators, mention them for a moment of silence, and thank those liquidators present at the Supreme Council Hall. Yuri Grigorovich Kisiel is one of the liquidators of the Chernobyl tragedy. Let's thank you and then pay tribute to the moment of silence of all liquidators. [[Applause]] [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Prepare to vote, please. I would like to propose a motion for a vote to be adopted in general, taking into account the proposals made by the Committee and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision No. 9060 on the Application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Parliaments of All Foreign States, the European Parliament and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the imposition of sanctions on the Russian state-owned corporation of Russian nuclear energy "Rosat" and the introduction of measures to reduce cooperation with the Russian Federation in the field of nuclear energy. Please vote. [[14:41:19]] For 298 Decision taken. The decree was passed in general. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u135	Thank you, Your Honor. The next bill we have is 6,504 -- this is the draft Law on Service in Local Self-Government. It's a second reading. We agreed that there were only 449 Vlasenka's revisions, and he's not in the hall, so we can go right now. Is there going to be an editing? Who's it gonna be? Pavelka Rostislav, please. What's the amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u136	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, number 66. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you. I comment on her, I don't insist on voting on the amendment. Dear colleagues, please note that this bill foresees, among other things, a rather questionable position that officials of local self-government are losing their right to membership in political parties. These officials of local self - government thus cannot express their political position, even if they are members of the respective councils. This is what we consider to be a fundamental limitation of their constitutional rights, and I very much ask you to pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u137	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna, you raised your hand something. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u138	Set up the Vlasenka, it was a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u139	And Vlasenko's right, only Vlasenko can place it under the Rules. You have a letter from Vlasenko, yes, I understand? Okay. Give me a letter from Vlasenko, will you? Then, dear colleagues, the 449 revision of Vlasenka. They have a letter. It's a letter, isn't it? Okay. Dear colleagues, the 449th Amendment of Sergey Vlasenka. She's been rejected by the committee. The author insists on taking her into account. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:50]] For-125 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on Service in Local Self-Government (registration No. 6504). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:44:28]] For 263 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill, 9101, we agreed to a discussion. I'm going to put it in the order of the day session first. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:45:01]] For 272 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:45:22]] For 234 Decision taken. Let's write it down: two in a row, two in a row. Right, colleagues? Please two in, two in, two in. Please give the floor to the national MP Greenchuk Oksani Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u140	Please pass the word Upper Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u141	Please, Victoria Upstairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, for 433 days, Ukraine has been opposed to a cruel enemy. Butch and Lenyukka, Mariupol Dramatry, concentration camps in the Jakodno basement, shot by civilian cars with the inscription "children", torture, and the savage killings of unarmed prisoners. Today, we are getting new evidence that we are fighting a real evil, an evil known today as racism. The term "racism" is becoming more and more common in the world, especially with the publications of famous scientists like Timothy Snyder. Rashism has become a symbol of absolute evil. And to conquer evil, we must call it his real name. For more than six months, the national deputies of all factions, experts, scientists, worked on this decision. The working group examined this issue in a comprehensive way. And today we propose to define racism as a new kind of totalitarian ideology and social and political practices that are used by the regime formed by the Russian Federation in Putin, based on the traditions of Russian chauvinism and imperialism, the practice of the Communist regime of the Stalinic era and German national socialism. The most important signs of racism that determine the policy of the Putinian Russia are the systematic violation of the rights and principles of international law, the sovereign rights of other states, the self-glorification of Russia by means of violent oppression and the denial of the existence of other peoples, the application of the ideas of the Russian world to expansionist policies of the Russian State, the use of prohibited methods of warfare and the systematic commission of war crimes. We claim, solved against Ukraine by cruel, bloody, unjust war is a direct result of ideology and sociopolitical practices of racism. Racism is a direct threat to world order and security. We call on the international community to recognize the current political regime of the Russian Federation that uses this ideology of racism as a criminal and the Russian Federation as a terrorist state. Rashism must be outside the law in the world. This is an important step toward the restoration of justice and attraction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u143	Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u144	To overcome the disease, a diagnosis is needed. To win a battle against evil, it is important to call things our names. This ruling officially recognizes that the Russian regime is based on a new type of totalitarian ideology and practice — racism. The Supreme Council's statement is that racism is based on the traditions of Russian chauvinism and imperialism, the practice of the Communist regime of the Soviet Union and German national socialism. This is very important for understanding the nature of the evil that Ukraine and the entire civilized world have faced. Because today's war is not just the Putin war, the ideology of racism is deeply pervaded by Russian society. Although racism follows the world’s view and aesthetics of Hitler’s and Stalin’s regimes, its roots are much deeper. Rashism strongly insisted on the characteristics of Russian statehood and culture, longed for by social hatred of unstoppable imperial ambitions and aggressive rematching. In condemning racism, we find that the war against Ukraine is its direct result and call on the world to unite efforts to overcome the threats that racism poses to the peace and security of all mankind. In support of this decision, the Supreme Council will take an important step to promote worldwide understanding of the essence and causes of this war, and hence the nearness of victory in this war. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u145	Heroic glory! Please, Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyevna, The Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u146	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, by this decree and this vote we have today, the Supreme Council is probably making one of the most historic decisions since the beginning of the Great War on 24.02.2022. Why? Because we're actually in the textbooks of our world textbooks, we're introducing a completely new term that doesn't have any identical, close, other phenomena, political trends, ideologies. We will forget, at last, the comparison with Nazism, fascism. But unfortunately, we rarely mentioned Bolshevism and Communism, which in Ukraine was condemned only in 2016, if I'm not mistaken, the year. We grew up on these plants that plagued our nation. And unfortunately, those who are driving, or those who are from those areas, Luhanskina, Donetskina, South, Zaporozhye, Dnipropetrovsk, Kirovogradsk, which will eventually be renamed this area, are all that has been growing for us in fact the ground, giving us this pleasant swamp from the west to the Russians in those places, and not even destroying the monuments to which you can put the flowers under occupation. This is what happened to Lugansk and what is happening to Donetskina today. That's why what's happening to all of us today, the way it's repeated again, the history textbooks, what we've been teaching, the memories, the torture, the killing, the deportation, the rape, the ban on having Ukrainian children and children who take away the past, and then the future, it's all actually got a worse name than just racism. But today we have to give a clear name -- it's just racism, the world's unique evil, evil regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u147	Please, Your Honor, still Krulko Ivan Ivanovich and then Bilozoz Larissa Mikolayevna, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u148	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fascists of the future will call themselves anti - Fascists. These words belong to Winston Churchill, and they are prophetic, which very well characterize the Russian regime, which consistently appeals to their struggle with fascism. In fact, they have all the signs of an authoritarian terrible system that can be clearly called racism today. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this application. And we really believe that this crime should not only be condemned as an ideology but also a new tribunal, a tribunal over those criminals, war criminals who commit war crimes against Ukrainian citizens who abuse the memory that has completely turned into a beastly ideology.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u149	Please, Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, there is still fascism today in the 21st century, and it is now even more bloodthirsty, destructive, and hateful. When we win, the fundamental question will be: How can we punish war criminals? And I am sure that if everyone fulfills their responsibility, if no one neglects him, then every criminal will be punished. I repeat, every criminal will be punished and we will do everything we can to achieve his goal as quickly as possible. Dear colleagues, it is up to us how the world community will identify the Russian regime. And we need to call things our names: Russia is a terrorist state; the Russian regime is a criminal, it's Russian fascism.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, please prepare to make a decision. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a proposal that takes into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the definition of the existing political regime in the Russian Federation as racism and condemning its ideological principles and social practices as totalitarian and hateful (registration No. 9101). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:55:36]] For 281 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next bill, 9154, is a draft law amending article 70 of Ukraine's Health Law (on the work of military and medical commissions). It's the second reading, my esteemed colleagues. Mikhailo Borisovich, please come here. We agreed to make amendment 15 to Heratchenko, and we vote. Right? Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna, 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, we are now discussing an extremely important bill, the purpose of which is to really improve and simplify the establishment of military-medical commissions that are overloaded today. But it's very important that this bill works. And that's why the 15 amendments relate to the key – the money from which these military-medical commissions will be financed. We're proposing with our colleagues the next amendment, and I'm asking her very much to support that the commissions can be set up within the limits of the budget provided for in the State budget, the local budgets at the state and municipal health institutions in the order set up by the Cabinet of Ministers. We believe that this amendment is crucial, it will fill the bill with a content to finance these VLCs. Just so it's not something we made on paper, we're good here, and in fact they're just not going to be financed. Because, as you know, there's a lot of money in medicine on the profile committee as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u153	Please take the seat of the committee, Mikhailo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u154	It's not because it's bad, it's beautiful, but in the final version of the law that approved the committee for second reading, it's like, "The military-medical commissions can also be created at public and municipal health institutions." And that means that the NHRI already has a government-approved package that will pay for the services of military and medical commissions. Therefore, the remedy is rejected, not because it is bad, but because it is in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u155	Irina Volodymyrna, you insist, right? You insist. I'm putting 15 amendments to Irina Heratchenko's authorship. The committee explained its position, he rejected it and demanded that it remain rejected, and the author insists that it be taken into account. I'll put 15 amendments to the vote. Please vote. [[14:58:16]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending article 70 of the Constitution on Health Protection (for the work of the Military and Medical Commissions) (registration No. 9154). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:58:59]] For 287 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The following Bill 9158, a second reading, is also related to work in the medical field. We agreed that we have three amendments to Irina Heraszczenko, partially accounted for, she's asking for a three-minute replacement, and she's putting in amendments 1 and 52. Then there'll be two, three amendments to the Fatherland faction and 47 amendments to Radina, and then we'll vote. And one amendment from the potterenko, right? Alexi, while I give Irina three minutes Volodymyr and you come up and tell me what number the amendment is. Irina Volodymyrna, three minutes, please, yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u156	Thank you. Can I do it in another order, I'll fix the vote first, and then I'll take three minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u157	But no, Irina Volodymyrna, we need to discuss how we can vote without justification for your amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u158	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, therefore, are in the body of the bill to amend the Statute of the Internal Service of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the improvement of documents and the treatment of military personnel during the war. It is very important to realize that to this day, taking into account the number of injured, our venerable heroes have been forced to stand in these humiliating queues for days, even those with amputated limbs, in order to get help on disability, disability, injury and injury. And actually, the purpose of this bill is to make it easier to get these documents, to clear these queues. We were preparing an alternative bill with fellow students who had a high rating of trained military doctors in order to do so. Mr. Poturaev, we can ask you to sit down. Mr. Poturiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u160	You know, I want to pay attention to the chairman at all, that, well, in general, we're discussing very serious bills, all the time we see a very large disrespect for the session room for the intellectual work of colleagues. As chairman, you might want to pay attention to the behavior of your colleagues in the hall. I'm not comfortable talking to my back, not the president and my colleagues. Thank you. So we're now discussing bills that deal with simplifying the receipt of military assistance. And in fact, we think that unfortunately, the amendments proposed by our team weren't taken into account by the committee. And so, despite all the importance of this bill, there are risks of abuse, because this bill, for example, removes the issue of investigating the conditions under which military personnel were injured, injured, or disabled. Although we feel that under certain circumstances this should be checked by appropriate investigation, we have made these adjustments. Because it's very important that we clean up all the bureaucracy here, but at the same time, there's no way that we have military hospitals today that we don't have military medical kits, at a time when V.V.C. has doctors working there for free. And we understand why. Because, unfortunately, these committees have not only volunteering but also corruption. And here's the way that there are risks left in this bill, we think there's going to be abuse. And so please consider our amendments to what is possible for these committees to leave the investigation and cancel it where there are really fighting and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, Irina Volodymyrna spoke for three minutes. Now I'm going to put 1st and 52th amendments to the vote, they're both rejected by the committee, so please prepare. I'll bet 1 of Irina Heratchenko's authorship on account. The committee rejected them, and the author insists on taking them into account. Vote 1 amendment, please. [[15:03:30]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 52 amendment of the authorship of Gerashchenko. The committee also rejected it, and the author insists on taking this amendment into account. I'll bet you 52. Please vote. [[15:03:58]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Let's move on. Then we've got three minutes of Cymbaluk instead of our amendments. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u162	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the presidency, the honourable colleagues, we are today considering a very, very important bill, and life itself has indicated what it should be like. I thank the committee for its professional work on this bill. And what's important is that it's with him that we're clarifying how to get help with the injury, the injury of a military officer. It is very important that this bill will not require military personnel from the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military forces to travel back to the military part of the military. This is extremely important because these manuals will be digitized, including already in electronic form. It's also the kind of benefit that this bill makes life easier for both military personnel and doctors who work for the Military Medical Commission. And it's very important for the social protection of the military. This is an important political moment that the State is thus supporting all those who are costing their health and sometimes their lives to defend peace in Ukraine. I suggest that my colleagues do not delay their time, to vote on this bill. And, Mr. Chief of the Supreme Council, we ask that you sign it and direct it to the President-in-chief for his signature. Thank you. And glory to all those who today defend our peace and peace in the state and glory in Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u163	Heroic glory! Come on, Radina. 47 amendments, partially counted. I understand Anastasia Olegovna will insist on taking full account. Please, Anastasia Olegna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u164	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Please consider Amendment 47, and take it fully into account in the amendment, since it is now only partially counted by the committee. What should we do with this law? To stop the abuse of wounded military personnel, we must stop forcing them to travel throughout the country with medical records, as if they were couriers. This amendment clearly states that the obligation to transmit medical documents lies with the local assembly centres or medical facilities. Please, colleagues, support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u165	What is the position of the committee? Alexander Sergiyovich, I'm sorry, I asked the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u166	Yes, the amendment was partially taken into account because we cannot determine the tasks of health institutions through the Statute of the Armed Forces. But given the social resonance and what Mrs. Radina is also proposing to define the responsibility for document editing and the territorial centres of compilation and social support, I personally ask that you take this amendment into account. It will provide an opportunity to speed up the reform of the VLC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand your position. 47 amendments, partially counted. Anastasia Olegovna just explained why she asked to be taken fully into account. You also heard the committee's position. So I'm going to make 47 amendments, and I'm going to take it completely into account. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:08:10]] For 266 Decision taken. And, I understand, Alexi Hotcharenko is asking for three minutes instead of all his amendments. Yes, Alexi? Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u168	Yes. And the vote after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u169	The numbers, then tell me right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u170	Yes, please. This is Amendment 2, this is Amendment. Do we have to count everyone now? Number 2, number 12, number 53 and number 22, number 21. And number 21.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u172	Dear friends, first of all, here's the news: the decision of the Supreme Council that we have expelled the deputy of Geo Leros, has been annulled as illegal. Congratulations to everyone who voted for this, you voted in favour of an illegal decision. And actually, I welcome the entire Parliament seriously, because that means that whatever the balance is, the Supreme Council is already completely controlled by Mr. Jermak, the Supreme Court, I'm so looking at it, not completely, though it is. All right, that's good. The other one. I'm talking about these rights, and in general, the military-medical commissions are a matter of principle. We're talking about payments to the military today, I said I'd say all over the place, return the payments to the military, and the same thing here. Because we're talking to heroes of fame, glory, glory, and in fact all of our respect for the military, go to any V.V.C. and see, there are people standing, someone without a leg, someone without an eye, injured, standing in line -- it's just some kind of abuse of people. They're told to make a copy, go across the road, do a xerox. He goes with this leg, with this hand, wounded man, how many questions. I have a hot line for the military, you have no idea what's going on. Hundreds of petitions a day and a lot of questions and complaints about the work of military medical commissions. An unfit person - they say is limitedly appropriate. And a single story, when it's declared unfit, it's driven out of the state and you still get months just for title, only it's given 700 dollars or 800 dollars, nothing more. They don't let go of the army, they don't demolish it, but they don't pay for it, it's just a disaster. It's a matter of disrespect for our military, for the heroes we talk about every day, and for whom we swear in glory and respect. Guys, let's get this fixed up. This bill, of course, must be voted on. I'm asking you to support my revisions, they're all about that to make it easier. But, friends, that's not enough, that's not enough, we need to translate all of this into electronic form, we need to allocate the resources there to make it happen in a normal manner with respect to the military, so that we don't abuse the person who still has the hand to grow up, the lords to forgive, or else something will happen when we're chasing ten circles of hell. So, my friends, it's urgent to fix and return.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, I'm about to make four adjustments to the potcherenko. You've heard the argument, now we're going to ask the committee to comment on it, and then we're going to put in a bill as a whole. Please take the position of the Committee on Amendments 2, 12, 21 and 53 by Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u174	The amendments were taken into account in part or in an editorial way, and we did our best to balance the bill. With regard to the powers to be exercised at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, this is regulated accordingly by the already prepared sub-legislative acts that will activate the reform of the VLC as soon as the President signs the bill. So there's no point in determining what should be done by the Cabinet of Ministers at the level of the law that was done. This law is a framework for the reform of the VLC, next right behind the Kabmin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, I'll make the four amendments in turn. Amendment 2, rejected by the committee, is the authorship of Hotcharyenko, and Hotcharyenko insists on taking her into account. I'm betting on the vote, you've heard the position. [[15:12:51]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. 12 revisions. The committee's dismissed, the arguments are heard, it's the authorship of Hotcharenko, he's asking to be taken into account. Please vote. [[15:13:17]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 21 revisions of Gončarenko's authorship. The committee's dismissed. The author is asking to be counted. I ask you to vote. [[15:13:39]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Did I set up all your repairs? Everyone, right? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. 53rd, I'm just. 53rd, right? 53 revisions. Why? You've made your point. 53. An amendment to the authorship of the same Potter. It is also rejected by the committee, and the author also asks for consideration. Please vote. [[15:14:19]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've been through all the repairs. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Constitution of the Ukrainian Armed Forces (Registration No. 9158). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:15:03]] For 291 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues, and thank you. Let's move on. Then we agreed on the next bill without discussion, please don't leave. So I'm immediately proposing, it's 9152, to include Bill 9152 in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:15:36.]] For 277 Decision taken. I propose to adopt the draft Law amending part two of article 4 of the Ukrainian Civil Code for the Improvement of the Legislative Procedure (registration No. 9152). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:16:05]] For 282 Decision taken. And I would like to make a final proposal to adopt in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending part two of article 4 of the Ukrainian Civil Code for the Improvement of the Legislative Procedure (registration No. 9152). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:16:39]] For 283 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The law is passed in general. This is a very important decision. From now on and changes to the Civil Code, we make separate laws to prevent them from being buried under different legislative acts, as we do in Criminal, Criminal, and other codes. Thank you, Igor Fries, for this brilliant initiative. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, 8244. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Labour Code. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:17:31]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's a need to discuss it, isn't there? Or let's not discuss it. Oh, no? Then two in, two in, against. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I don't mind, but we agreed to discuss it, because there are factions that want to discuss it, and that's their holy right. Please sign up: two in, two in. Only the factions that want to discuss are recorded. Please, National Deputy Schwacko Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u176	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to Galina Trelyakowi.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u177	Please, Galina Mikolayevna Trelyyakowa
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u178	Honourable People's Deputies, the Euro-Integration Bill and implements the Ukrainian legislation of the 2001 Council Directive. It deals with the protection of work, the rights of employees in the case of transfer of an enterprise or business structure, or part of an enterprise to establish the obligation of a new employer to inform workers of the change in the owner of the enterprise, on the one hand. On the other hand, they continue to act in the same way as the entire scope of social rights and collective agreements made by the predecessor. It's a bill to protect the rights of hired workers. Please support and finally establish such protection in legislation at the level of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u179	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of European Solidarity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u180	Dear Mr. Head, may I present Irina Nicorak's first speech, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u181	Please, National Deputy Irina Nicorak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, the "European Solidarity" faction welcomes the government's intentions to adapt Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation and generally not to adopt as a basis. Although the document refers to Euro-integration, we believe that it does not take fully into account the position of European directives, namely, that the project does not have guarantees for the preservation of the status and functions of employees, as provided for in Article 6 of Directive 2001/23/EC, which establishes that an undertaking or a business structure retains its autonomy, the status and functions of employees affected by the change of the owner are maintained under the same conditions. Nor does the bill reflect the position of part three of article 3 of the directive, which states that after the change of the owner of the enterprise, the position and conditions agreed upon in the collective labour contract should be respected. In particular, add termination or termination of a collective agreement or entry into force or application of another collective agreement. The document does not take into account that, apart from the reorganization of a legal person, the succession takes place in the case of a legal person. In such a case, the employee’s working relationship with the legal person should also be extended. Our faction will support this project, taking into account the proposals I have read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u183	The word is given to John Grigorovich Kirilenko, faction of the Fatherland. I understand he'll pass on the word, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, this is the case when a spoon is added to an important Euro-Integration Bill. Let me give you an example. In support of the need for the adoption of a draft Act amending the Code of Labour Laws of Ukraine on labour law enforcement, the Government argues that it provides for the introduction of national labour legislation in accordance with the provisions of the EU Directive. This is a directive on the approximation of the laws of Member States relating to the protection of workers' rights in the case of the transfer of an enterprise or part of an enterprise to establish the employer's obligation to notify the worker of the change in the owner of the enterprise. In support of the importance of implementing this directive, I draw your attention to some of the shortcomings of the bill. And first, in the proposed new article 36. 1 The Labour Code reflects one of the basic principles of the directive, namely that the employer’s rights and duties are transferred to the successor. However, the project does not take into account the important position of the directive that the successor continues to adhere to the terms and conditions agreed upon in the collective agreement under the same conditions as to the termination or conclusion of another collective agreement. Thus, the project does not provide that the employer’s rights and obligations are transferred not only under individual employment contracts but also under collective agreements. In order to meet the standards, the directives must be established by law. The other one. The new article 36 of the Labour Code only provides for the ability of employees and their representatives to consult with the employer. On the other hand, the directives stipulate that the employer is obliged to take these initiatives and to contact the representatives of the labour force, the trade unions to continue implementing the collective agreement, the agreement or the conclusion of the new agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand that Alexander Sergiyyovich Koltunovich will not speak on this issue, so we can move on to making a decision. If you would like to invite the people's deputies to the hall, we will move on to a decision on this issue. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Labour Law Code (project 8244) in accordance with article 116 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[15:25:18]] For 240 Decision taken. The law was adopted on the basis of a redrafting of regulations. Dear colleagues, we have no further discussion, 6319. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Self-Organization of Populations on improving the organization, activity and termination of the self-organization of the population. We agreed that this was the first reading, so I immediately propose to adopt a proposal to amend the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Self-Organization of the Population, on improving the organization, activity and termination of the Self-Organization Authority (registration No. 6319). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:26:21]] For 258. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next bill 9011, 9011-1, 9011-2, 9011-d. I'm proposing to include all these bills in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:26:51]] For 251 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider these issues in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:27:13]] For 210 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we not discuss this, Arthur? Well, then, write it down: two in, two in, two in. Sign up: two for, two for, two for, two for, one for, one for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two Please give the floor to the national MP Greenchuk Oksani Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u186	Please pass on the word to Andrey the Mayor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u187	Please, Andrew County.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. The 9011-d bill, for which we will now vote with you, has been the result of a fundamental work carried out by an expert group over the last five months. The previous result of this work was another bill entitled: on the restoration of energy security and the green transformation of Ukraine's energy system -- which was introduced by me and several colleagues from the Energy Committee, as well as by colleagues from the interfractional MPs -- "United for Recovery" -- and registered under number 9213. Actually, the bill that I'm about to present to you is 9011-d, which we're going to vote on, is 95 percent of what we did in Bill 9213. In his direct touch with the work on the amended bill, he decided to tell you about its basic positions. First of all, the amended bill finally introduces a mechanism for guaranteeing the origin of electricity from renewable energy sources. The guarantees of origin are one of the elements that will allow the greenness of the production of goods to be confirmed and allow the Ukrainian industry to increase the income from exports of products to countries of the European Union. The bill also stimulates the broad involvement of medium and small businesses in improving Ukraine's energy security. We have removed barriers to entry into the energy market for different consumer categories: domestic, small, non-profit, and non-profit consumers. The bill introduces a self-production mechanism that allows the installation of a small power plant to secure its own consumption rather than the electricity consumed to sell to the supplier at market price. In doing so, the consumer should not obtain a license, become a market participant, or make any additional payments. Colleagues, the law is progressive and, I'm not afraid to say it, even in some ways, it's revolutionary. Please support and join the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u189	Thank you. Please, Inna Romanovna Sosun, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u190	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. I'm probably going to continue with what a fellow committee member, Andry Joupanin, has just said, really confirm that the bill has become the result of long-term committee work with the Ministry, along with the market. Modelling has been developed, how we can best prepare for the coming winter and, in principle, lay the foundations for the development of Ukrainian energy for the future. We realize that now we need to solve these two problems at the same time, and in fact this bill is taking an important step in trying to solve this problem. This bill is taking a step to build a decentralized generation in Ukraine. If you go abroad, if you go to Poland – and we all now usually go abroad, we travel across Poland – we see how many solar panels are on the houses. In order for this to happen, it will not happen in itself, and it requires an adequate state policy of regulation and support mechanisms. It's actually a bill that makes such instruments. Equally important for business is the creation of guarantees of the origin of electricity, the creation of the ability to sell Ukrainian electricity as green in European markets. And this is of course very important, especially in the context of future taxation within European SWAM, which will not be easy for the Ukrainian market, for the Ukrainian market to adapt to this. But what's important is that this bill also allows us not only to lay the right foundations for the future, but also to talk about the fact that for the next winter at least this bill will allow Ukrainian citizens, first of all households, first of all, people living in separate houses, to prepare for the winter and not to experience so much for the possible impact of Russians on Ukrainian energy, which we understand are still a reality. So let's support and then we'll work together on the second reading to improve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u191	Thank you. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, "European Solidarity" faction. Would you pass the word, Arthur Volodymyrovich? Please, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. We will also support this bill. Indeed, those earlier bills that were proposed were unified in this bill, and colleagues rightly said that in many ways he might indeed be revolutionary. But whenever we had a discussion on the committee, number one, it was a question to a national commission called NCREKP, which is probably going to have a very large control function. And including what is laid down in this bill. Tomorrow, hopefully, we'll have a committee of hearings, and the members of the National Commission will give a comprehensive answer to the questions that have been posed, which I think the members of our committee have prepared from every political power, to understand what will happen to the tariffs, what will happen to the 23-24 heating period, how will affect the heating period of our industrialists, that is, whether there will be an increase in electricity prices for them, and we'll continue to raise more and more in the meeting tomorrow with the NCPR. So I hope that after the adoption of this bill in the first reading, really, there won't be enough amendments to give this commission such non-proper functions and that they'll be such a monopolies in energy, in control of everyone, and including Green Energy producers, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u193	Please complete the discussion. Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich. I mean, he's handing over Kucherenka, right? Please, Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich. And then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u194	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. You know, I was so happy to listen to my young colleagues about the fundamentality, the revolutionaryness of this bill. You know, my young friends, there have been so many fundamental laws in this room in recent years, and what do we have in the gas market that doesn't exist and won't come soon? What do we have in the electricity market? Where is our independent regulator as a result of your fundamental laws? What about the banding, and what about our GTS operator, who's on the verge of bankruptcy? What I'm leading you to, my dear friends, there's really nothing wrong with this bill. That's the first one. The other one. As far as the heating season is concerned today, it is not practical. Get out of the way, please. The fact that he's not bad for 10 years for real, we're not going to argue with that. And, of course, "Fatherland" will support this bill in the first reading, and it will work with you. And I'd just like to draw your attention, my friends, to the time that the state and the energy sector have a huge debt of 18 billion dollars before the green generation in general for the entire time of its existence. So maybe this debt needs to be settled? Likewise, I would advise you, dear friends, to read carefully the conclusion of the scientific expertise that tells you that, my friends, this bill will not go until there is a tariff for a full population, you know. Otherwise, these projects will not be occupied. On the other hand, we all realize today that we cannot explicitly raise the tariff for the population. So, my friends, stop your euphoria there and work calmly, without fundamentalism and revolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, and we are moving on to making a decision. Dear friends, I propose to adopt a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on the restoration and green transformation of Ukraine's energy system (registration number 9011-d). I'll put this motion to a vote, take it as a basis. Please vote. [[15:37:51]] For 251 Decision taken. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of the 9011-d bill. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:38:17]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The lines are not shortened. Dear colleagues, we have yet another question to discuss today. But I say, we have one more question tomorrow without discussing it, let's say maybe we vote 8337. Let's not discuss this, Arthur. There's nothing to talk about. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] 8140, we'll stop at him because we talked to you. Dear colleagues, I'll bet you 6164. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences concerning the violation of city electric transport regulations. I propose to adopt Bill 6164 as the basis. Please vote. [[15:39:19]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer, then it's 0188. This is a draft of the Law on Ratification of the Letter of Amendment No. 4 to the Financial Agreement (The Draft Construction of a High-voltage Airline 750 sq.k.a. Ravenska AES - Kyivska) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. I propose to accept as a whole the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Law 0188. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:40:04]] For 268. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's do 8337 today. Arthur Volodymyrovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, well, with the discussion, friends. Then let's have one discussion, one of you will be, and one of you will vote. 8337, then, is the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union, the World Trade Organization, the governments and parliaments of foreign states on the establishment of sanctions for the import of Russian and Belarusian wood and its products, Russian fish and seafood, the ban on the export of equipment and its components, and the inadmissibility of activities in the territory of the Russian Federation of systems for international environmental certification. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please, I beg you to vote. [[15:41:04]] For 229 Decision taken. Please, who's it going to be? Goncharenko. One performance, then we vote and we take a break today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u196	Alexei Honcharenko "European Solidarity". A very right decision, you have to turn around, you have to limit all of this production in the world, exported by the aggressor country of the Russian Federation and occupied by Belarus, the puppet Lukashenko. It is also the right decision to make about Belarusian wood. But why do we tolerate Belarusian wood in the form of Lukashenko, who continues to sit and call himself President of Belarus? We break up decisions, we turn to the world, but we don't break diplomatic relations with Belarusian wood in the form of Alexander Lukashenko. It's urgent. I call on everyone. In the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is a six-month draft ruling of the Supreme Council, prepared by the Interfractional Union for Democratic Belarus, which includes almost all factions, all of the Ukrainian factions that are in this Parliament. Let's make decisions, break up deals, call off ambassadors forever while Lukashenko sits there, seek to exclude Belarus from all international organizations and institutions. How much can we tolerate this evil? How much can we pretend that this is less decent? A country occupied by Russian forces. Belarus, which is used as a platform for the attack on Ukraine. The Belarus used to bomb Ukraine. And we continue to make the right decisions in the Supreme Council, but we don't withdraw from there, we don't break diplomatic relations, and we have a theoretical ambassador. We don't have an ambassador for India, for China, for Brazil, and for Lukashenko, we have one. That's absurd. And pay back to the military!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u197	My fellow Members, I propose to adopt, in general, a draft decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union, the World Trade Organization, the governments and parliaments of foreign states to impose sanctions on imports of Russian and Belarusian wood and products thereof, Russian fish and marine products, the prohibition on export of equipment and its components, and the inadmissibility of activities in the territory of the Russian Federation of systems of international environmental certification (registration number of regulation 8337). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:44:05]] For 268. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one second. If no one is going to make an amendment, I looked, there's no right there, a very important bill is the next 8140, it's about the term of our military, let's now vote and finish today. I propose the adoption of a draft Law amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Disciplinary Statute (registration number 8140) on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:44:57]] For 265 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. And Alexander Sergiyovich is an ad, and then we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u198	New interfractional MPs have been created. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I'm reporting on the creation of an interfractional MP compound called Interaction. The heads of this union are elected national deputies: Labu Mikhaila Mikhailovich, Pivovarova Evgen Pavlovich. Also created is the interfractional partnership of the “Resurrection and Development of the Forests of Ukraine. ” The National Deputy of Ukraine, Matusevich Aleksandra Borisovich, was elected head of this association. We also report that the National Deputies of Knieżicke and Nikorac of the European Solidarity faction did not have a card under Law 9101. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-05-02-m0.u199	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the day-to-day agenda has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation. I remind you not to spread information about its beginning. We continue to work to win. And the glory of Ukraine!
