ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the ruling we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today we continue our plenary session. I note that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the opening of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Honorable Ukrainian national deputies, it is the 18th month of the unbreakable struggle of the Ukrainian people against the full-scale armed aggression of the Russian Federation. On August 9, Russian troops attacked Zaporozhye’s residential area, resulting in the death of three people, nine injured, the destruction of the temple, and commercial buildings. Despite the constant terrorist missile attacks of the Russian army, our soldiers bravely repel enemy attacks every day, devastate military forces, technology, and the personality of the racists, and gradually free their native Ukrainian land from the invaders. We express our deep appreciation for our loyalty to the military oath, our dedication, and our courage in the field of warfare. Thank you to all who are now working victoriously in the back and approaching our victory. At the same time, I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the defenders and protectors who put their lives in Ukraine, all victims of the aggression of the Russian terrorist state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. I'm asking you to sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies. Vladislav Mikolaiovich Polak, "Trust". Hello. [[Applause]] And Vadim Mikhailovich Stolar, "Delivery of Ukraine." Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes to the daytime affairs of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. So I'm asking representatives of the MP factions and groups to sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u2	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna, faction of "The Fatherland". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u3	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland faction. Dear friends, we have looked closely at the order of the day at the faction today. You know, you don't stop wondering how this order of things works out. Here's all: and the gaming business during the war, which is just about to be raised to such a level that he will no longer pay taxes at all, here's the fight by the tobacco industry to increase income from his own country, there's also a waste of our strategic property objects -- all you want. This is exactly what is not in this order of affairs – and if only a drop of concern for those who give their lives for Ukraine today. Our team has traveled hundreds, hundreds, and hundreds of hospitals, medical facilities, where our wounded are being treated. From this rostrum, I repeat for the tenth time that there can be no medical expenses in the warring country through the NHRI for civilians, the same as for wounded military personnel. Do you have a drop of conscience in this room? We have introduced Bill 9550, which provides that expenses for assistance, medical care, our wounded military must be implemented with code "Y" with a coefficient of 3 in relation to civilian expenditure. Because this is the only approach that will allow our wounded today to do everything the state can in medical institutions. Our doctors, the medics, the holy people, they're trying to make the most of these copies that this country has put out for the treatment of the wounded, to make the maximum possible for our heroes and heroes. But this Hall of the Supreme Council deals exclusively with the dereban, exclusively with national interests. And Bill 9550, which allows for the creation of medical expenses such as are necessary, is not even placed on the committee or in the Supreme Council in order of the day. We ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to immediately assign a mandate beyond the Rules, without delay to consider this bill immediately, 9550, on a committee of medical professionals and to put it to a vote immediately. Serve those who defend you today, not engage in corruption in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u4	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, a group called Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, Ukraine is part of Europe, flesh from the flesh, unlike our northern neighbour, who can be said by Mikola Wave: "Get away from Moscow's scratch!".. This Parliament is said to be a record, a record in law, although of course not always the number beats the quality, and here we can argue. The only thing you don't argue with is that this Parliament's mission is to bring our legislation closer to European, to opening the road, to entering the European Union. And we're seeing this synchronization of the legislation that we're doing with you every day in this room. We hope that this synchronization will help us to get closer to membership in the European Union. We are talking about the recently adopted Antimonopoly Committee Act, the restoration of the declaration and the attachment to the administrative responsibility for the declaration that we will be voting today, the declaration of political parties that we will be voting on in the second reading, the bill on lobbyism that awaits us in the near future, and the national communities. This is the basic list of bills that we hope will allow. The adoption of which will allow the European Commission to start a substantive dialogue in the autumn on the procedure for Ukraine's accession to the European Union. You know, I was surprised by one position of one of the European Union's principals, one of the countries I read in the Corrier Della Sera newspaper, regarding the situation in Ukraine and Europe. I quote: "We live in an age when, if anything interferes with everyday routine, it makes us forget values like freedom and democracy. And that attitude is important. Ironically, it's one of those elements that could speed up the peace process." So by forgetting freedom and democracy, by giving up some of its territories because part of the European community, Europeans live in a routine -- these are the values that we can't agree with. Because it's for us. We know what our warriors are fighting for and what the entire Ukrainian nation is fighting for. And we hope that this understanding is, has been and will remain in the entire European community. An important decision of the Supreme Council was adopted yesterday, condemning the upcoming so - called elections in the occupied territory. And I think we need to keep on beating and talking about delegitimization if these so-called elections are to be held in occupied territory, the delegimization of the entire electoral system, all the electoral bodies, the representative bodies in the Russian Federation, and the outcome is that these elections will be illegal and the entire Russian Federation will be illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u6	Please give the floor to National Deputy Kostenek Roman Vasilovich, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u7	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, I'd like to say one thing that we need to understand and we all get to it, despite the many statements now in the media, there's military and political leadership there, even though our defence forces are now moving in small steps, but moving forward, we need to understand that this war is not going to end soon. We need to understand that right now Parliament is going to play a key role in this country's economy and help us specifically help the army that is going to fight, in my view, not another year with the Russian aggressor, because exclusively military way, we see what resources the Russian Federation has, and we have to ensure that. We see our defenses fighting, we see the Security Service fighting separately, the General Intelligence Directorate, the Armed Forces, taking full action. So now we have to understand what we need from our Parliament. First of all, understanding that war is going to be a long time, we have to understand the concept of what to do not to lose it. That's the first thing. Don't lose what? The first is territory and the main thing is what we're fighting for is democracy. I see that we are gradually being forced here in Parliament to lose our subjectivity, and every day, by adopting laws to help the army, we need to maintain this subjectivity, because the victory for Ukraine will first come out of this war by the winners of the subject parliament, with an institution that will be able to build the country further. That's the main thing. Because what I am seeing is a great discreditation of the Parliament and the taking away of its subjects. This is very much seen in the media, and it is seen very much even among the fighters on the battlefield. Let's remember what they said about Parliament taking wages, Parliament not being able to pay them back. So once again, by my actions, I appeal to every MP, we have to help the fighters, and each one of us has to work to make Parliament an institution that leads the country to victory, not a body that is manipulated and forced to make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u8	The word is Boyko. I mean, there's gonna be a transmission, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u9	People's MP Skork, MP for Life and Peace. Your Honor is presiding! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The main task of the deputy corps, like the entire state of Ukraine, is our victory, its approach, our return to Ukraine of peace and territorial integrity. In addition, the social protection of our citizens and the support of our economy are important to us. In this brief speech, I would like to stop at a few socio-economic issues of our state. First of all, it's a question that's going on today with the social payments situation in our country. If, at the beginning of the war, debts for municipal payments amounted to a little over 81 billion, they amounted to 140 billion by April of this year. Given the increase in the price of electricity to 2 G's of 64 K's, we have to understand that these debts are going to go up. And it would be very useful to have a dialogue with the government about how much subsidies we have, how much the situation is with how they are being financed and so on. The second question. We said from our group that we would support Bill 9565 with the interim commission of inquiry regarding the embezzlement of funds by local budgets not on schedule in wartime. But we need to understand that there are some serious problems in local budgets with basic finance through Treasury, with the financing of repairs for educational establishments, and health facilities. And I've already turned to the government from this rostrum about what we need to change the order that the Cabinet, the Treasury, approves, and allowing local budgets to pay off on these important issues in order to support and support health institutions and education institutions, especially in the world of what begins September 1st, begins a new school year. And lastly, the third question that was going to be raised is the issue of Russia’s broken grain deal. This has brought us a lot of problems in the state, in the socio-economic and other countries. But there are problems that seem to be very regional; they are road problems. The route "Odessa-Rani" to this day, from the number of trucks that are there today, it is in a very emergency and dangerous state, and there must be appropriate steps on the part of Kabmin to sort out the traffic along this route, because today it is a lotteries for our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u10	Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u11	Please pass the word to my colleague Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u12	Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u13	Honourable Ukrainians, two months ago, the Ukrainian Parliament passed the Act on Increase in Payments to Certain categories of military personnel. And what a shock that the government didn't find time for two months to develop legal acts. And only after the daily pressure of European Solidarity, my personal Alexia Hotcharenko, Peter Poshenko, all of our team have finally developed regulations to pay to the students, to the experts, to the instructors. I'm sorry, it's insane, and that government has to resign. It's also a shock that Parliament adopted some very important laws two weeks ago to simplify customs for the introduction of anti-drunk guns, the heat visions that everyone on the front of today is yelling at what a deficit it is. And so far, the President has not signed these laws. What a shock that the President still hasn't signed the Law on the Creation of the Bull's Tomb! Sorry, it's been a few months since that vote. And we don't understand why such sensitive and important laws are being lost somewhere in the President's Office. Just as the military screams about drones, about the Russian army today, these invaders are much better than our military, drone, and modern electronic warfare systems. Why do we not spend all the budget needed to buy modern weapons for our Armed Forces? Because in this room every day, in fact, you are voting on disgusting, corrupt, lobbying laws, and you coincide with them. And now the hall is empty. That can't be right. It cannot be that in Ukraine today a million of our heroes and heroes have been combated, and only 30,000 people have received the right status. And the Department of Veterans exists, and there is no veteran politics. Our political power requires the adoption in August of a bill on automatic UBB status when a person carries out combat tasks and combat orders. Obviously, it is then at war. Why is all this happening? Since there is no freedom of speech in Ukraine, the marathon has long been a victory for all. Representatives of the President’s Office, who were already drinking coffee in Crimea in May, are going to drink coffee somewhere in August in Crimea, not knowing what kind of blood is stored and released every meter of Ukrainian land. We don't have a committee for freedom of speech. I'm sorry, we have a forbidden party that has been banned for years in Ukraine for promoting Russian narratives, for saying that Ukraine attacked Ukraine, that Kiev bombed Donbass. And the representative of this party, who's been doing this for years on television, is now headed by the Committee on Freedom of Speech, just because they're your political partners. Dear Ukrainians, there was no vote in Parliament, where the "servants" would have 226. They do.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u14	Please, Mazurashu Georgiy Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u15	I'd like to give the floor to a colleague of the "Serve of the People" faction, Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u16	Please, the Venislav Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, distinguished citizens, Ukrainians! The Russian Federation, two weeks from now, will be a year and a half from now, leading a terrorist war against Ukrainian statehood, against the Ukrainian people, and against the entire civilized world, which, thanks to the efforts of the personal President of Greens, our political power, and by a large account of the entire parliament, has grouped around Ukraine and demonstrated who is who in this world. At the same time, Russia does not abandon its attempts to destroy our sovereignty and our territorial integrity. The latest terrorist attacks that Russia has carried out in Ukraine, including in the last few days, indicate that we need to consolidate again and ask our partners to provide us with even more weapons systems that protect the peaceful populations that protect our peaceful settlements, cities, villages, villages from the terrorist attacks of the Russian Federation. Thanks to President Zelensky's personal efforts, we have a very good level of support for the international and today even those countries that took, say, a neutral pro-Russian position at the beginning of the war, change their attitude towards Russia as well, and change their attitude towards Ukraine. And the summit in Saudi Arabia is a very powerful confirmation, because the change in even the position of China and the position of those Arab countries that were recently sympathizers with Russia is a very powerful signal for the entire modern civilised world. The Ukrainian Parliament, as a representative body, as a body representing the interests of all the Ukrainian people, should make even more efforts to ensure that each of our military, every citizen feels protected and that the military, who defend our sovereignty and territorial integrity on the front line, feel the attention of both the Ukrainian national deputies and the executive branch of power. Our political power is constantly initiating the development, adoption of legislation aimed at enhancing the social protection of military personnel, enhancing the ability of the security and defence sectors as a whole, to facilitate the adoption of those new, innovative developments that, through the consolidation of the efforts of the entire Ukrainian people, we now have and will help us to maintain our sovereignty and our territorial integrity. But in order for these efforts to be as effective as possible, we need to demonstrate unity in both the legislature and the unity of power in general. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u18	Heroic glory! Please, Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u19	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! Of course, with faith in God and in the people of this tenth year of war, this eighteenth month of full - scale invasion is clear that the situation among Ukrainians and the demand for justice are extremely acute. And we are grateful to those Ukrainians who are protecting our Ukrainian people, and we are grateful to those Ukrainians who are helping the defenders to fight on different fronts. And we, everyone, have to do something to help our Ukrainian Armed Forces. And in fact, since there is some kind of dissension of the main legislative authority in this country - the Parliament - it should be stressed that after a difficult discussion, after a great social tightening of payments to those who risk the most expensive - life when Parliament adopted a law two months ago that allows for increased payments to both military and civil protection officials, especially those who only teach military affairs, it is for students, and for professionals, and for those who teach it is for military instructors. In fact, just now, two months later, the executive branch of power was able to issue legal acts. Well, thank you for at least now they've done it. We believe that soon these people, who deserve much higher wages, will receive at least these first steps to meet them and steps to justice. It will be just and just when Parliament will also consider the possibility of anyone who is a party to the fighting, so that they can buy and use the car abroad at zero decomposition. It will also be a good step, a just step to meet those of us in this room and most of the Ukrainians who today, thanks to God's care, defend our Ukraine, who soon – we believe! – a victory for all of us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u20	Heroic glory! Please, Shevchenko from the Rebirth Group. Dear colleagues, we'll be right there. Julia Volodymyr and we'll move on to the agenda. Please, Chewchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u21	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to support our colleague Roman Kostenko, who raised such a subject painfully. It is related to the fact that Parliament is practically discredited, undervalued, and that deputies, in principle, have become volunteers. Maybe it's time to get out of here if we're all volunteers. Where am I going? We have a function, except that adoption of laws is very important, it's given to us by the Constitution -- it's parliamentary control. I have an offer. Ruslan Alexiyovich, let's return Government Day to Parliament. Let's make sure the ministers come here one at a time. These are all the urgent questions that come from the people, from the military, they go to the government, and we are to blame to the MPs. And because we don't invite them here, we don't ask them these questions that concern everyone. Do you like the way people treat you on the street? Are you feeling yourself? And that's because we keep quiet. And this whole corruption, and the fact that the MEPs are doing the job, is that the political process has gone somewhere from us. The government is currently in manual mode. No one can know what's going on there or how. Yesterday, they renewed 30 grand a year and a half for our military. Hallelujah, everyone screamed, we won, we hit. But they just did it for themselves because they see what it takes, because they're good government officials, and you're a deputy and I'm with you on this knee, I'm not going to say the non-parliamentary word, I understand what it is. Thank you for asking. And once again, Roman Kostenko spoke, I support him personally. It is time for Parliament to become a parliament, not a toilet for a downpour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u22	Please, Olena Kostvena, the group is non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u23	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to take this opportunity to come forward and draw your attention traditionally to the issue of protection -- the opposition of deportation of children who have been deported, kidnapped, forced into the territory of the Russian Federation. The aggressor country has announced that since the beginning of the full-scale invasion, 700,000 of our children have been taken to their territory, part with their parents, part of the orphans. The Red Cross, whose headmaster in Belarus admitted to stealing, is actually stealing our children from Ukraine. The leadership of the Belarusian Red Cross told the cameras that his organization was exporting hundreds of Ukrainian children from occupied areas. The International Committee of the Red Cross has in no way responded to a statement that directly contradicts the ideas and functions of the organization. The International Federation of the Red Cross, to which this Belarusian organization belongs, has declared the initiation of an investigation into virtue. Unfortunately, there are no results of this investigation so far. Meanwhile, according to journalists in Belarus, there are over 2,000 illegal Ukrainian children. The Russian Federation's list of deported children does not even require the rest of the international organizations. We're operating on more than 19.5,000 Ukrainian children who are forced out. Although I want to tell you that unfortunately, we have not been able to deliver any children from our previous session. Although the White House has already joined the protection of Ukrainian children. The U.S. spokesman stated that the United States demands that Russia stop deportation practices and bring all the kidnapped children home. The international press, the BBC investigation, British journalist Isabel Young on her television channel Vice did an incredible research when she showed the whole chain, how our children are being transported, how difficult it is for parents to find their children, and how difficult it is for them to return home. The subject of deported Ukrainian children was also discussed at the UN’s Radbez. The German Foreign Minister, Annalena Berbok, told the story of Ukrainian children from Kupyansk. It is our duty to keep on talking about it, but it is also within the framework of the Coordinating Council for the Protection of Children to join in and adopt the law that the Committee of Social Policy is developing accordingly, 9042-1. I think the task force is going to work. We must soon, before the next meeting, accept appropriate changes so that we have a real mechanism to protect Ukrainian children who are suffering from war, including forced export and deportation. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u24	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, a letter came from two factions about a break with a replacement for the performance. I invite you to speak to Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u25	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I think that every Ukrainian, both in Ukraine and outside Ukraine, is in unpaid debt to those who defend us on the front, to those who today put their lives, health, their happiness, the happiness of their families, so that all of you and all Ukrainians can be happy. I have one question. Why is everything related to treatment, to the rehabilitation of our military, now done in a final manner? I've just talked about the fact that funding for treatment is in an unacceptable state. But what I want to say now is that the rehabilitation of our severely injured heroes and heroes is not provided with financial resources. I've been to Lviv recently, and it's been such a joy to visit a real rehabilitation center with the last word called "The Unbreakable." This is Andrew Sadowy, his associates, including former MP Oleg Berezuk, from all over the world, who collected copies and made the rehabilitation center of the world’s highest standards. But he's only one in Ukraine. And it's a shame today for the government, for the parliament, for everyone who's in power today. And that's why I would like the Ukrainian MPs to go to this rehabilitation centre once and for once, to think about not having to throw 2 billion into a single marathon, where there's propaganda, manipulation, censorship, but to send these 2 billion to build rehabilitation centers all over the country like in Lviv, and not just to have foreign states invest their soul and money in it, but to invest in the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian authorities and the people of Ukraine. And that's why I want to, first thing I want to do right now. Create a special delegation of the Parliamentary and visit this centre of the Unbreakables. The other one. Immediately submit a bill on the allocation of sufficient financial resources to resupply and build rehabilitation centres throughout Ukraine. And I'm addressing all the factions, we're taking the initiative to create a temporary investigative commission to investigate the lack of funding, and we're asking your representatives to do everything to our heroes and heroes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussions on matters of the order of the day. Let's move on. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable members of the People’s Republic of Ukraine are invited to make a signal vote prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. I'll remind you that it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, please prepare, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:42:32]] For 229 Against 6, held – 2, not voted – 95. It's all the same. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Once again, I appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the course of the plenary session, which was decided in Parliament sooner than an hour after the end of our work. Dear National Deputies, a list of issues that were previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, you have been given, and we are moving on to its consideration. Dear colleagues, you will have before you the draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the leaders and parliaments of foreign states to restrict entry into their territory to Russian and Belarusian athletes and sports delegations. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the session. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:43:45]] For 279 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[10:44:07]] For 241 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Youth and Sports Committee, Andri Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin, to speak. Yes, both from the committee, and from the authors, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u27	Good day, dear fellows, the honourable presiding officer! I'd like to introduce you to the draft decision as co-author, as well as the position of the Committee on Youth and Sports. A draft decision drawn up by the Ukrainian people's deputies to the Committee on Youth and Sports is very grateful to them. Its purpose is to prohibit the entry into the territory of foreign states of Russian and Belarusian athletes and sports delegations in order to prevent them from participating in international sports competitions. European games in Poland, which were held a month ago, have shown that the practice of not issuing visas to members of the enemy states is working. Therefore, this decision was designed precisely for the purpose of not allowing them on the experience of the European Games in Poland. The project proposes to approve the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the leaders and parliaments of foreign nations, proposing to ban entry into their territory of Russian and Belarusian athletes, sports delegations. The main thesis of the draft address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is that: firstly, in Russia and Belarus, sport is part of the public propaganda of war, most of their athletes are representatives of the power structures, and part of them are involved in the struggles against Ukraine; secondly, Ukrainian national MPs consider the proposals wrong and inappropriate the International Olympic Committee for the return of Russians and Belarusians to international competitions under neutral flag. The Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the presence of such persons in the territories of other nations threatens the stability and national security of other countries. The Supreme Council of Ukraine urges the leaders and parliaments of foreign nations not to allow racists and Belarusians, who practice antihuman propaganda in their territory, to be covered in sports. At its meeting on 26 June, the Committee reviewed the draft and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft decision on the basis of and in general and approve the above-mentioned references, taking into account technical and legal rights. Thank you for your support. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u28	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, please write down: two for, two for, against discussing this very important issue. Please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich, faction of the Political Party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u30	Please, Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u31	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, it's a very important decision that we have to make on the use of this Putin regime. You've seen wonderfully that all the dictatorial regimes in history: Hitler, Mussolini, all the Nazis, and now the racists, are very fond of using sports and athletes to promote their hateful ideology, and we see this another time. Russian athletes are not athletes, unfortunately some of them are killers at all, because they are coworkers of power structures, CSKA, Dynamo, others who are killing Ukrainians today. Russian sport is no sport, there is no church as a church in Russia, there is no sport as a sport in Russia, there is no culture as a culture, there is no culture in Russia, there are all instruments of empire, there are tools for promoting their interests, there are instruments of hybrid war. First they have Pushkin, then they have rockets. First they have Tchaikovsky, unfortunately, then they have rockets. First they have Isinbay's athletes, and then they're rockets. And we need to keep that in mind. So that's the right thing to do, and it's very important that we're talking, because I see that the IOC doesn't have the strength to make the right decision, but it wants to allow under the so-called neutral flag of so-called athletes. And these "good Russians," the "good Russians" are the ones that storm the Bránsk region and destroy the Travellers and the Racists. That's good Russian. There are no other good Russians. So, friends, we're going to close the French border for these athletes, so if they come, they just kiss the castle and go away. Egalite, Fraternite, Liberte is not just a word, it's a French slogan. We ask for this to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u32	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Road Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u33	Please pass the word to the Olympic champion Jean Belenjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u34	Please, Jean-Vensanovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u35	Thank you, colleagues. Today I would like to call upon you to support this important really important decision, because the decision on the admission or non-admission of Russian athletes who represent, more specifically, a country of terrorists is not yet made by the International Olympic Committee. And we have all the important things we need to do to make sure that they are not allowed to compete. Because the International Olympic Committee is discrediting itself with this policy. And I want to encourage you because, as the European Games have shown, it is still an active weight that has allowed not to be present for the representatives of Russia and Belarus at these competitions. So if we all vote in friendly terms right now, I'm sure it will add power to the Ukrainian position inside the International Olympic Committee, inside that coalition that formed around our country. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you for the Ukrainian sport! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u36	Heroic glory! The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Abdulina Alexander Rafkatovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". Ivanovich Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u37	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like to thank the lead committee and author Andrija Anatoliovich Kožemjakina for preparing this address. It is absolutely right that countries that are able to regulate entry-exit issues in their territory simply do not allow Russian and Belarusian athletes to enter their territory. This is a document that we, as Parliament, are obliged to adopt today, and I think it will be unanimous. But I'd like to say another thing. Russian and Belarusian athletes, who very often like to talk about sports outside politics, sports outside the war, are actually a tool in Putin's hands to cover up crimes, wars, including those committed by Putin, to show inside pseudo-patriotism for the Russian struggling people. They are all staff members of the FSB, the force structures, the Ministry of Defence, and part of them are involved in the armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. What should we do? I'll give you an example. Not only should the Russians and the Belarusians not be allowed to compete internationally, but we should do what the International Federation of Biotlon did and I had the honour of being the president of the Federation of Biotlon to represent Ukraine at the convention, when not only did they decide not to allow Russian and Belarusian athletes to participate in international biotlon startups, but they suspended the membership of the Russian and Belarusian federations in the International Federation of Biotlon. So they don't even have a right. And this remains the only international federation among all the international federations that has made this decision. This is how it needs to be done so that they can not even come to international conferences and forums and influence decisions about allowing their athletes to compete.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u38	Thank you, Your Honor. All of them speaking, who wanted to? Then let us move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, please prepare. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the leaders and parliaments of foreign states on the restriction of entry into their territory by Russian and Belarusian athletes and sports delegations (registration number of the draft Decree 9409). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[10:54:07]] For 306 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, next question. This is 9554: the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments and governments of the democratic states of the world, the International Olympic Committee, the international sports federations on the condemnation of illegal disqualification by the International Federation of the fencing of the Ukrainian feat, the Olympic champion, the six-time World Championship, and the eight-time European champion Olga Harlan. I'm proposing to include this draft decision in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:54:56]] For 303 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss whether we can. [[B in m in s a l in]] Arthur Volodymyrovich, let's vote! Is there any objection to Heratchenko speaking for two minutes and voting? There will be no other factions. Well, then let's vote for the shortened procedure. Then let's do it, if so. Well, no, it's not. I'll bet you I'll consider this with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:55:37]] For 255 Decision taken. Then I invite the head of the Youth and Sports Committee, Andrija Anatoliyovich Kozemyakina. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, Mr President, I would like to present the draft ruling as co-author, as well as to express the Committee's position on this. The draft decision was developed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on Youth and Sport, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Stefanchuk. The draft decree proposes to approve the appeal of the Supreme Council to the parliaments and governments of the democratic powers of the world, the International Olympic Committee, the international sports federations on the condemnation of illegal disqualification by the International Federation of the fencing of the Ukrainian feat, the Olympic champion, the six-time World Championship, and the eight-time European champion Olga Harlan. The draft refers, in particular, to the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine fully supports its worthy act, Olga Harlan, and strongly condemns the infamous decision of the International Federation of Feuding for Disqualification of Ukrainian Sportswoman and calls on the International Federation of fencing to do the following. First, completely cancel Olga Harlan's disqualification and officially apologize to her. Second, to hold all those involved in the decision - making process accountable. Third, it is lifelike to disqualify a Russian athlete for a provocative act contrary to the Olympic spirit. The main amendment introduced during the discussion is as follows. Olga Harlan tried to show the entire international sports community that participation in international sporting activities by the terrorist country, an aggressor country led by an international criminal named Putin, whose arrest warrant issued by an international court in The Hague, whose crimes are supported by the vast majority of Russian citizens, is immoral and unacceptable. Colleagues, let the athletes of Russia and Belarus burn in hell. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two for, two for, against those factions or groups that want to discuss. Please sign up. Vitrowicz Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u41	Please give Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u42	Heratchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u43	Dear Ukrainians, the courageous Olga Harlan has done her worthy work to support Ukraine more than all marathons, all the ministries of culture and ministries of youth and sport combined. And, excuse me, we have beautiful athletes, but we don't have a normal Ministry of Youth and Sports. "European Solidarity" has issued a decree on the dismissal of a minister who illegally also combines the ministerial office with the post of Head of the National Olympic Committee. Unfortunately, the profile committee did not support this decision, although sooner or later you will be forced to disgrace yourself, as did the Minister of Culture, to remove this minister, who does nothing in his position to protect Ukrainian sports, from his position. So, by the way, as it happened with Bhakanov's head. By the way, where's Bakanov? They say Bakanov has now become a lawyer in Poltava. Bakanov, who, by the way, had discovered these criminal cases behind Shufrich’s pastimes that the fifth President of Poshenko had begun a counterattack after the liberation of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Dear Mr. Prashenko, perhaps you can take Bakan's lawyer for yourself on this matter. Because the case is still ongoing, the case is still being investigated as to what we had a counterattack. And this is your personnel policy when you recruit people without experience, just on the principle of their own loyalty, and then they break down really all the spheres they deal with. Mr. Gutzite has the same thing as the whole government has to resign because he doesn't do Ukrainian sports. And Mrs. Harlan, thank you and thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u44	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy to Black Dmitry Sergiyovich, faction of the political faction "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u45	Please pass the word to Mary Mezentsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u46	Please, Maria Sergiyevna Mezenceva.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u47	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, now I want to talk about achievements and positive. Listening to other colleagues makes it feel like "it's all gone." Well, it's not all gone. Friends, the only international organization in the world that acted in advance, in June, addressed all international organizations, parliamentary assemblies in the world, a resolution by PARJE, in order to encourage Belarusian and Russian athletes to avoid allowing the world arena of sports that has become a world arena in Russia, including the support of terrorism. Thus, on July 26, the International Olympic Committee decided not to invite Russian and Belarusian athletes to a 2024 competition in Paris. Indeed, Ola Harlan took an incredible step in the diplomatic struggle, in a sporting battle, she noted in her back that it was done for every soldier, man and woman, the defence forces that today defend Ukraine in the fields of battle. She protected Ukraine and our honor in sports fields. I'll remind you, my friends, at the beginning of a full-scale Russian aggression, the Unifecht international feat center in my hometown of Kharkiv was bombed by Russian missiles, and it was destroyed. In spite of this, Harkowi feats, spies, and players at various levels won gold medals. We want inspiration, health, and will do our utmost to keep the sport in Ukraine alive. We wish to inspire our athletes and welcome them to victory. Colleagues, we support. In Olga Harlan's face, such a disgraceful decision must be overturned. Thank God she can get in.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u49	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please give the floor to the distinguished National Deputy Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u50	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u51	Honorable National Deputys of Ukraine, Honorary Fellows, a month ago Olga Harlan was known to the world as an outstanding athlete, as the champion of the Olympic Games, the six-time champion of the world, the eight-time champion of Europe. And now the world has come to know Olga Harlan as a patriot of Ukraine. And today it brought positive results to Ukraine far more than, let's say, all the national MPs combined to advance the position of Ukraine. And we need the Supreme Council today, along with the Ukrainian Armed Forces, along with Olga Harlan, to contribute to Ukraine's next victory. Ladies and gentlemen, I like the position of the International Olympic Committee, which, despite the fact that the International Federation of Feasibility Disqualifications has been conducted by Olga Harlan, the International Olympic Committee has issued her a license to participate in the Olympic Games. So today we need to address all the governments of the countries, the parliaments of the countries, so that the whole world can condemn Olga Harlan's illegal disqualification. This will be the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this will be our contribution to the promotion of Ukrainian sport and the victory over Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u52	Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Ivanovich, please have a word with you. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u53	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Sometimes a minute’s silence is more eloquent than a thousand words. And the silence is worthy of Olga Harlan after the match she won from a so-called Russian athlete, her worthy behavior, when she refused to hand over the representative of the aggressor country, was more important than the many statements made from a variety of rostrums. And I remember, my dear colleagues, as in this Hall the next day after Olga Harlan's act, standing there applauding her for showing that the Ukrainians would not only give up, but the Ukrainians would not tolerate any representative of the aggressor country as long as Russia was waging this conquest war and had not been fully responsible for all the war crimes committed in Ukraine. Then there were events that Olga was obviously looking for -- her disqualification. But it did not stop her from showing her patriotism and dignity. And, of course, our task as the Ukrainian Parliament is to ensure that this illegal disqualification concerning Olga Harlan is removed. Yes, to this day they have abolished the post-game handshake rule, but still disqualification is two months in action regarding Olga Harlan. And I think it will be a matter of honor and dignity that our Olympic champion, Olga Harlan, will rightfully restore and in this way thank her for demonstrating Ukraine as an unbreakable state that does not seem and which will win, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Please be prepared by the National Deputies. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a proposal that takes into account the proposals of the committee and the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments and governments of the democratic states of the world, the International Olympic Committee, the international sports federations condemning illegal disqualification by the International Federation of the Featuring of the Ukrainian Federation, the Olympic Championships, the six-time World Championships, the eight-time European champion Olga Harlan (registration number 9554). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:07:52]] For the 320. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill, 6529, is the second reading. We're only going to have two minutes from the EC faction and two minutes from the Fatherland faction, and we're voting. A colleague will not make any adjustments. Danilo Alexandrovich, take your place. Oh, it won't, will it? Okay. Just two minutes from the Fatherland faction or are you? You will, won't you? Krulko Ivanovich. Ivan Ivanovich Krulko is two minutes and we vote. Please. One second, 6529 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian legislation on the application of special economic and other restrictive measures. Please, Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u55	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We have carefully considered this bill, which is prepared for second reading, and relates to amendments to the Tax Code and other laws regarding the application of special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions). In fact, before the second reading, this bill changed a little bit to the better, I would say. That's why the Fatherland faction decided to support him. But at the same time, I would like to turn to the next one. The issue of sanctions as a restrictive measure is one of the cornerstones of our national security, which is part of our defense against the Russian Federation as an invader and an invader. So all those companies that work in Ukraine that have a bearing on Russia, the Russian Federation, continue to do business in Russia, thereby supporting the occupying country and paying taxes there, they should definitely be sanctioned by Ukraine. They cannot do the same work in Ukraine that they are accustomed to. They have no right to make money here. They cannot carry out an activity that essentially undermines the foundations of Ukraine’s national security. In view of all these things, and even though the individual issues and amendments that were being submitted by Fatherland have not been taken into account, which mattered to this bill, but in general this bill needs to be supported and, indeed, done everything possible to ensure that the Russian business or the business that wants to work in Russia has no place in Ukraine and they have been sanctioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u56	Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other legislative acts on the application of special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) (project registration number 6529). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:11:17]] For 303 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, the next bill, we agreed, not to discuss it. But according to articles 50, 96 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, I received a letter from the leaders of the deputy factions and groups regarding the need for immediate consideration of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on improving the order of accountability of persons authorized to perform functions of the State or local self-government (registration number 9587), alternative bills 9587-1, 9587-2, 9587-d and non-registration of the ad hoc procedure. The need for urgent consideration of the matter was decided upon by the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups. Also at the Conciliation Board meeting, we agreed to consider the matter without discussion. So let's move on to making decisions. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft law (registration number 9587) amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences to improve the order of accountability of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government and alternative bills under registration number 9587-1, 9587-2, 9587-d. Please vote. [[11:12:49]] For 314 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to define an immediate bill (registration number 9587) amending the Code of Administrative Offences on improving the order of accountability of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government and its alternative bills under registration number 9587-1, 9587-2, 9587-d, shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills before the question begins and their consideration at the sitting today. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[11:13:37]] For 313 Decision taken. Third. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 9587-d) amending the Code of Administrative Offences and other laws of Ukraine to improve the order of accountability of persons authorized to perform functions of the State or local self-government and to further develop its provisions, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:14:20]] For 313 Decision taken. And last but not least, dear colleagues. I'm proposing to shorten the deadlines for amendments and proposals to the second reading on what has just been adopted on the basis of Bill 9587-d. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:14:51]] For 252 Decision taken. Now, one second, because. Yes, in my previous decision, 116, your inability to listen makes me doubt, so please listen carefully, yes, everything has been sounded. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill, this will be discussed. This is 9314, this is the draft Act amending article 615 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of the calculation of pretrial investigation periods under military conditions. And the alternatives are 9314-1, 9314-2, 9314-3 and 9314-d. I'm proposing to include these bills in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:15:51]] For 299 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:16:11]] For 251 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up: two in favour, two in favor, and we vote against. Please sign up: two in, two in, and then we vote. Please don't go too far. Please sign in. Please give the word to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to give the word to Alexei Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u58	Please, Sergey Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, we fully understand and support the idea of including the calculation of the terms of pre-trial investigation in criminal conduct in relation to war crimes, genocide crimes, where the person has not yet been reported as a suspect. This is the right step that reflects international experience and the realization that investigating such deep and serious crimes can take years and years after the end of the war in Ukraine. However, there is a somewhat controversial question about other crimes, which is suggested by the bill for a period of 30 months in relation to crimes reported after February 24, that is, after a full-scale invasion. That's why we're going to support this bill in the first reading, and for the second reading, we're going to continue the discussion, because in most areas of Ukraine, the law enforcement infrastructure, the court system, is fully operational on the relevance of such large terms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u60	Please give the floor to the national MP Greenchuk Oksani Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u61	Please pass on the word to Julia Yatzik.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u62	Please, Mrs. Julia Yatzik.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u63	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that in the spring of last year, we have already passed a number of drafts regarding the suspension of the pretrial investigation into criminal conduct, the information on which was submitted to the GDR by February 24. Today, more than one and a half million criminal cases are being handled by law enforcement agencies, including 60,000 of them in the conduct of the BSS and 30,000 in the conduct of the DBR. This is true of both war crimes and common crimes. To date, criminal investigations have been very complicated in criminal matters in connection with the conditions in which our country is located. Most of these crimes are committed in temporarily occupied areas, in active combat zones. There are some difficulties in interviewing witnesses who have left, considering the scene and so forth. So to date, according to the content of the amended bill, we propose not to calculate the time frame of pretrial investigation into war crimes, namely genocide, violations of the customs of war, the use of weapons of mass destruction, and so forth. We also suggest that the terms of the trial set out in articles 219 and 615 of the Criminal Procedural Code be increased to 30 months. This is caused, as I have pointed out, by objective reasons, and regardless of whether a judicial investigation is being carried out in an area belonging to a war zone or in another territory, the state of war that we have established throughout the territory of the State is a special legal regime, so it should extend to law enforcement authorities, to their activities. Please support this bill, which has been drafted by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u64	Please, I understand, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko instead of Dubela, the "Fatherland" faction. Then Aresonkov and then Mamka. And we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u65	Thank you, Mr. Head. The Fatherland faction will support this bill, but I just wanted to say a little bit about something else. Of course, we can always give law enforcement authorities the opportunity to continue with the lines, to make them bigger and so forth, and so forth. But we, as a parliament, must look at the reason for this problem and adopt laws that remove this cause. The previous speaker said that there are the same conditions throughout the territory and that there should be the same lines. Lines usually have to be the same, but conditions are different everywhere. That's the first one. Second, well, you definitely can't compare the conditions in Zaporozhye and, with all due respect, in Ternopil, Lviv or Zacarpathian. And they're different for law enforcement. And the exact state of war is not simply to continue with the time frame for criminal conduct. But once again, I emphasize, we understand the urgency of adopting this law. But at the same time, I'd like to ask another question. Colleagues, I think we should probably think about the introduction of military justice. And then military justice, which will specialize in war crimes, which will be specialized in special conduct, will probably be able to investigate these cases more effectively and qualitatively, take preventive action to prevent war crimes. Perhaps we should say that in time of war we need to rebuild the military tribunals. But it's a big political debate that we have to start in the Ukrainian Parliament, instead of doing this casually every once in a while, to change half the rules and to do some things that might raise some doubts about the legitimacy of the goal and the effectiveness of their use in the future. That's why we're in Fatherland for a systematic approach to law enforcement reform and creating conditions for effective investigation of criminal conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u66	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u67	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, indeed, the bill is extremely important, has sparked a very heated discussion. Both law enforcement officials and representatives of public organizations were involved. The agreement was not easy. However, it is absolutely right for those who say that, despite the fact that there is a state of war, despite certain personnel problems, investigations and the entire process of pretrial investigation should be conducted in a qualitative manner, i.e. no one removes the requirement for honest, transparent and fair conduct of investigations, rather than using the argument that we now have some characteristics that affect their work. On the other hand, we all agreed that important investigations on the subject of war: war crimes, crimes against humanity -- should be investigated without taking into account any lines. Because this evil must be punished after the end of the war, and all must be punished by those who have committed crimes in the territory of our nation. So we also supported our law enforcement agencies in this regard. Given everything, we, the trust MPs, support this bill, will vote. But I would like to make a separate statement in support of Mr. Vlasenko, who just mentioned military justice, the military prosecutor's office, the military courts. We had a long, quality, professional discussion on this subject. We're taking international experience into account, we need to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u68	Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich Mamka. And then we go to the vote. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill does not refer to the first paragraph, which colleagues say needs to be corrected between the first and the second readings, regarding the extension of the terms. The bill states: Whether or not to take the terms of military status into account in the years of pretrial investigation. I want to point out that we have already passed a law that all criminal conduct, where there is no suspicion, before the beginning of the war with the Russian Federation, is not included in the investigation. It's been 18 months, and the law enforcement authorities have actually initiated deadlines, disregarding the state of war. The committee met six times, held a committee, worked on an amended bill, and asked to continue for only a year. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this extremely important legislative project. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I'm going to lay the groundwork, then there was a proposal in general, but it wasn't accepted, so we're just going to cut the lines if we take the basis. I therefore propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of the calculation of pre-trial investigation periods in terms of the state of war (registration number 9314-d). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:26:43]] For 285 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to cut back on the proposal and amendments for the second reading of Bill 9314-d. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:27:16]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. The next bill, 6447, is a draft law on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Civil Code aimed at expanding the circle of civil rights objects. We agreed on this, three minutes of Vlasenko and we're voting, so please don't go too far. Sergei Volodymyrovich, three minutes. Ah, Ivan Romanovich Calaure, I ask you to take your place.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u71	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, the bill would seem to be very simple and very clear -- about expanding the circle of civil rights objects and adding digital issues. But unfortunately, this bill is a powerful example of not exactly the professional preparation of drafts in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So the law, unfortunately, is written in such a way that it leaves more questions than answers. And these questions will interfere with its application. So the "Fatherland" faction, without denying the idea of this bill, can't support it, because, unfortunately, it's again a point-blank solution to certain issues, which I don't know how relevant it is during the war. Then the "Paternity" faction will not support this bill in the second reading. We tried to fix it, but unfortunately the fate of our amendments was the same as we did, remember when you created an operator that operated a gas transport system? When we told you four years ago how to do this, you told us that we're all old, we don't understand anything, and you're all new politicians and you understand better than we do, and four years later you came back and took everything we told you four years ago, just losing four years. So once again, this bill is not that conceptual, it doesn't have that much impact on the legal relationship that exists in society, but any bill has to be formulated, I think, more professionally and more qualitatively. And I'd like to go back to the idea that I made in my previous speech. Colleagues, we need to go back to Parliament from patching holes to solving strategic issues of legislative regulation. In the area of competence of the Legal Policy Committee, these are also questions related to the normal functioning of the judicial system, such as changes to the Code of Procedure. I think we need to focus more on these issues in Parliament. And yet, in Fatherland, we expect a position of authority that relates to a structural, systemic proposal to make the system more accessible to citizens, more efficient, and to allow us to look at disputes in intelligent terms. That is why we will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u72	Thank you. A brief committee position and a vote. Dear colleagues, prepare, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I want to say that this bill is the first step towards developing a social relationship that relates to the development of digital technologies. Because the development of digital technologies and digital environments not only provides quick access to and exchange of information, but also provides an opportunity to create goods that are valued and capable of satisfying the interests of individuals and legal entities. This bill is the first brick to build the legal field, the circulation of digital content, virtual assets and other digital goods that can be created in the future. I'm asking my colleagues to support this bill in order to further develop civil science, and we've been able to further develop quality legislation that will ensure that the goods that are being created are traded and that they exist in the digital environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of the bill. Let us move on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, let's move on to making decisions. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Civil Code of Ukraine, aimed at extending the circle of civil rights objects, the registration number of Bill 6447. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:32:12]] For 271 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Next bill, 6576. We also agreed: 3 minutes – Vlasenko, 3 minutes – Klimpush-Cincadze, and we vote. Oh, it won't, will it? Okay. Then it's only three minutes, Vlasenko? No, you won't. Can we vote now? Ivanno Orestovno, three minutes and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u75	Thank you. Colleagues, indeed, we are now looking at a second reading of the Euro-Integration Bill, the purpose of which is to model legal regulations from civil law relations between the perpetrator and the consumer, providing digital content or digital services on the basis of a contract. And it's a good thing that we're bringing our legislation to European legislation in this part. First of all, I would like to thank the Main Committee for having returned to the draft bill after several iterations and taking into account the comments made by the Euro-Integration Committee. It is true that this is reflected in the general conclusion of this committee, not only in the words of the legal department. However, colleagues, I would like to point out that the bill has a large number of references to the Consumer Protection Act. But the colossion here is that the new Consumer Protection Act takes effect only a year or after the state of war is over, and this bill, which we are currently considering and voting for, should take effect six months after its publication. So there's obviously a problem with how well this law is going to work, which is certainly necessary. I call on all colleagues to support, in fact, the voting of these changes and at the same time to call on colleagues from the professional committees to interact with the Committee on Integration of Ukraine in the European Union in the same way effectively and effectively, so that we can be proud of our joint outcome when we take into account maximum positions and directives and regulations and really approach our legislation to European. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, thank you for your discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. I'd like to prepare, please. I propose to adopt the draft Law on Digital Content and Digital Services (Registration No. 6576) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:35:30.]] For 277 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Next, next, Bill 8257. This is also a second reading. We agreed on this: 3 minutes, Mikhail Mikhailovich's Cymbaluk, and we're voting. And I invite Sergei Vladimirovich Mandiya to the rostrum. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, 3 minutes and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u77	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in fact, Bill 8257-d is important in terms of delimiting the powers of the civil protection system of our state, the issue of granting humanitarian aid abroad to the state of Ukraine, and at the same time fully regulates the system of giving and supporting the forces and resources that come to our country to eliminate the consequences of extraordinary situations. My job was to give free food to civil protection licensees. But I would like to thank the head of the committee and report that we have a common opinion and this formula or this amendment will enter into another bill because this proposal does not fit into the body of this bill under number 8257. A few other important things that the law clearly divides into reserves: operational, noticeable, regional, local. So it's clear which local government authorities are responsible for what area of work. And this bill also sets out the methodology for defining the nomenclature and the quantity of material reserves that approve the IMF, which includes the State Department of Emergency Situations. Clearly, it is necessary to vote in favour in general in order for it to become the law as soon as possible. And I would also like to thank those courageous men and women who are serving in the State Service in emergency situations and who are the first to respond to those challenges and rocket attacks, the bombings that Russia is currently giving, unfortunately, in our territory. These are the first people to come to help and also feel these blows. They've got a low profile, emergency service. And our task as a legislative body is to do everything to ensure that they and their families are properly protected and that their work is appreciated. We vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u78	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Civil Protection Code on material and technical security in the area of civil protection (registration No. 8257). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:39:39]] For 276 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill (this is first reading) 9024 and alternative to it is 9024-1, 9024-d. It's a draft of the Oil and Petroleum Minimum Stocks Act. I'm proposing to include these bills in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:40:15.]] For 282 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider these bills in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:40:34]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-con? Can we vote now? Then two, two, against, sign up, respectable colleagues. Two speakers were enrolled. Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mikhajlovich, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u79	Please give the floor to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u80	Please, Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u81	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, a bill that aims at good things, but it has significant shortcomings, and it's going to need a substantial revision to the second reading, to which I want to draw your attention. First of all, so we don't create a situation where we monopolize the fuel market. In Ukraine, that's enough, a monopoly of diversity, and our job is to fight them, not create new ones. So it doesn't work out that when we demand a certain amount of fuel for those who sell directly, so that we don't put it in the hands of the big ones again. Because we're fighting oligarchs and we're talking about it, and we're actually adopting laws that are increasing the fate of large players in one market or another, and that's how we create oligarchs. The real fight against oligarchs is the fight against monopolies and corruption, this is the reality. Everything else is talk. That's what we need to understand. The other one. A major flaw. The bill suggests that during and six months after the war, it is allowed to store only supplies from Ukraine’s neighbours, who are members of the Energy Society. Friends, which means that in Hungary today, which trades Russian oil, Russian oil can be stored, and in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, which are friends of Ukraine that support Ukraine everywhere, at every turn, cannot. Obviously, this is going to be considered a non-communal step, clearly, it's going to have to be corrected if this bill is now adopted in the first reading, but it's very important. We should respect those true friends who stand next to Ukraine and stand to the end. So, achu-Lithuania, paldies-Latvia, Aita-Estonia, and we have to remember our real friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u83	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to a colleague at the Alexia Kucherenko faction. Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u84	Please, yes, pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u85	Thank you, Mr. Head. You gave me your word, I thank you very much. Dear colleagues! Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Thank you, Mr. Mikhail. Well, first of all, colleagues, I'm paying attention to you, there was an attack on the oil base on the Plain tonight. This is a striking sign that the enemy is going to make a clear impact and is going to do it on our energy complex and on our oil bases. In this regard, this bill is certainly progressive, progressive, and the faction of "The Fatherland" will support it in the first reading. But I'm paying attention to a whole bunch of very important things. First, unfortunately, a very unprofessional version of this bill was prepared by the government. I don't want to criticize the government for once, but please, colleagues. Work harder, 15 pages of comments is important. Secondly, it's positive that this insurance is actually being created without budgeting, but the question is, whose account is this going to be, and who's going to end up paying? Clearly, this is the cost of suppliers and this will be reflected in the price of fuel for the consumer. In this regard, of course, the extra burden and mission on the Antimonopoly Committee, which is to ensure full competition of transparency and non-conspiracy, and to prevent price increases for the consumer. These and other observations will be further developed for us, and we will work very hard to get this bill and the law to work potentially for society, not for oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, please, Gerus is one minute and we're voting. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Andrew Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, on October 17, 1973, a major oil crisis began, and so far the biggest oil crisis in history began when OPEC countries, as well as Syria and Egypt, refused to supply oil to those countries that were allies of Israel, that is, the United States and Western European countries that supported Israel during the October war. During this year, oil prices rose fourfold, and in many countries there was a physical deficit in the oil supply. Western countries then began to develop tools and mechanisms to protect themselves from such situations. And today, in the United States and in all countries of the European Union, there are mandatory minimum reserves of oil and petroleum products. So I ask that we also support this in the first reading, we work on the second, but we have adopted these standards that are now in force in the Western world and in the countries of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt the draft Oil and Petroleum Minimum Stocks Act as a basis. Ready to vote? Registration number 9024-d. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:47:44]] For 285 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill, my friends, is 8139. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to support activities related to the protection of human life at sea in accordance with Ukraine’s international treaties. We agreed that there would be one amendment to the potcherenko, one amendment to the Jujanina for confirmation. Alexiyyovich, will you bet on confirmation or on your own? Turn on the potter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u89	Yeah, I'll put my license on the count, number 15, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u90	Please. Turn around, please. Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear friends, an important law and an important amendment that will allow us to make changes that will make this law a little stronger. But I want to say now a very important thing about how the Supreme Council can perform its function, its work, when we here at the Supreme Council yesterday raised the question of what we need for the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out the decisions of Parliament and those laws that we are adopting, and now this law will be passed on the second reading to make it not a declaration, but the laws, and after we here at the Supreme Council, I spoke out of the rostrum and talked about what we have right now, so that the Cabinet will unlock the issue of payments to military personnel and adopt a sublegal act, then immediately in the evening there was an extraordinary meeting of the government at which it finally adopted what it was supposed to take long ago. So, my friends, let's keep trying to keep the executive in mind that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u92	Alexiyyovich, do you want to put to the vote or just a minute? You don't have to, okay. Thank you. And, please, then, a single amendment by Eugene Nina Petrovna. Give me a number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u93	Number three. Dear colleagues, this is the amendment to the Customs Code and the corresponding exemption from the payment of import duties for all goods associated with search and rescue work, for the purpose of implementing international treaties and for the sole purpose of conducting search and rescue operations. I have a question. Please tell me, why is such a small period of action of this standard only until January 1, 2024? Is this a once-in-a-lifetime operation, or is this some kind of special delivery? That's the first question. In fact, this law needs to be supported because the committee head may have managed to refrain from pushing into this draft law various things that are unnecessary there. But explain this important point: Why is it so limited for a few months that this standard will only work?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u94	Please take the position of the 3rd Amendment Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u95	Thank you. In fact, the term of this rule was discussed. Yes, indeed, it's about a single supply of this vessel. And it's really a compromise between the Ministry of Finance and between the Ministry of Infrastructure, which has agreed on exactly the same standard that will allow the ship to be brought in without paying taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, therefore, the 3rd amendment of the authorship of Getmancevo Danil Alexandrovich is counted by the committee. At the same time, Eugene puts this amendment on the stand. Dear colleagues, take your seats. I'll put 3 amendments on confirmation. Please vote. Stop! You're not betting, are you, Nina Petrovna? Oh, you've been told. Then you don't have to. Then let us move on to making a decision. You don't insist on Nina Petrovna again, do you? Okay. Thank you. Then let us move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code for the Protection of Human Life at Sea in accordance with Ukraine's international treaties (registration No. 8139-d). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[11:52:33]] For 296 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! The next bill is 8176. This is a draft law amending article 197 of the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Protection of Human Life at Sea in accordance with Ukraine’s international agreements. It's a second reading. Dear colleagues, there will be only six amendments for confirmation. So please don't split up, and after that we're voting for the bill as a whole. There was this agreement: 3 minutes -- Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko -- and she's making amendments to 7, 8, 11, and then Amendments 9, 12 and 26 is made by the faction "European Solidarity", 3 minutes -- and Nina Petrovna, as well as three amendments. Got it. Let's get started. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, three minutes and three corrections for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, this is already, frankly, crossing all bounds. I want you to read what we're talking about in the end of 8176. This is an amendment to the Ukrainian Tax Code to support activities related to the protection of human life at sea in accordance with international agreements. I want to ask, where did this beautiful humane law come from in the first place? What I want to ask you is that we have a gaming business today that is the main purpose and content of Parliament's work? I'm going to put and I'm going to ask you to vote 7 and 8 and 11 for confirmation, but at the same time, I want to ask you in this room, say, do you really agree that, under the cover of the struggle for human life at sea, you're going to go to the game business? What are those parameters and these are, in fact, the standards of your Parliament's work? Please tell me, why did you insert the number 7 rule, which excludes bookmakers from gambling, and you manipulate the term "cartball games using slot machines" and "organization and gambling in gaming slots"? In fact, bookmakers and slot machines will no longer be considered gambling. I want to ask, is this really today this room ready to go to such manipulations? I very much ask everyone in this room not to vote in favour of confirming these rights, because you're just going to be a party to the Law on the Protection of Human Life at Sea, and you're going to go through with the remedies for the gaming business. If these amendments are beautiful, beautiful, wonderful, those that the country needs, and there are no questions, make a separate bill, look separately, analyze separately, and not cover the lives of people at sea with gambling laws. And I'm very much asking you to take this vote right now and consider it a test, practically a test for this Supreme Council, who's lobbying the gaming business here. And let's look at it by name. It would be very, very interesting for the people of Ukraine to look at. Instead of the extra money for the treatment of the injured, the remedies for the gambling business, which are hidden in the law. Nope.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u98	The position of the committee on these amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u99	Now let me tell you what manipulation is, and I'll tell you what substitution is. Today, in the current Online Casino Tax Code, there's no tax on turnover, no tax on all other kinds of gaming business: both bookmakers bet, and lotteries, and everyone else. And online casinos don't, online casinos don't. And it's very sweet and touching to hear from that person, from that faction that every time they insist on military money, when they're protecting the gaming business, they're trying to avoid taxing it. And now it's really going to be a test, and now really this vote is going to show who's lobbying the gaming business and who isn't. And who's lobbying $1.5 billion into the state budget for additional military money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, please calm down. Dear colleagues, 7 and 8 corrections, right? I'll put a 7 on confirmation. She was taken into account by the committee. Now, one second, I'm going to see how it was counted. One second. Dear colleagues, the 7th Amendment of the Ironworks was taken into account by the Committee. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko puts this amendment to confirm. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:58:23]] For 241 Decision taken. 8 revisions. And Julia Volodymyrna is betting on confirmation. It's the Ironman's amendment, it's counted by the committee. Julia Volodymyrna is asking to place this decision on the committee for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:58:49]] For 253 Decision taken. Julius Volodymyrically, 11th bet? Let's not put it in. Okay. Thank you. Let's move on. And after that, Nina Petrovna Yuzanin is also three minutes old, and we're making three adjustments. These are the amendments 9, 12, and 26. Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I really want us to relieve the tension right now and listen to what the committee head just said from the rostrum, and I'm going to read you from the document. Indeed, for three years these people did not see two terms going in conflict. The term of the basic law, which has been in operation for three years, and the terms of the Tax Code. But since three years these people have been allowed to fail to pay taxes and not control gambling at all, and you know that from all media, from the work of TSC, these three people have been stealing money from the army, and now they're saying they're throwing money into the hall, and it's embarrassing. Thus, article 2 of the Law on State Gambling includes five types of games: organization and gambling at casinos. The second is the organization and gambling of casinos on the Internet. What do we have that we define the subject of taxation in the Tax Code? This is the income of operators derived from bookmaking, gambling (including casinos). Let's move on. Income tax rates. We read: 18 percent of the income derived from bookmaking, gambling (including casinos). Thus, all the existing provisions of the Tax Code cover the taxation of casinos as much as the broader concept that according to the basic law is indeed divided into two sub-species, but in the Tax Code it is more widespread: and gaming facilities that are held on the spot in residential and non-residential premises, or online casinos. Therefore, the statements that have just been made are absolute illiteracy and the manipulation of your mind, your honourable colleagues. Don't give in to it! Because it was actually discussed on the committee to avoid this ambiguity, but please remember, I just said that for three years they hadn't seen it, three years no one paid anything, they want to replace these terms. This means that all gambling organizers can easily reach a decision in court that they should not have paid all three years. By the way, so far no one has ever learned to control online casinos, because all their platforms are open outside Ukraine. And I'll tell you how. How, then, does the Law on the Finmon not define it, and the Law on the Phoenician Law is not in line? Then how can you explain it? Shame on you for explaining that! I think this decision will give you the opportunity not to pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u102	Please, the position of the committee, only without emotion.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u103	Let me remind you a little bit about the history of the game market in Ukraine, and what happened to us, and what happened to us. To us all the streets of our cities were run by illegal gambling establishments, and the budget did not receive a penny from them. And now, for today, half a billion a month goes to the army, half a billion a month goes to the army, and it doesn't go from online casinos. And this amendment, which is fully accepted in the text with Minfin, with tax, is about paying money to the casino. Sorry, the budget and the army got this money. And those people who don't want the money from the gaming business to go to the army, I don't know what they're doing in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I'm putting the 9th Amendment of Ironworks, it's counted by the committee. Jujanina asks that this amendment be made. It's a decision to confirm. I'm putting nine amendments on confirmation. Please vote. [[12:03:39]] For the 250. Decision taken. I'm putting 12 amendments. The 12th amendment of Iron's authorship is counted by the committee. At the same time, he asks for such a decision to be made. Please vote. [[12:04:06]] For 251 Decision taken. The factions, please. And the final amendment is 26. One second, I'll find her. Twenty-six amendments to Iron, which is also considered by the committee. He asks for such a decision to be made for confirmation. I'll bet 26 a confirmation amendment. Please vote. [[12:04:39]] For 252 Decision taken. Let's move on to the adoption of the law. What? Well, that's not what we talked about, friends. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, look, you said a lot too, but we have a deal. 3 Corrections to the Gethmans. Who's going to be the third amendment? Heroshenko – 3 revisions. Is that final, colleagues, and then we'll move on? Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the 3rd amendment is about changing the title of the law. And we hear we need to change it here, this law, to the Casino Act. We fully support Mr. Getmanzev, who says that men who are against the Ukrainian Armed Forces have nothing to do in this room. And we want to remind those who have sclerosis, that it was Mr. Getmants on February 21, 2022 that "European Solidarity", which required 54 billion from the casino, from the road, to translate into the Armed Forces of Ukraine, shouted that it was populism. Yeah, well, you haven't had anything to do in this session room in a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u106	Please hold position 3 on the right. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u107	Thank you. I won't, by the way. I want to remind you that on February 21st, both February 21st and February 21, one of these factions, from which a colleague was now speaking, was engaged in populism. And this is actually a professional exercise of this faction. And that law that we supported, I want to remind the people's deputies, was in agreement with the Ministry of Defense, was in agreement with Minfin, and I put money into the army. Not populism, but the real money that was in the budget, and not the politics before the invasion, but the army was being built up, and the nation was being built. Not what you did all five years before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I'm putting 3 amendments, she's the authorship of Getmantsev, to count. It's asking you to put Heratchenko up. Please vote for the 3rd amendment. And then we're going to vote on the law as a whole. 3 amendment, please vote. [[12:07:04]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us finally move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. I never thought that the Law on Support for the Protection of Human Life at Sea would elicit so much emotion. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending article 197 of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Protection of Human Life at Sea in accordance with the international agreements of Ukraine (registration No. 8176) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. So once again, this is a second-reading adoption and generally with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[12:07:58]] For 266 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. From the procedure? Who, Eutusek? Please, just out of procedure, Sergey Mikolayovich, or I'll rule it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u109	Ruslan Alexiyovich! Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to address you directly, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, because the bill that we've just been looking at really applied to human life at sea. And to answer to the respectable head of the Tax Committee, who was now talking about where Julia Timoshenko is or Irina Heratchenko. Let him think and take care of his place, for he has a small and medium business.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u110	Sergei Mikolaiovich, everything, turn off the microphone. It's not a procedure, Sergey Mikolayovich. I love you, I respect you, but the procedure is according to the Rules. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, let's move on. Dear colleagues, look, for that to happen, let's vote 9153 and stop talking about 116. Let's move on, dear fellows. 9315. I invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy by Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code and other laws against the illicit circulation of tobacco products, which is a second reading. We agreed that it would be 3 minutes, it would take Alexei Alexiyyovich instead of his amendments, and he would take 3 minutes, and he would make four amendments, and that would be all. Yeah? Who else? One second. And Julia Volodymyrna will still be brothers. Yeah? Okay. For confirmation. Julia Volodymyrna, can you ask me for a confirmation list so I can get ready? Please, Your Honor, let's start with the performances. Come on, Honcharenko Alexeiyyovich, three minutes. Hončarenko Alexiyyovich, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u111	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko. Dear friends, I would like to draw your attention to the following. The bill speaks of it, and the explanatory note says that since the illegal circulation of tobacco, the state loses 22 billion dollars a year in tax revenues. Once again, 22 billion dollars is a colossal cost. We need to put this in order immediately, because we have a place to spend government money, and that's the main thing -- military personnel, that's pay, that's pay. I welcome that, and this victory is ours, the Parliament has achieved and after that, I spoke yesterday from the rostrum and said that if the government does not immediately and immediately unlock the issue of payments to military personnel, namely, payments to border guards, the National Guards and, in general, the IMF system, which they did not receive in July in June, if it would not unlock payments under the law on leave to military personnel, and there are payments to short-terms, cadets, limited to eligible outposts outside the state that are not fit to be reviewed outside the state, to instructors of teaching centres wounded after serious injuries, prisoners, disappeared, and the Cabinet of Ministers did not make a timely change to the relevant decision entirely for unclear reasons. And only after the matter was raised in the Supreme Council, after I told the Supreme Council that I would block the work and the Supreme Council, and demand the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for their negligence, negligence, because you can't spit on those who are protecting the state today, but only after that last night did the Cabinet of Ministers meet again to address this issue and finally decided it. And what's important is, and this is our common victory, which, by the law that I co-authored, these supplements will be given to termites, cadets, limitedly fit, out-of-state, unfit for out-of-state review, training centre instructors in two months at a time -- both in June and in July. They have them for the month of August, until the end of this month. I'm still looking into it. We won't let our heroes get away with it, and we have to get all the money out there. But there is another question today. After the 30 was canceled, the question is very sharp, of course, it would be very right to return it, which is not solved, unfortunately, the issue of the return of the average wage to those who have gone mobilized today gets much less. I demand to consider this bill of mine. We work for the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u112	Thank you. Next, would you please, Julius Volodymyrically, bet for confirmation? Julius Volodymyrically, will you bet on confirmation? Well, that's later, because we still have some adjustments to take into account. Oh, three minutes of the show? Yeah? All right, let me get this straight. Eugene, are you three minutes, Nina Petrovno, and four amendments will be considered or confirmed? Okay, let's do a three-minute performance first.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, we now have a chance to make two decisions. I just think that we should be responsible not for any political considerations or ambitions or careers, but we just realized that filling the budget with our own incomes and payments that business makes is the most important thing for today. What must be done to deal with this situation of production, illegal production and presence throughout Ukraine, especially in Kiev, of illicit tobacco products marked as Duty Free? We've already figured it out, and the TSC figured out that this doesn't mean that these cigarettes are actually manufactured, that they're politically relying on some kind of factory, in fact, such illegal production of tens in Ukraine. No law enforcement agency is working with them, and somehow even the colleagues from TSC here have decided to go the other way. You can't really complain about law enforcement because they control the customs, and that's what the minister of finance said, everyone controls the customs completely, then let's think of something, let's turn it around in the air. And this is the know-how that they came up with, it doesn't give any positives at all, because it prohibits sales at car passes. Only the home-made cigarettes, which are supplied zero, are zero! I've got official information in my hands that's been given by the customs office. I got 2022, 2021 and 2023. In 2022 -- 0.3 percent of all cigarettes sold in Duty Free, 2023 -- zero at all. Of course, that's when it turns out that if the TSC has collected data that a large number of people are breaking into one of these cigarettes, that obviously the scheme, no one's buying that many cigarettes, then they're, it turns out, all of the imports, are imported cigarettes imported into Ukraine. And the first decision of the committee was to ban in Duty Free from selling cigarettes and imported into Ukraine, and from domestic production. It's also not true. But now it's decided, no, lobbyism is here primarily, and at the point of entry, and foreign producers, we're going to allow only foreign production to be sold in one hand, and we're going to ban the native from doing anything at all. I'm proposing an extra budget in my amendments, which means let them sell cars, but with excise and VAT payments in these stores. And this system needs to be launched. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u114	Thank you, Your Honor. Nina Petrovy, can I ask you to tell me what adjustments you're going to make and what adjustments you're going to make to confirm that I'm going to start putting them on. Let's start with those that count. Which ones, give me the numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u115	Amendment No. 2, which shall be budgeted by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u116	I'm only asking for numbers. You had three minutes to comment on that. The numbers, the 2nd is on the count. What about confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u117	2nd, 8th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u118	2nd, 8th. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u119	Now. 19th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u120	19th. Let me see. 2nd, 8th. 8-a is yours and 19-a is yours, right? And what will be yours?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u121	33rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u122	And 33rd. Are these the four adjustments we're taking into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u123	On account of that, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u124	But I give the floor first to the representative of the committee. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich, according to these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u125	Dear Nina Petrovna, regarding first the substance of the law and then the substance of the law. I don't understand how amendment number two can bring at least one bracelet into the budget, because this bill change into one letter. Maybe in a different way, but that's how we don't get the money into the budget. Now for the bill and the substance. Dear colleagues, I'll explain very simply. There's a ten billion-dollar scheme -- when instead of Duty Free cigarettes, they stay in Ukraine's markets. It's a schematic of several manufacturers that have introduced it and made it. And then we have statistics like this when you buy 30 packs of cigarettes for one check that you've never seen Duty Free. And let's not protect the stores of Duty Free, which are 14 pieces in Ukraine, but let's close the scheme for 10 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u126	Jaroslav Ivanovich, well, I asked you not to call people, so how are you? You're an experienced parliamentarian. You have to give the right to a replica. Please, Nina Petrovna, right of reply. It's all fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u127	I'd like to see a colleague, this bill amending the Customs Code. And in order to collect taxes on the budget, you have to accept a second amendment that says that these are changes to the Customs and Tax Codes. And the Tax Code! I've never heard more illiteracy than a man from the rostrum is now speaking. He says one word. That's one word. It's the key! Changes to the Customs Code. And I need changes to the Tax Code to raise 688 million by the end of the year. And you're the one who's refusing the armies in the extra coming. So what you're saying right now, about some schemes, 10 billion, that's going to come back to you later, unfortunately. But we're wasting our time and we're not allowing our army to be strengthened by additional arrivals. That's the first thing we had to do. Sadly, then, if you do not understand, do not make such a mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, let us move on to making decisions on these four amendments. And yes, amendment 2 of the author of the South and the Pavlovka. She's been rejected by the committee. Nina Petrovna of the South puts it this way. It's an adjustment to take into account. Please vote for the 2nd amendment. [[12:20:36]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The 8th amendment, as well as Nina Petrovna of Jujanina, was rejected by the committee. Now, one second, I'll check. I think there was one. 8 amendment, one second, yes, it's rejected by the committee. The authorship of the South and the Pavlovka You've heard the side arguments. Nina Petrovna makes 8 adjustments to take into account. Please vote. [[12:21:20]] For-52 The decision is not taken. 19 An Amendment to the Authorship of the South. The committee's dismissed. You heard the arguments. This correction is taken into account by a Southern. Please vote. [[12:21:48]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Thirty - three amendments were also made by Nina Petrova of the South. She's been rejected by the committee. Nina Petrovna asks for this correction to be taken into account. I'll bet 33 adjustments on that. Please vote. [[12:22:20]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have more. Nina Petrovna, you've got four amendments. It's all right, isn't it? We were only talking about four amendments. All of it. No, one second, we've had it since Julia Volodymyrna. Three minutes is a statement and four amendments are put on confirmation. These are amendments 4, 5, 6, 7. And 57 amendments will be made to Schrum. And then we vote on the law as a whole. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u129	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, what this bill is about, I think you all understand. A part of the producers of tobacco products in Ukraine conducted a seamless flow of goods through the Duty Free. Dear friends, this is a crime, and the crime is obvious. I have three questions. First, why was this crime not done by competent power structures or engaged in? In fact, if there's a tax evasion using Duty Free stores, that means that the baby, I don't know, there, the D.B.I., who's still there, tax-paying, all the others were already obliged to file a criminal case long ago and stop this crime. It's not stopped. I'm told it's not stopped because the muscle takes bribes and they don't stop it. Then I remind you that we have the NABU, there's the SAP, there's the Anti-Corruption Court, and if the forces are there and in the fate, and in the case, so bring them to account. It'll be smart. No, they don't take responsibility, they don't stop circulation through Duty Free, because there, well, they really make a lot of money out of it. What are they doing now? They are now adopting a law that forbids Ukrainian manufacturers from implementing their goods through Duty Free and allows foreign companies to do so. Well, please tell me, what's the point? Maybe someone can explain that if you can't handle the flow of black goods that are free-duty-free, then change your forces that take bribes and take part in it. Why are you punishing those Ukrainian manufacturers who didn't use this Duty Free? And you punish them too, you forbid them to do so even if they have no abuse. And foreign companies will now have preferences because they are allowed to trade through Duty Free, but with restrictions, and Ukrainian producers are not allowed. Our proposal is very simple: not to confirm number 4, which actually introduces this inequality, but actually do something one thing -- either to foreign manufacturers and Ukrainians, ban trade through Duty Free, and it would be logical, or force your forces to work, and then also to foreign producers, do the right to trade with restrictions, but don't do these different things. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u130	Please, Ironman, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u131	First, I thank you personally for supporting the text of the same bill in the first reading. To the second reading and correction that you now want to confirm, or reject, it adds more alcohol and reinforces that standard, makes it better. When you say that we're compromising someone, I have a letter from all the manufacturers, they say they don't deny it because the legal market is suffering from this scheme. As far as law enforcement is concerned, I report that from our TSC to the D.B., to the BSB, just in case, and, of course, to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, all the materials have been transferred. But once again, if we're talking about the text of this bill, this amendment adds a two-litre limit to alcohol, and it reinforces the very standard that you're now trying to protect. That's why I strongly advise her not to fail, to confirm this amendment and to introduce the bill in the form that the committee has submitted to the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, you've heard the argument from all sides. You insist, Julius Volodymyrically, on these amendments to set up, correct? So 4, 5, 6, 7 amendments will now be made. Please prepare for the vote. These are the amendments that are taken into account by the committee. And so, 4 amendments to the authorship of Getmance Danil Alexanderovich. She's a committee member. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko asks for this decision to be made for confirmation of the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I'm putting 4 amendments on confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:28:03]] For 248 Decision taken. Next 5 amendments, 5 amendments to the same Getmanchev. It's partially accounted for. Julia Volodymyrna asks the committee to make such a decision for confirmation. I'll put the 5th amendment in the edition, where it's partially accounted for, for confirmation. Please vote. [[12:28:34]] For 251 Decision taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. Next amendment 6 by Iron. It's also partially accounted for. Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko makes an amendment to Jaroslav Ivanovich, which is partially counted. The committee's decision, if you'll excuse me, to take partial account of the confirmation. So I ask you to vote for Amendment 6 as part of it. Please vote. [[12:29:10]] For 252 Decision taken. The correction remains partial. And the final 7 revision of the author of Mazurash. It's partially accounted for. Timoshenko asks for this decision to be taken in part into account for confirmation. I'm putting the 7th amendment in the paper, as it's part of the committee, for confirmation. Please vote. [[12:29:42]] For 253 Decision taken. Schrum, will you insist on correction? Dear colleagues, another amendment is Shkrum, 57th, and then we vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u133	Thank you, Mr. Head. It's a confirmation amendment, it's kind of technical, but it's actually important, 57th. Let's just try to sum it up a little bit more. During the war, we had a growing share of illegal tobacco production in Ukraine because of the so-called Duty Free stores, which are now mostly out of business, because they were banally located in airports, and through exports of cigarettes without excise stamps. Now it's more than half the illegal circulation of cigarettes in the country. Exactly what we were supposed to do a year and a half ago at the start of a full-scale aggression, we were definitely too late for that law. But what next? Then we give Kabmin another three months to make changes to his decrees in order to carry out this law, even when it takes effect. I propose to shorten this term and give Kabmin a month. That's enough, Kabin has long known these changes to the decision to make. Let's adopt this law, close this illegal cigarette market and give Kabmin one month to make quick changes and finally close this bench, which is unacceptable during the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u134	Please, Mrs. Alona, look, I'm asking you very much, let's be very careful next. This amendment is rejected, not counted. And rejected, we've already passed this part, but I'll hand it over to Jaroslav Ivanovich to explain, but I'm not going to put it on any confirmation, so we agreed. Please listen very carefully in the future as we go through the stage. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u135	Thank you, colleagues. It's no big deal that it's going to stay that way, because our End Positions are starting to get the bill going right through. Even before, September 1st. So it's going to be less time than a month, as you suggest, and we're going to close the schematics earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us move on to making a decision on this law. And so, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code and other laws on combating the illicit circulation of tobacco products (registration No. 9315). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:32:15]] For 276 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Thank you. Fellow Members, 9307: Draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code on the Settlement of Certain Issues of Management of Goods Under Customs Control. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[12:33:02]] For 276 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:33:24]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, immediately: two in, two in, two in, against, can we do without discussion? Can we not discuss this? Danilo Alexandrovich, your star exit. Please, the author of the bill. Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, in fact, unlike previous acts, this bill does not even make much sense to discuss. Why? Because today there is a gap in legislation. If the ARMA, if the ARMA realizes property that has been removed and transferred by the ARMA court for implementation and is under customs control, the person who purchased the property cannot pay the tax to the clearing budget. And it turns out the budget doesn't get that kind of money at all. This situation involved the implementation of ammonia and potassium, which had already taken place in 2022-2023: the product was implemented and the budget was not received. The situation is absolutely absurd because the customs office is legally unable even to accept this money into the state budget. So we've developed a bill that agrees with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the ARMA, with Minfin, with a customs that allows, if accepted, to pay these taxes to the state budget. It's very simple, it's all in the favor of the state, in favour of the budget, so I'm asking you to support the bill with a green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u138	Thank you. Please, two for, two for. Please give the floor to the national MP Nicorak Irina Petrovni, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u139	Please pass the word to Nina Jujanini. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u140	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u141	In fact, the essence of the draft law is very good, but I would like to ask questions to all the authorities, very largely. What's so late? Please tell me, at all during the war, when we're looking for every single penny in the budget, I didn't even realize that all the missing ARMA assets that were imported into Ukraine and that the state didn't get any taxes were not being paid by the new owner where they fit in. It seems to me that, God willing, the war will end, and then you will question and find such narrow moments, and sell as your gains, but our irresponsibility just strikes me. The second question. What is this war between the executives again? in executive power? Why is it the ARMA is now at war with the Holding Fund? Who is leading the ARMA? What's the plan? Where is the register of deleted, confiscated property? Well, it's okay, well, it's just going on so chaoticly and completely unscheduled that we can see the huge cost losses. But it's a loss to the state budget, it's a loss to the soldiers. At that time, someone receives an additional reward and cynically takes it into his own hands and spends it on his own business. It seems to me that if we do not yet implement standards that would also allow customs to require not only a certificate of origin of goods but also documents that confirm the entire chain of supply of goods from the manufacturer in order to ensure that goods supplied from the Russian Federation and the ban on Kabminu regulations are banned, we will also cease their supply as required by all states for sanctions. If we don't do it soon, it's a shame to be here in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u142	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zarski Maksim Valentinovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u143	Request to give the word to Owl Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u144	Please, Alexander Owl.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u145	Yes, a very important bill that needs business, because, well, the goods that are implemented through the ARMA don't pay for customs payments and business needs to solve it. We are also addressing the second issue of the cessation of customs regimes for goods that were removed by customs during the war and were handed over to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. So the law we need, let's vote and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u146	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy Maxim Mikolaiovich Chlapuk, the Voice faction. He's giving Jaroslav Ivanovich the Iron. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to thank you for the previous two decisions, this is a decision that makes money in the budget, about 10 billion, we're only going to collect by closing two schemes. This bill that we're considering is the third scheme that we've been looking at on both the committee and during our TSC. When there's an ammonia or potassium that's been arrested in Toliathiasot, or Belkalius. And then, during the war, they sell it without paying any customs fees. What was sold on a separate platform that you cannot access from a regular browser and you need to know these settings. It's a separate matter in the NAB. And I think it's going to traditionally end up with the next criminal court on a particular ARMA leader. But the bill for future periods gives us the opportunity to steal back into the state what needs to go into the budget. In this case, when we're looking at a case of potassium and ammonia, it's about 560 million dollars that were bought specifically, or stolen for sale last year in our ARMA. This bill is technical enough to say that if anything has been arrested in transit and sold, they have to pay the customs fees, as well as any goods that are imported into the customs territory of Ukraine. Once again, the technical bill is very simple, which, I think, will be confirmed by enough loudness in our anti-corruption bodies, but it is essential that at least in the future the next council in one government building should not come to us again to steal 500 million from the ARMA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u148	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, and then we vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, there is no doubt that the legislative gap should be regulated, and all comments by the GNEU should be taken into account during the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on the settlement of individual issues of the management of goods under customs control (Registration No. 9307) in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:42:50]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill was agreed without discussion. This is a draft law amending certain legislative acts to improve activities in the field of national aviation in Ukraine (register No. 9379). I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[12:43:23]] For 232 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain legislative acts to improve activities in the field of national aviation in Ukraine (registration number 9379). Please vote. [[12:43:51]] For 226 Decision taken. That the ventriloquist's voice makes one. Show the factions, please. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, the next bill 0201, is a bill on the termination of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the encouragement and mutual protection of investments. I'd like to make an offer to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:44:41]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two for, two for, please sign in. Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u151	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, any international agreements signed by the Russian Federation, as history has it, are not worth the paper -- the wing phrase -- on which these agreements are signed. Since 2014, when the Russian Federation occupied the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, parts of the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, since February 24, 2022, when the Russian Federation has fought a full-scale war against Ukraine and destroys Ukrainian property, Ukrainian enterprises in temporarily occupied territories, dismantles and exports Ukrainian property, this is based even on specialized business from the Russian Federation, talking about the need to protect investments, to talk about the need to meet some international obligations that our State has undertaken in relation to the Russian Federation, especially after these arrogant terrorist actions by the Russian Federation. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to break, terminate, and otherwise denounce all the international agreements that the Russian Federation has violated the very fact of unprovoked aggression it has committed against Ukraine since 2014 and expanded in 2022. I think I doubt how to vote for this legislative initiative, and I don't think anyone has it. I am convinced that the faction of the political party "Serving the People" supports this bill. And so I urge everyone to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u152	Please. Thank you. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u153	Dear Mr. Head, please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u154	Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I hope you have time to read the media there, where it hasn't completely sometimes censored everything, and you know that at a time when Parliament is considering important laws, including the ratification of now banning any projects on mutual investment with the Russian Federation, at this time Ukraine is trading titanium with the Russian Federation. It's during the war. And when we have the D.B.I., the D.B.D., the D.A., the D.C.S., the D.C.S., the D.C.S., the D.A., the D.C., the D.C., the D.C., the D.A., the D.C., the D.S.A., the D.A., the D.C.T., the D.S.A., the D.S.T.D., the D.S.T., the D.S.T., the D.A.T., the D.A.D., the D.A.D., the D.A.T., the D.S.A.T., the D.A.T., the "T.A.D.D.D.D., the "T.D., the nightmare" opposition, the "T.A.D., the nightmare," the nightmares, the "T.A.A.A., the nightmares," the "T., the "T.A., the "T., the "T.D., the nightmare, the "T., the "T., the "T., the "T.A.A.A.A.," the "T.S.", the "T.," the "T.," the "T., the "T., the "T.," I hope there are other people in this room who realize that Titan is a product that goes into the production of dual-use goods and weapons. And consider the speech, it's now like a request to the Ukrainian Security Service, to other law enforcement authorities, demanding that all these swindlers continue to trade in blood with the Russian Federation, continue to do business with Russia and the occupied territories. How many more of these traitors are in Ukraine and collaborators, and when will they be punished? And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to go back to the next one. There's a forbidden party. Representatives of the forbidden party are taking the lead today, including the Committee on Freedom of Speech. You have no freedom of speech, and you are going to eliminate this committee today, bringing it together with the Human Rights Committee, for the first time in the Ukrainian Parliament, at a time when the chairman of this committee four years ago on the day of Zelensky's inauguration filed a statement to the D.B.I. that Dustenko was a traitor because he was allowed to give orders as the Supreme Commander for the liberation of the Ukrainian Donetsk and Luhansk. He made accusations that it was Ukraine that was fighting Ukraine, that Kiev was bombing Donbas, and that you were great because they were your partners in the hall because today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u156	Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u157	I think the question is fully discussed and needs to be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u158	Thank you. Grigory Mikolaiovich Nemira, "The Fatherland" faction. Gregory Mikhailovich. Excuse me. Grigory Mikhailovich Nemira.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u159	Dear Mr. Head, I know what you're thinking right now. I want to say that I'm talking about the same thing for the third time in this rostrum. I hope this time, my dear colleagues, and Mr. Head, the Cabinet of Ministers will finally respond to the shameful situation that continues to exist. The war has been going on for almost a year and a half. As of today, I say this, according to the official data of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, more than 300, 300, more treaties, bilateral agreements between Ukraine and the Russian Federation remain in force. According to statistics, the Supreme Council of 4-5 of these contracts is denunciation per month. If such a pace remains, it will take more than five years for the Supreme Council to come out of all the treaties, Ukraine. Is this not a disgrace? A distinguished colleague from the "Serial of the People" faction, he called on everyone to support and express indignation at why these agreements remain with the aggressor country to support mutual investment, to explore intelligence, to exchange information in sensitive areas that are active. So I have a question: what does it take to finally cut off those ends that link our country to the aggressor country? Mr. Head, I urge you once again to go to the Cabinet of Ministers and resolve this issue once and for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u160	Thank you. Gregory Mikhailovich, I'll give you an answer. I wrote a letter before that. Just a few days ago, I received an answer from the Cabinet of Ministers listing these international acts that are between our countries. Yesterday, I went to the Cabinet of Ministers with a new letter: taking this list into account, to draft a bill on the denunciation of all these contracts that they put in the list. I very much hope that in the next session, we will all, together with you, vote with great pleasure on a comprehensive list of this entire dissolving of Ukraine's relations. So let's see. But I say again, you asked what I did, I'll report to you as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to accept as a basis and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments, Registration No. 0201. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:53:52]] For 274 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, next bill 0210. This is a draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on quarantine cooperation. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[12:54:26]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we not discuss this? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, then two in, two in. Well, they can't, they can't have people without discussion, and this is Parliament, it's natural. Please two in, two in, two in. Please, Jaremenko Bogdan Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, the obvious question. I think we all don't mind quarantine for Russia when they do well in the ground. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u162	Please, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, the "Fatherland" faction. Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for informing the Chief of the Supreme Council of a disgraceful situation that has not yet been decided on the denunciation of this complex of bilateral agreements and treaties with the Russian Federation. I hope the principle of trust works here, but check it out. And really, as it was said, the next meeting, we're finally going to solve this. But I want to remind you that there are still more than 200 SND agreements and more than 100 bilateral agreements and agreements between Ukraine and Belarus. So I have a question to Mr. Head, did this also apply to not only the Russian Federation, but also to the SND agreements, which are more than 200 active, and to the Belarus treaties, which are more than 100 active? I will be grateful for the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u164	Thank you. A complex issue that applied to all treaties, where the Russian Federation is a party. I think we're going to solve this issue a lot faster in Belarus because it's less orderly. Thank you. Let's move on. Eugene Nina Petrovna. And then, colleagues, let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u165	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u166	Please, Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u167	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I'm also happy to hear from Mr. Head that we're finally going to stop this strange tradition once a month of deciding to end our agreements with the Russian Federation, and hopefully we're going to do it once and for all. A specific agreement applies to quarantine plants. Obviously we'll support it. You need any parties to any agreements that talk about cooperation with the Russian Federation. But we need to understand that we need a quarantine against the Russian Federation and in one very important plane, in a spiritual plane. We need a quarantine against the influences of the Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine. That is why I am deeply outraged by the fact that more than half a year ago, since December last year, Parliament has not been asked about the day-to-day affairs of the Russian Orthodox Church. You and I are witnessing how the law enforcement agencies, the Ukrainian security forces, are exposing one by one the facts of the collaboration of the church's representatives with the Russian Federation. But, at the same time, you and I are witnessing how some of the detainees are released, once again continuing their activities. You and I are witnessing the decision of the local authorities to terminate the lease, whether on the ground or on the premises of the church, to approve decisions to prohibit the activity of the church in certain areas. But we are well aware that this is not enough, and we are well aware that the only solution to this issue is to adopt the law. There are two bills: a government – a softer and more rigid bill, where I, in particular, am one of the co-authors of this bill. We demand that the day-to-day laws be put into order, which will eventually put a stop to the existence of the Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, we discussed the issue of Bill 0210. Let's move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on quarantine cooperation (registration No. 0210). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:59:40]] For 268. Decision taken. Motovlover from procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u169	I ask you to put the following bills to the vote: 9318, 5492, 8395, 6119, 9453, 7629, 4482.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u170	Stop! Stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u171	I'm sorry, on 9453, we finish and move on to the blocking orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u172	Now, one second. I'm just going to clarify our colleague's offer, which just ran with it. So you're going to suggest that we change the day-to-day agenda and get the projects out of the way: 9318, 5492, 8395, 6119, 9453 and all, and the rest in a day-to-day fashion. Do I get it right? From the procedure on this issue, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u173	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, listen, have a conscience. Parliament was already due to move into a normal mode of work when we were working, sorry, two weeks, two weeks of recess, to work with the electorate, then again two weeks, and so on every month. You have permanent vacations when we're working, sorry, in a week, two or three days. Now you're back, the session goes at least to 14 hours, and you can do more, you're now taking projects out of the agenda to finish the session early and go eat, rest and so on. We're asking you to continue the sessions, not to support this draft. We support most of them, and we want them to be accepted today. That's what people are waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u174	I'm going to put our colleague's proposal first. I'm offering Andrew Viktorovich. Please. Andrija Viktorovich Motovilovitsa. Please vote. [[13:02:11]] For 215 The decision is not taken. We're doing what we planned. 9318, honorary colleagues. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving governance and the administration of social support for families and demographic policies. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:02:51]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Not included in the agenda today. Next bill, 5492. This is a draft law amending articles 110 and 111 of the Ukrainian Family Code. I'd like to make an offer to consider this issue with a reduced procedure, my dear colleagues. [[13:03:27]] For 196 Decision taken. There's always potential, you just have to force yourself on him, friends. Please two in, two in, two in. Let's write it down: two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in. Please, Andrew Mikhailovich Gerus, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u175	Please pass the word to Dirdin Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u176	Maxim Evgenovich Dirdin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u177	Thank you. Colleagues, today we're looking at a bill in the first reading, and I want to draw your attention to some points. First. The bill proposes that the second, third, fourth part of article 110 of the Family Code be repealed. That is, lifting the ban on breaking up a marriage during pregnancy and one year after the birth of a child. I think it's a premature moment and a disgraceful step, not to improve women's rights first, but to make this situation worse. I'm going to the profile committee on this. I realize that there is a need to clarify certain positions under article 111 of the Family Code. But if the profile committee leaves article 110 in the text, as foreseen in the first reading, I will oppose this bill and the repeal of article 110. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u178	Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u179	Please give the floor to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u180	Please, Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u181	You know, colleagues, I'd like you not to hear in this room this call for women's slavery and patience, any abuse or any violence during pregnancy or while the child is not yet a year old, and not being able to divorce a man in order to protect his child's rights and rights, and have to endure it until the child is one year old. It's just unacceptable. I think we've grown up since the imperial times. I think that every family and we are obviously interested in increasing the number of happy families, happy families with children living in full families. But every family that suffers from domestic violence or who suffers from their internal problems should be determined on its own, and there should be no national legal ban on divorce, for this is just like the Middle Ages. So I, my colleagues, urge everyone to support this bill in the first reading, and I hope that if there are any nuances that we have not worked as co-authors, we will be willing to work them constructively and in fact give women and men the opportunity to determine for themselves the rights of the child in their family life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u182	Thank you. Please continue with Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, of course, the bill is very important, it refers to a deep topic — the Ukrainian family, marriage relations, the rights and responsibilities of family members in marriage, outside marriage. Therefore, we need to be very careful about the standards that are being considered here. And I would like to point out that in all genders, as it were, approaches and rights of equality under marriage and family conditions, I would like to remind you of statistics that indicate that quite a number of domestic and family violence cases occur in relation to women. So a colleague and a trust MP were just speaking out, completely consistent with the definitions that were given, with that understanding of the situation. That's why it seems to us that the bill and the rules that apply to breaking up a marriage during pregnancy, a year after that, and so on, should be settled exactly as proposed. That's why we're going to support this bill. And let us do our utmost to ensure that our families, family members, husbands, women, children, are in harmony and that cases of violence against one another are avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u184	Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u185	The situation. At the strict insistence of my colleague Koval, I ask you to pass on the word of Inni Sowsun.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u186	Please, Sosun Inna Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u187	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. I understand that it would be very uncomfortable for Jaroslav Ivanovich to speak on this bill right now, so the faction will be me, and as co-author, including. The absolute savagery of the 21st century in the Parliament of a European country is that it is necessary to try in an absolutely patriarchal way to protect women, to continue to do so by forcing them to be married, where they realize that they do not love their husband. This is certainly necessary because it is not Parliament's job to force people into relationships where two people decided they did not want to stay. I also want to say that the absolute savagery for Parliament is in principle to tell people who to love and who not to love, who to love properly, and who to love wrongly. And I very much hope that in addition to this bill Parliament will also be supported by a bill on civil partnerships, because this is already a requirement of the European Court of Human Rights, which pointed out that the absence of this legislation in Ukraine is a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights. Likewise, I very much hope that eventually Parliament will reach out to start implementing the Istanbul Convention. Guys, we ratified the Istanbul Convention more than a year ago after 10 years of trying to do this. But unfortunately, most of the bills that are aimed at implementing the Istanbul Convention are not currently being considered. And I really hope that the law enforcement committee will eventually come to look at the laws that are aimed at the implementation of the Istanbul. This is 8329 colleagues of Galina Mikhailuk, this is my Bill 9093. We need to make protection against domestic violence real, not because of coercion and because of the ban on divorce for those who have long realized that they do not want to be in this relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u188	Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, after listening to the discussion, I would like to express my view of this issue about the possibility of divorce during pregnancy and the first year after pregnancy. Such an initiative, to my firm conviction, can be solely on the part of a pregnant wife and only if it is her sincere desire in her first year of child rearing. And men have these two years, or 1 year and 9 months, to wait and help. It's both human and male. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt the draft Law amending articles 110 and 111 of the Ukrainian Family Code (registration number 5492) in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:12:48]] For 232 Decision taken, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill 83. What is it? What happened, Jaroslav Ivanovich? Please, Iron Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u191	There's a constructive proposal that I translate from Motovilovac's language into human. Now let's move on to the blocking orders, change the agenda of our session accordingly, and move on to these. It's a big day's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, is there an offer, I understand correctly, to change the order of the day and to move on to issues like 7629-P, 4482-P, 5125-P, 7588-P1, 7588-P2, 7588-P3, 9311-1-d-P? Did I make the right proposal? I'm putting Jaroslav Železniak to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:14:18]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. You see how sometimes you just have to say it in human language, and people understand it. Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich, for your understanding. Then let's move on to the regulations. Honorable colleagues, ruling, draft Decree 7629-P. This is a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 14.07.2023 on adoption in second reading and as a whole as a law of Ukraine of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code on Administrative Offences in the Field of Collective Responsibility (registration number 7629) (since 02.08.2021). Dear colleagues, the discussion is done automatically under a reduced procedure. Can we just say two in, two in, two in, against, are you going to report it? Is there going to be a reporter? Please invite the reporter, Ukrainian national deputy Mikhail Jakovitch Wolinz. Please, Mikhail Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, the Fatherland faction is trying to stop another adventure against the people of employment. What was voted on July 14, this year in Parliament’s Hall? It was intended to leave the people of employment to collective protection of the right to collective bargaining and agreements. For example, what does the employer do and Parliament play and create such rules for the employer? When a company has 500 employees, the company reduces the number to 100 people, five times, and then divides the company into four more, and the bill provides that there will be no administrative responsibility of the employer if it does not comply with the applicable law, the International Labour Organization Convention, and there will be no collective agreement on the enterprise. This is a violation of International Labour Organization Convention No. 87 — the right to freedom of association, the violation of Convention No. 95 — the right to negotiate and conclude collective agreements and agreements. So this is not an approach to the European Union, this is done to ensure that Ukraine is not accepted into the European Union. It's a lie. But most importantly, today the people of employment in Ukraine are not protected, nor do they feel that they are cared for by the authorities, who are concerned about Parliament. The Fatherland faction calls for the blocking of a bill that was adopted on second reading today, and more such adventures do not apply in Parliament. We stopped another huge adventure when it was proposed in another bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u194	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Calchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich. Out of place, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u195	Your Honor presiding, distinguished national MPs! The Regulatory Committee has considered draft Decree 7629-P and recommends that the Supreme Council be determined by voting on its adoption or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please two for, two for, and no, please sign up. Dear colleagues! Eugene Nina Petrovna, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u197	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u198	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u199	Pottery, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we are now discussing the issue of the blocking order, which was registered on August 2, which was registered in July months after the adoption of the relevant law. Again, July. I have a simple question: where is the consideration of the blocking order of the Cabal MP, which was introduced in April? We're looking at July by blocking the decrees, and April? Where is the Supreme Council regulation? We actually created such a Perpetuum Mobile, and in this case No. Mobile, you know, an eternal brake that can be blocked by any law, just by making a decision. This is about the 30-year return law to all: the police, the rescue workers, the Nazis, all the military personnel wherever they are. This decision of the blocking Mr. Tsabbal is still in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and continues to block this issue. That's not fair. Why we had already moved on to the July blocking decrees and forgot about one April blocking decree. It's a disgrace! It's a violation of the Rules. I ask the leadership of the Supreme Council to take and move on the Rules, to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council the blocking decree of Mr. Cabal, to decide on it and thus to enforce the law. Hundreds of thousands of our military personnel are waiting for a just decision, but it is also very important to support and implement the Supreme Council's Rules, not to make it a cover for something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u200	Please, Schwaczko Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u201	Colleagues, please proceed to the vote and unlock an important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u202	Thank you. Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u203	Thank you, Mr. Head. I certainly respect the right of the Ukrainian national MPs to initiate appropriate draft regulations, but unfortunately this looks more like a pyari than a desire to work constructively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose the adoption of a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 14.07.2023 on the adoption of a second reading and in general as the law of Ukraine of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of the Code of Administrative Offences on Responsibility in the Field of Collective and Confidential Activities (registration number 7629) (from 02.08.2021). Registration number 7629-P. Please vote. [[13:22:33]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next 4482-P. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of a second reading and the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the organization of the activities of separate branches of a legal person established in accordance with the legislation of a foreign state. In accordance with the Rules, this issue is dealt with in a simplified procedure, this is Decree 4482-P. Dear colleagues, without the author's report, immediately two in favour, two in favour. Please sign up. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u205	Dear Mr. Head, may I have the floor to present to Mr. Alexia Hotcharenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u206	Please, Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u207	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I continue to remind you that this decision was made in July by a blocker. And to unlock the law, it has already been brought before the Supreme Council. I have a simple question. Where Mr. Tsabbal's blocking decree was made in April that blocked the "thirty" return to everyone. I remind you, the President promised, he said "thirty" would be until the war was over. It was different: the war didn't end, the '30s' ended. It's all covered up by a restraining order. It's wrong, it's unfair, and it's also destroying de facto parliamentaryism, because tomorrow, by any means, you can block any law and just never bring it up. This is not what was meant by the Supreme Council Rules, which allow for blocking decisions. Let's stop this, let's get back to regularity and let's solve the issue of essentially paying back all our military personnel. Because today there are some promises that aren't really real, and many people don't understand the decision that the Cabinet of Ministers made yesterday, people think it's a unlocked 30. That's not true and they don't get it. And it's going to be another one for people, you know, huge abuse and disappointment, and these are the people that are protecting us today. We need to stop doing this: entering the legislature, making the order of the Cabal. And this is the first important step. So I'm going to the Supreme Council leadership, please do this and let's get back to the legal path, and let's work on the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u208	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich, "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u209	Thank you, Mr. Head. I reiterate my respect for my fellow national MPs who exercise their regulatory rights, but it is necessary to respect both time and the rights of those Ukrainian national deputies who have already been determined under this law. And no decision today will get the required number of votes to call off the previous vote. It's just a delay in time, and in the course of the war, we could now look at much more topical issues. Thank you for your attention. And I propose the following decisions to be considered without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose the adoption of a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of a second reading and the whole draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the organization of the activities of separate branches of a legal person established in accordance with the legislation of a foreign State (registration No. 4482-P). Please vote. [[13:27:06]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next 5125-P. This is a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the second reading and the entire draft Ukrainian Credit Association Act. Will the author be speaking? Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, 2 minutes from the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u211	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, to be honest, I do not want to repeat that this Supreme Council has simply become a congregation of workers. Every day we see certain criminal events when deputies, including most of them, take bribes for decisions made. And this Supreme Council of this call during the war, it's not looking at the very important bills that people need: to increase funding for the treatment of the wounded, to finance the establishment of rehabilitation centres, to pay people a decent pension during the war, and much is not being considered. But there was a Bill 5125 on credit unions, and it was during the war that people took the last money. It's essentially during the war to create new MMMs. Because it's in the law that credit unions, without any guarantees for people, will collect money from them, then spend it on their needs, promise people space interest, and it's all been adopted by Parliament during the war. That is, the law that will take away people's money by deceiving them. This is Bill 5125, which was initiated by the Servant of the People. Dear friends, I ask you now, yes, the hall is empty, but right now the people can't see that there's almost no one in this room, there's a hundred people left, and so there's certainly no voice coming. Because they don't care what you have through MMM, they're going to take the last money out of the credit union. But who is, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u212	Do you want to talk about it? Please sign two in, two in, and no. Please, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u213	Yeah, I just want to go on. I want to go to this semi-empty room, to the deputies who are still here. Dear colleagues, if you do not now vote in favour of repealing this Law 5125, with its entry into force legally, with the signature of the President of Ukraine, thousands of so-called credit unions will be created in the country, which are formed very easily. They don't need statutory capitals, they don't need any proof of the ability to run this business, they're just going to have thousands and thousands of these crooks, who are going to be through advertising, which is going to be through maybe the only marathon channel, they're going to tell people that you're giving your money, we're going to give you some incredible percentages, and then you're going to be millionaires, and underneath that noise, people are going to get money out of their pockets. Please don't open this Pandora box, let's not let the adventurers, the crooks, the thieves open credit lines during the war and take these last copies from people. In order to prevent this law from being enacted during the war, unfortunately, you need to vote for it now. And I'm asking you to vote it off. And it's very strange to me today that these bills are actually in the agenda, that they're being discussed at all, they're being passed by committees. It only says that the majority in Parliament, their committees, their committee leaders, they are all permeated by corruption, illegal lobbyism and action against the interests of the state and against the interests of the people. I ask you to vote in favour of repealing Bill 5125 on MMM.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u214	Please, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u215	"European Solidarity" will vote on this resolution, because it is quite obvious that today, under the noise of martial law, we have so many corrupt lobbying laws in this room that we are ashamed to talk to soldiers. You know, it's very interesting that there isn't a man here right now who, on February 21, 2022, told us that all the European Solidarity Initiatives about helping the army are populism. Where was he? I want to say that we're going to be putting a restraining order on the so-called "investors" bill, which just today seems to favour the deputies who are sitting in this room, so that they can make certain high-cost ones there without a moment. Production was not paid for this duty, which is to be taxed to our Ukrainian Armed Forces. Why is all this lobbyism happening in the session room, colleagues? Well, it's quite obvious that we have a coincidence here today, only when laws are passed that we can, you know, make something to the servants. Notice that the European Solidarity deputies are now in court, defending the honor of Officer Roman Czervinsky, the one who discovered these secret weapons of the President's Office by "wagers," who were just released and then came to Ukraine to kill. Chervinsky can't be released. Pasha-Mersedes, please let him out of S.I.S. today, and he's already at home. It's an absolute shame. We demand that Parliament work tomorrow, and I ask you to put to the vote the proposal "European Solidarity," that all of these laws, those bills that have not been considered today, Parliament will be discussed tomorrow, Friday, in the sessionary plenary regime. Dear voters, pay attention to the hall. Where are the servants, where the new faces that promised you from morning to evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u216	Thank you. Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any need to vote for this blocking order, because some time ago the hall was defined. And with regard to accusations of corruption in various ways, it is indeed shameful that we have recently seen in the media, and even more shameful to hear from those who have been in power for a long time and who have themselves produced corruption, stories of corruption, and struggles with it. Thank you for your attention. We vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u218	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform. You don't? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u219	Thank you, Your Honor Mr. Head, Chairman. Expressing my utmost respect for the author of the appropriate decision, I reiterate the time and circumstances in which we do so. Please save time for more important issues, but once again, I emphasize that no decision will be made today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u220	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. The camera couldn't find you. You're hiding in another place. Don't let him find it. Yeah? Okay. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft decision on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Law on Credit Relations (Registration No. 5125 of 31.01.2023), Decree No. 5125P. Please vote. [[13:36:34]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the next one. [[B in m in s a l in]] The procedure is Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u221	Thank you. You know, there are really a few politicians in this room who have had the privilege of going to Parliament and being both in power and in opposition to the "one-time" deputies who, you know, have been so tired in four years that they're not in the session room. While the MP who was both in power and in opposition and does not go through sessions unlike colleagues at the hall, look, "European Solidarity" is now in court in Chervinsky, where "Serves"? One question is, where are the servants? And "European Solidarity" requires that we now put to the vote the question that all the bills that have not been discussed at the plenary meeting today, Parliament will consider tomorrow, as well as the draft legislation banning the Moscow Patriarchate, the Order calling off Shufrich from the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council from freedom of speech, and also a very important bill on bomb shelters, because there are problems with that. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u222	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please prepare a proposal with bill numbers, Irina Volodymyrno. And we'll go back to this proposal next. 7588-P: draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Improving the Effective Use of Land by Persons and Subjects of the State Sector of the Economy (number 7588 of 25.07.2022). By Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich Are you there? I can't see. Then the request to register: two in favour, two in opposition. Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich, "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u223	Colleagues, I urge you to support these rulings and proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u224	Thank you. Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, European Solidarity. Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u225	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u226	Dear friends! Alexei Hotcharenko. I don't know if they see the audience, because our meeting of the Supreme Council is, for some reason, broadcast overnight. It's, I don't know, whether we've been compared to adult movies or for other reasons or to horror movies, I don't know. Or it's the New York Prime Time, because maybe someone in America is interested in our meeting. But it is obvious that the national marathon is not interesting for people in Ukraine to learn about the work of the Supreme Council. But in principle, you can understand why. Because if people looked at it now, they would see that there were, well, maybe 50 deputies left in the session room. Everyone else's. By the way, do we have a plenary day in August? Another one, huh? Everyone else, well, no power, no desire. Someone's collecting packets for the money of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, like our colleagues directly from a monotony, one of them now, I understand, at the S.I.A. Other colleagues who buy their own property in Cyprus or Vienna to go there and then send us statements from there after everyone has found out about it. Or any other, extremely important things are, well, extremely important, they don't. At this time, a bill on the demobilization of the military after 18 months of service continues to exist in the Supreme Council. It's not being considered at all. The draft law on the return of the average wage for military personnel is not being considered at all. The draft legislation on the exemption, allowing for the release of the armed forces that have already given up their health for Ukraine, is not being considered at all. These are all my bills. Bill on the release of persons with disabilities in the first and second groups. We hold in the ranks of the U.S.S.A. the first group, the second group, and we prevent them from being freed! At this time, only 50 national deputies have the power to work fourth.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u227	Thank you. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, we're about to lose time to consider these decrees, which are gaining an unworthy number of votes, not because there are no national MPs here, but because they're not on time right now. And we're really very important laws because of this we can't look at, and some people use this time for cheap pierra and personal accounting. I'd like to make a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u229	Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose a motion for a vote to be adopted as a whole by Decree No. 7588-P on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the improvement of the efficiency of land use by individuals and entities of the State sector of the economy (No. 7588 of 25.07.2022). Please vote. [[13:42:44]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u230	Dear Mr. Alexander Sergiyovich, distinguished colleagues, please put to the vote the proposal for tomorrow's session room to meet with the Supreme Council for plenary meetings and to vote on the following laws. First, the Social Policy Committee 8395, 6119, 9453. It's different. And also Bill 7552, Bill 9387, Bill, also on the Social Policy Committee, 8244, Bill 5865. Bills 9279, 8427 and, above all, 8221 on the Moscow Church, 9358 on the bomb shelters and 9584 on the issue of the Information Policy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u231	Thank you, Arthur Vladimirovich. I remind you that according to the decision we made on the 28th, it seems July, the time and place of meetings are determined by the Conciliation Council. So I'd like to ask you to make an appointment tomorrow to the Conciliation Council, where you have full membership, like all the other factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Maybe, yeah, maybe. I'm not putting it to a vote. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Start the caller procedure, please, if you do not like the order of conduct. Let's go to Bill 7588-P1. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law on amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the efficiency of land use by individuals and entities of the State sector of the economy (registration number 7588) (from 25.07.2022). There's the author. Are you the co-author, Ivan Grigorovich? Okay. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, from co-authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u232	Dear friends! Kirilenko, the Fatherland faction. For history's sake. Of course, the result of the vote is clear. But the gathering of early grains in Ukraine is over, and we are gathering the main bread crops — wheat, crops, and nothing. Little is worth $165 a ton in better farms. If you can break into ports, such as Poland, Gdansk, plus 100 dollars per tonne, the price of implementation is 140. Stop it, Dad, trade it, there's nothing to give. Friends, after a month of sowing the main bread crop to be sown on several million hectares of wheat. Who will sow for themselves and for what will they sow? Friends, we voted today, more faithfully, for days, that the lands of the state will be no more, and state farms will be no more. Whom are we obliged to sow the main food culture — the bread of whom? Private owner? Good luck. Friends, and what do they suffer from in this regard, higher education institutions where there are only 30,000 hectares of land and agriculture, where students are trained: agronomists, zootechnics, veterinarians, hydrotechnicians, engineers -- they're going to have 100 hectares left. On 100 hectares, build a farm, build a research farm on 100 hectares, or what? Why are they suffering? That's why we opposed this bill, my friends, against its approval, because let's get our minds on it, because it's not far from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u233	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. Please sign in 2 in, 2 in. [[B in m in s a l in]] We have eager discussions. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is no such party anymore. Please, Mikisha Dmitri, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u234	Hello. I support the ruling of this blockage. In fact, indeed, the vachanal of the land primarily of the learning land that has been and is happening, and the bill that was adopted, it doesn't fully reflect the substance. We realize that for the first time in school, for many higher education institutions, they are really lost. And even Kharkishte has a monster that's also not properly formed, a biotechnology university, but even now it's losing its material base in accordance with this bill that it is. So, of course, I'm going to support this blocking order. And, fellows, I would also like to support you to return that bill, which, so far, the bill, for re-reading, and we've reviewed it all again, and we've really decided, made the right, considered decision about the norms to those laws that are in the bill, and were made between the first and the second readings. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u235	Thank you. Pottery Alexiyyovich, please, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u236	Please pass the word to your colleague Nina Jujanini. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u237	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u238	Unfortunately, our voters will really only see this session at night in the record, but it is very good because everyone is already asking: Will they be at night? They're willing to watch even at night, because people are interested. I didn't pay much attention to this bill, I admit when we were talking here in the hall, but what I heard in the working group, and then on the committee, it just really bothered me. The colleagues who are here, I want you to hear. It was the minister of agrarian politics who reported that this involved the removal from the permanent use of more than 500,000 acres [500,000 ha] of land. About 300,000 acres [300,000 ha] belonged to an agrarian academy. Questions. What does it mean to delete and subtract? Why Take It Off? Because they're profiting from illegal renting. Why do they do that? Bo forbade rent. So let's legally lay down rules for them, let's let them rent out areas that they don't use to study and do research. No, we'll take them. Why? - I'm asking. And how many acres are you going to leave the agrarian academy? Zero. Zero. You just said 100 acres. Zero! I say: How will they continue to do so? And they're going to take a sub-rendition to a state-owned enterprise that gets a holding company that's going to get all 500 grand after the removal, get a holding fund, pass it on to a new state-owned enterprise, and the Academy of Agricultural Sciences will be able to take 1 hectare, 2 or what, and pay a 12 percent tax on land regulation. It's a cross at this academy. They will never be able to take part in this contest and take no, no hectares of land. Please support me. Re-reading is what you have to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u239	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u240	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u241	Thank you. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a bill for registration number 7588-P1 as a whole. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law on amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the efficiency of land use by individuals and entities of the State sector of the economy (Registration No. 7588) (since 25.07.2022). Please vote. [[13:51:34]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the next question. Heratchenko's procedure. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u242	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I inform you, in view of the fact that the Conciliation Council is now going on in a closed, secret regime, as well as the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but as a member of the Conciliation Group, I would like to inform you that the appropriate decision has been made that Parliament in plenary is working on August 9, 10 and 11. And that's why our political power, our political faction, is asking the chairman to execute the decision of the Conciliation Council to put to the vote the bills that the gentleman has heard. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. Well, notice, voters, even at night, when you're watching a horror movie, which has now been turned into Parliament, that faction is addressing the chairman, but there are more important issues with the "Serve of the People" factions. We ask you to implement the decision of the Conciliation Board to put to the vote now the questions that the Lord has raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u243	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. I'm not doing this. 7588-P2: The draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on improving the efficiency of land use by individuals and entities of the State sector of the economy (Registration No. 7588) (since 25.07.2022). Two for, two for, please sign in. Cuba's Stepan Ivanovich, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u244	Dear Mr. Head, may I have the word of Nina Petrovni Jujanini?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u245	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u246	I think our viewers and our voters will be interested in listening to what it turns into and how it creates a new mega-corruption scheme. There's someone here who's been talking about corruption in previous years, so you're also reading about the fact that corruption during the war has reached greater proportions than there are those presidents who are now far away from the Russian Federation. So they took 500,000 acres [500,000 ha] of land and transferred it as a temporary administration of the Holding Foundation. The holding fund is still handing over this land, all 500,000 plus, to the permanent. More loyally, using a new state enterprise for 50 years. Wait a minute, is it going to be one, or is it going to be twelve or twenty-four, it's still unknown, they said, they'll think about it. This new state enterprise will pay only 12 percent of the land’s rent for land because it is already leased for 50 years, not in constant use. And then this land goes to auction, and the suborder has to be 12 plus. As they said, they are willing to take this land below 24 percent. I imagined who they wanted. They're here among us in the hall who want to take this land under 24 plus. And all they're counting is 12 percent of this state-owned enterprise is going to pay in the budget, and 12 of them are going to leave it at their disposal. Aren't you ashamed, government? You'll never stop stealing again. You have 1.5 percent of turnover in the grain corridor, you're going to have 12 percent. I figured it'd be about 5 billion a year and it'll be stored in the pocket and probably used as a political struggle, because it's already centralized.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u247	Thank you. Please, Klochko Andry Andriyovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u248	Thank you. I ask you to proceed to the vote because there is no quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u249	Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u250	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I would like to address those who will look at us when we consider these worthless decrees there are not even the authors who made these decrees. Most of the authors are not in the room, it's just insolence. We have lost 52 minutes to deal with these issues, and we could adopt, as a minimum, three important laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u251	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Some authors are still present. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? It's not out of the ordinary. The bill is put to the vote for registration number 7588-P2: draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the second reading and the whole draft Act "On amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the efficiency of land use by individuals and entities of the State sector of the economy" (registration number 7588) (from 25.07.2022). Please vote. [[13:57:40]] For-23 The decision is not taken. It's a non-adopted decision. Next, 7588-P3: draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 27 July 2023 on the adoption as a whole of the bill of the draft law on amending certain laws of Ukraine on improving the efficiency of land use by individuals and entities of the State sector of the economy (registration number 7588 25.07.2022). Please sign two in, two in, and no. Mikisha Dmitry, please, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u252	Thank you. Colleagues, once again Bill 7588, which was adopted by Parliament, is a mistake. We understand, yes, there are some problems, perhaps even major problems, that the lands that were in the Academy of Agar Science and others, about their use, proper use and generally how it should function, these questions really existed and existed, yes. But this story that was adopted -- 7588 -- it's not what doesn't solve this problem, it's being expanded, it's being consolidated by the currents that are in, let's say, in the towers, in the back offices about these lands, and it doesn't exactly improve the situation anymore. Is this going to give the state and the local budgets? Well, that's another question, we'll see if it's true or whether it'll improve the situation or fill local budgets first. I have huge questions about this. And the fact that 7588 in general is a little bit under certain nice terms, it solves a whole different question, but also with regard to land, well, it's obvious to many national MPs and those who didn't support the bill as a whole. So once again, colleagues, the appropriate determination needs to be supported. The bill is going back to second reading, and we're looking at revisions. The right, the nice novels and the changes that will improve the bill and actually bring it to its senses and to its normal state, and by then we'll accept it by the majority in the room, and the bill will really help the state budget, and primarily the local budgets. So I ask my colleagues to support the blocking order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u253	Please, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, "European Solidarity",
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u254	Mr. Head, may I have a word with the Potter of Alexia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u255	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u256	Friends! Alexei Hotcharenko. Uniquely, for the first time in history, I'm speaking at the same time from the Supreme Council's rostrum and in a telegram channel, and now everyone is going to see it for the first time, it's going to be the first time in history. That's the reason, my friends. And here's the reason. As the sessions of the Supreme Council are not being broadcast until now, but only at night, but it is very important that I say hello, and we are now considering the decision of the authorship of Deputy Gunka. Gunko is the one with the $85,000 package, the Servant of the People. Remember, there was a song there called "The Servant of the Nation," and now he can sing. I think he's wondering what's going on in the hall right now. Mr. Gunko, we're looking at your ruling, the truth is, there are almost no deputies left, because on the second day the deputies are very tired, as you can see, there are 40 deputies in the session room, but we're handing over greetings to you, we're now considering your decision. This is how the Supreme Council works today. This goes into a telegram channel, and I'll add, friends, of course, what's going on right now is a disgrace. We don't have any deputies, we're looking at the decision of another MP that we have right now in S.I.O. We already have so many such deputies that there may soon be a separate meeting there to hold, at least, a committee meeting. This is a very, very dangerous trend, my friends. And the problem is, this is how we destroy parliamentaryism. We're destroying the state because when people see that there's no time in Parliament to look at the issue of military personnel, the return of payments, the demobilization, nothing, a part of Parliament is already sitting in the S.I.A., somewhere else it's broken down. You understand what a serious challenge this is. Friends, so please, let's all understand that we should go back to the normal work of the Supreme Council, with hours of questions to the government, with a normal number of deputies, with a normal number of meetings, not this smiley face that we're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u257	Thank you, Alexeiyovich. In fact, committee meetings can be held there because there are representatives of all factions and groups, most of them with suspicions there, and various packages, and so on. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u258	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I would like to point out that we have now witnessed a gross violation of our decision to provide information on the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a few hours after its completion. First. The other one. Mr. Chairman, I ask you to respond to when speakers do not discuss the substance of the draft decision. And I really understood the position of the deputies who left this room so that we don't waste any time doing what we're doing now. We could have adopted a series of laws if it wasn't for those decisions that made no sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u259	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill of generality under registration number 7588-P3: a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 27 July 2023 on the adoption as a whole of the Bill of Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine on improving the efficiency of land use by individuals and entities of the State sector of the economy (registration number 7588) (from 25.07.22). Please vote. [[14:04:33]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Bill 7588 can thus be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council and directed towards the signature of the President of Ukraine. Hopefully, it will be as soon as possible. We have another question of the order of the day. From the procedure? The procedure is Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u260	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the gravest violation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine is political censorship. The grossest violation of the laws and regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the aimless use of the "Council" channel. You know, they spend hundreds of millions of dollars and dollars a year on the "Rady" channel, along with their partners. But the Council Channel shows the President's Office. I want to thank Mr. Ironborn, Mr. Alexia Hotcharenko, and you can also say to yourself, "Thank you, Irina," that we are now fully informed about the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, about the laws that it adopts, about the discussions that are here. I think it might be a professional committee on freedom of speech, but there are three deputies working there, headed by these three deputies, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u261	This is no longer a procedure, Irina Volodymyrna, so please stop Heratchenko. Thank you. Thank you. I want to remind you that the "Council" channel is showing our sessions in the record, as stated in the Supreme Council's Ordinance, for two days. I'm not a marathon director, I can't answer that question. Please, 9311-1-d-P. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law on Optimization of the Property Structure of the Operator of the Ukrainian Gas Transport System (Registration No. 9311-1-d) (from 28.06.2022). Please, from the authors of Kucherenko, please. Let's get the puppy out of here, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u262	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we are indeed overly sorry to discuss this issue in an empty hall. There's no claim here for the authors of the rulings, so I want to correct some of my colleagues, these decrees make sense. And personally, specifically, this decision by Timoshenko, Kucherenko, refers to a bill that the authors have allowed themselves to call - the optimization of the ownership structure of the Operator of the Ukrainian Gas Transport System. In fact, the correct title of this bill would have to be completely different -- about correcting the shameful, unprofessional, anti-Ukrainen, idiotic mistake of adopting the Law, four years ago, about the so-called banning. There is no optimisation, we just have to correct our error, which has had a crazy negative impact on the gas market, on the gas transport system, which has caused the GTS operator's total non-conformity, to the actual bankruptcy of the GTS Operator, and that's our particular problem of national and energy security, and now you're correcting this error. In the course of this consideration, unfortunately, a whole range of our suggestions and rights, and my own personal ones, were not included by colleagues in the hall. We offered to create a transparent management system, and we proposed to create a tariff and the very activity of this GTS Operator as transparent as possible for society. We have offered other things that are not regulated today, unfortunately by your authority and the state of Ukraine, for your part, but unfortunately, they have not been accepted, and that is why we have made this decision to cancel this unfortunately short-term law on so-called optimization.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u263	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in. Andrew Andryovich Kloczko, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u264	Mr. Chairman, I think we need to get to the vote and save time for colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u265	Thank you. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u266	Please give me your word, Mr. Head, Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u267	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u268	Those who suffer from our performances may exit the hall. Nobody's holding anyone. And I'm talking to our voters now. I'd like to finish my preliminary draft of the law first. All I'm saying is that I'm basically bringing to your attention the great combination that the current MPs have built with the President's Office. Because if a state-owned enterprise that owns 500 plus thousands of hectares of land rents a sub-prime business that can pay 24 percent, it will only pay 12 percent in the budget, because it will be rent, service, not land tax. If they wanted to fill the budget, they would hand over to those who were willing to pay 24 percent, not as a subprime, but as a lease from the Holding Fund. And then all the money would go to the state budget. Thus, a state enterprise or a network of such public enterprises will be the main sponsors for the electoral campaign of the entire brotherhood, which wants to go through two, three flanks and have power again. Of course, the people of Ukraine are now in a state where despair, grief, tears in each family do not even allow them to watch the meetings of the Supreme Council at night. So if you have at least a drop of conscience left, be accountable to those who are fighting, who are losing their health, who are leaving life on the battlefield in general for us to discuss with you. And it's no big deal that you've heard the true information the other day, not what you're told in faction meetings, and I'm asking you to take that into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u269	Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose a motion for a full vote to be adopted with registration number 9311-1-d-P on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law on Optimization of the Property Structure of the Operator of the Ukrainian Gas Transport System (registration number 9311-1-d 28.06.2022). Please vote. [[14:12:22]] For-16 The decision is not taken. It's a non-adopted decision. Thank you, colleagues. The bill has been completed. We only have a few announcements. [[B in m in s a l in]] I said, we've got a few announcements, and we'll keep looking as far as we can. Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze refers: in view of the mistaken vote for Bill 8176 in favour, I ask for this bill to be considered "retained" as a result of my own personal vote. And we have an announcement about the structure of Parliament. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report expulsions from the political party 'Slut of the People's Party' in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Thorochtius Bogdan Grigorovovich. And in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting expulsions from the political party's deputy faction "Slut of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call of Ukrainian national deputy Gunk Anatoli Grigorovich. Let's move on to the questions. 53 MPs requested. Arsenija Pushkarenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing the amount of State budget subsidies to local budgets to provide safe conditions for general secondary education facilities in the Zitomir region. Arsenija Puskarenka to the head of the Zitomir district military administration, the head of the Žitomir district council, the Zitomir city head, for the establishment in the territory of the Zitomir region of the Military Memorial Cemetery to commemorate the memory and burial of soldiers killed in war with the Russian Federation. Groups of National Deputies (Steps, Kunaeva and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the award of honours to the City Hero of Ukraine to the city of Gulaypole of the Pologov region of Zaporozhye. Groups of National Deputies (Paulenka, Klimpush-Cincadze and others). A total of 6 deputies) to the Chief of the Office of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of official information on the implementation of the Presidential Decree on urgent measures to unite efforts to support Ukraine from 17 May 2022 No344/2022 and the targeted use of the funds collected under the national platform "UNITED 24" for the security and defence sector, the restoration of Ukraine's infrastructure and medical assistance. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head, the Umman district assembly centre and social support for providing information on military-related citizens of municipal enterprises, institutions and organizations of the Umman City Council, its structural units (offices and offices) that are banned for periods of mobilization and time of war. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for providing information on the number of internally displaced persons placed for temporary residence in the territory of the Umman City Territorial Society on the day of the parliamentary request. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Slavicki, Shinkarenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Minister of Health, for the provision of medical equipment to the Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk City Multi-Profile Hospital. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Slavicki, Shinkarenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conduct of State financial control measures. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Slavicki, Shinkarenka) to the Attorney-General on the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Alexander Tkachenka and Antonina Slavicki to Kharkiv City Head on the use of measures for the proper provision of residential services. Antonini Slavicki and John Shinkarenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the return of the land of the forest fund to the state. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the improper provision of housing and utility services. Peter Pavlovsky to the Kharkiv City Head about providing information on the placement of advertising in Kharkiv. Groups of National Deputies (Ministers of Reason, Mikishi, and others) A total of 8 deputies) to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Information on Military Engineering Repairs, which was handed over to Ukraine by international partners at the expense of the state budget. Dmitry Razumkov and Oksana Dmitrieva to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the necessary legal measures to ensure that patients have access to cannabis-based drugs. Vladimir Kradenka to the Head of the State Security Service of Ukraine on the provision of information on the number of workers outside the state, as well as on the number of reported violations of the standards and transport events that were investigated. Maria Mezentsevsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the groundless elimination of DP "Harkovstandardmethmethology". Maria Mezentsevsky and Andrija Odarchenka to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economics of Ukraine, on the groundless elimination of DP "Harkovstandardmethmethology". Alexander Tkachenka and Antonina Slavicki to the Attorney General on the non-involvement of business activities. Paul Suska to the Head of the National Social Service, Ukraine, on providing information on the return of Ukrainian children and on measures taken to help institutional institutions, foster families, family-type children, foster families with orphans and children deprived of parental care who are temporarily abroad in the Ukrainian National Social Service. Paul Suska to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the provision of information on the measures being taken by the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine to ensure cooperation with the competent authorities of the states of temporary residence of displaced (evolved) Ukrainian citizens on the issue of safeguarding and protecting the rights of such children during the adoption of decisions by the administrative or judicial authorities of the States concerned. Vladimir Kradenka to the Head of the State Security Service of Ukraine for the purpose of providing information on court cases for appeals to the territorial authorities of Ukratrans security and to the Ukrainian security itself regarding the recognition of illegal and the lifting of orders for the dismissal, renewal of work and the collection of the average wage during the forced absence, including in connection with the improper performance of the managers of their duties or their inactivity. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Slavicki, Shinkarenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of forest land. Vladimir Kradenka to Deputy Prime Minister for the Reconstruction of Ukraine - Minister for the Development of Communities, Territories and Infrastructure of Ukraine for the provision of information on weighing devices in motion (WIM) and measurement of gauges, weights and other weighing devices in motion (WIM). Groups of National Deputies (Smart, Dmitry, and others) A total of 15 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of directing budget expenditure to entertainment content under military conditions. Irina Heratschenko and Maria Ionova to the Commissioner for Human Rights, Head of the Coordinating Council for the Treatment of Prisoners of the Ministry of Reintegration of the Preoccupied Territories of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Head of the Coordinating Council for the Treatment of Prisoners of War as regards the promotion of the search among the Russian Armed Forces in the territory of Russia and/or the Russian Federation temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, the inclusion in the list of exchange and return from the capture of the 24th Special Mechanized Brigade of the King Danil Military Section A0998, missing in special circumstances, in connection with the protection of the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine from the armed attack of the Russian Federation in the Military State of Lugansk and the Lukh region of Lukh. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine, on official response to the results of the service examination and on the use of other response measures regarding the Director-General of the National Standardization Authority, the State Enterprise "The Ukrainian Scientific Research and Training Centre for Standardization, Certification and Quality problems" of Fast Oleg Anatoliyovich in connection with his vote in favour of the representative of the Russian Federation in the election of the head of the Committee of Arctic Operations of ISO. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Dusty and others) Only 6 deputies) to the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on contributing to the resolution of the question of the death toll of the 1st, 2nd and 5th armies of the 194th Battalion of the 124th Brigade of Territorial Defense on the names of the 7360 Military Lists. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Jonah, and others) A total of 4 deputies) are under the responsibility of the Director of the State Enterprise, Parliamentary Television Council, to provide information on the creation of a content for the Telarafone "The Only News #UAraz" and the use of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Jonah, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Director General of the State Enterprise "Multimedia Platform for Innovation of Ukraine" regarding the provision of official information on the financing of the Telarafone "The Only News #UAraz", as well as the format of participation in it by the State Enterprise "Multimedia Platform for Innovation of Ukraine". Mikoli Tishchenka's temporary duty to provide information to the Director-General of the state-owned special enterprise "The Forests of Ukraine". Sophia Fedina and Jana Zinkevich to the Director of the Association with limited responsibility of MI-Ukraine for providing information on the creation of a content for the Telarafone "The Only News #UAraz" and how to use funds from the State Budget of Ukraine. The Sofias of Fedina and Vladimir Ariev to the Director General of the Society with limited responsibility "International Commercial Broadcasting Company" (ICTV) regarding the provision of information on the creation of content for the Telarafone "The Only News #UAraz" and the use of funds from the National Budget of Ukraine. Larissa Bilozer to perform duties of the Head of State Tax Service of Ukraine regarding the prolonged delay in the decision to issue a licence for the production of alcohol and non-execution of the Court’s approval by officials of the State Tax Service of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Smart, Dmitry, and others) Total 9 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for expected budget revenues in 2023 from the implementation of the Ukrainian Law (number 3219-IX) (from 30 June 2023). Alexander Tkachenka and Antonina Slavicki to the Attorney General on the use of measures to prevent violations of criminal procedural law. Anton Yatzenk to the Rector of the Cerka State University of Technology on the provision of information and copies of documents on the procedure for the assignment of the scientific title "professor" and "honorable professor" of the University of State of Technology. Anton Yatzenka to the head of the Cerka District Military Administration for the provision of information and copies of documents relating to the size of salaries, allowances, allowances, bonuses, material assistance and other payments to the head of the Cerkas District Administration, the head of the Cerkas Regional Military Administration, Igor Ivanovich, for the period from 1 March 2022 to the date of the parliamentary request. Vitalia Vojciekhowski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding information on criminal conduct. Anton Yatzenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on systematic cases of inappropriate and unjustified military conditions, the allocation of funds from the local budget of the Ummana territorial community of the Cherkas region to non-State defence, the ignoring of the President's position on the allocation of local budgets, and the need for immediate use of appropriate response measures. Groups of National Deputies (Maroza, Gnatenka, Jurchenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to clarify the procedure for obtaining compensation by persons whose homes have been destroyed as a result of the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. Anton Yatzenk to the Director of the Community Enterprise "UMANWOODANAL" of the City Council for the provision of information and copies of documents on transport and financial and economic activities of the utility "UMANWOODANAL" of the City Council of Umman and the use of fuel-oil materials for 2022-2023 years. Julius Yatzik to the Managing Director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals for Official Information. Dear colleagues! I don't know. It's the camera. Look, I'm getting what I'm getting, I'm reading it. You're not sending them to me. And we have the apparatus in charge of the Supreme Council documentary. To ask a question, I have to get it from you at least. Then call me with a letter that I didn't read the request there, for example, verbally it doesn't work. Because I don't know those questions, they don't bother me. Please proceed with the procedure of Ivan Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u270	Mr. Chairman, thank you for finally reading a large number of requests. But I would like to point out to you that for two months you did not read that question that I was directing directly to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to ask you immediately, after this meeting, to contact the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus to prepare that request for reading. That's the first one. Besides, my colleagues also say that their questions were not answered, particularly one of Mr. Hotcharyenko’s requests. Well, there were two more of my questions, too, but for about three weeks they've already been lying in your custody at the Apparatus, which involved spending money on a telethon. I'd like to ask you to work with the Apparatus to prepare them immediately for reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-10-m0.u271	Thank you, thank you. We will direct your comments to the apparatus. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, everybody, let's get everybody's notes straight. And the Lady of Light. Yours doesn't need. Did you have a request, Jaroslav Ivanovich? You don't seem to have asked. The agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. I announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We're working to win Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
