ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the ruling we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I point out that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, a recess will be announced in the plenary and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the National Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Honorable Ukrainian national deputies, it is now 532rd day of heroic Ukrainian resistance to a subtly large-scale Russian invasion. The terrorist state continues rocket terror every day with devastating attacks on the peaceful cities and villages of Ukraine. On August 7, Racist ballistic missiles fired at the center of the city of Pochrovsk Donetsk, killing 9 people, injuring more than 80 others, destroying homes and administrative buildings. All those guilty of this and other crimes against the Ukrainian people will be found and brought to justice. Unfortunately, the brutal war takes our heroes away from us, we also lose our colleagues. In the Parisian direction during the fighting with Russian invaders, the Ukrainian national deputy, Sergey Ivanovich Slabenko, was killed. We express our most heartfelt sympathy to all the Ukrainian heroes and innocently murdered. I ask you to pay tribute to the moment of silence to the immortal feats of our protectors and protectors who gave their lives for the free, sovereign, prosperous Ukraine. Let us honor the memory of the innocent victims who died as a result of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Honourable National Deputies, on August 4, 2023, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian People's Deputies, elected on the electoral side of Ukraine's National Deputies on July 21, 2019 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, the Loktion Natalija Valentinovna, included in the electoral list of the political party "Serve of the People". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a Ukrainian national deputy takes an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lokcionova Natalija Valentinovna, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u3	Thank you. Congratulations. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u4	According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of the Republic of the Republic of Loktion Natalija Valentinovna into the political party's "Serve of the People" party.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u5	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, have a signal vote prior to the commencement of the consideration of matters. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. Please vote. [[12:10:42]] For 199 Against five, hold on to three. No 118 votes. It's all the same. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Once again, I appeal to all colleagues to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session that has been decided in Parliament before an hour after the end of our work. Honorable National Deputies, a list of issues previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, are given to you. Let us go to their consideration. And we remember that we are now in the consideration of question 5431. We were interrupted by air last time, but we're moving on. From what we haven't been through, we've got Ivana Orestovna's repairs. Yes, Ivano Orestovno? Looks like you've got some left. What kind of amendments, please tell me to fix.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u6	431st, 436th, 440th, 456, 461, 671, 747 and 750.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u7	Thank you. Ivanno Orestovno, then take the time of Ivanni Orestovni. 431 revisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've come to a very interesting moment in this bill, which concerns paying for the work of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, all the employees, the deputies and so forth. I think the Ukrainians themselves can appreciate how effective and effective the Antimonopoly Committee is and how far we don't have monopolization, how much they monitor it, and in the course of the war they propose, at the level of the law, to determine the crazy wages for themselves, and to predict the various Soviet bonuses that are, for me, at this point in time, absolute absurdity. Have we solved the questions about the pay of our defenders, the payments to our military personnel who are serving today on the hottest, hottest front? I propose not to do so by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u9	Thank you, Ivana Orestovna. 431st Amendment. Wait a minute, I'll find it. 431st Amendment of Klimpush-Cincadze. She's been rejected by the committee. Dear colleagues, 431st Amendment. I ask you to vote. [[12:13:43]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Ivanno Orestovno, 436th. Please, Ivanno Orestive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u10	You know, colleagues, on with this issue. I'm sorry you didn't support the last amendment. I'll tell you that the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine estimates the cost of the Antimonopoly Committee on the condition that this law is passed by 1 billion 200 million a year. You probably won't find any law where the government's disgraceful management would try to establish and establish wages and bonuses at the level of the law. And it's all going to apply to everyone, from head to toe. And they all want to depend on the decision of the committee. And that means that effectiveness will be determined by loyalty. This is in direct contravention of the Law on the State Service of Ukraine. And I would urge all those who are involved in the reform of the public service to take this amendment seriously and to support it, because it is not possible at the level of law to approve the prizes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u11	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u12	Thank you very much. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the text of the bill, currently determine the conditions of payment for work sufficient to carry out the independent work of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. Any increase in wages, both by the Heads of the Antimonopoly Committee and by the state-authorised, is foreseen from the end of the war. So by completely dividing my esteemed colleague's position, I don't see any risk in that the terms of the pay should be the ones that guarantee the independence of the Head of the Antimonopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u13	Thank you. 436 amendments to Klimpush-Cincadze's authorship were rejected by the committee. You've heard the position of the sides. Please vote. [[12:16:01]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 440. Please, Ivanno Orestive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u14	Colleagues, that's very good, but I would like to make sure that, after all, the Antimonopoly Committee and all the fellow workers are bound to some clear measure of the effectiveness of their work. If we're to calm down about what these payments are to come into effect after the state of war, I wouldn't be happy about that. Because it seems that it is a special body that is privileged in relation to other public authorities. And that means we're giving it away and we're proposing that it be fixed at the level of the law of the bonus, the special payments and the payoffs, as we don't do in relation to other government officials. Colleagues, I ask you to support my amendment and not allow the destruction of the public service system at all. And I would like to ask the Head of the Supreme Council to pay attention to the Gul in the Hall and I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u15	Well, there are people in the hall, as opposed to previous calls. Dear colleagues, we're working on it. So, 440 amendments, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, the author of this amendment, is rejected by the committee. Please, I beg you to vote. [[12:17:46]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, next amendment. Ivanna Orestovna, 456.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head, I would like to point out that, in your competence, I would urge the national MPs to behave adequately and listen to their colleagues. I will be grateful for this work. Once again, the wages and bonuses of the Antimonopoly Committee employees. It would be, indeed, fair if we paid all the civil servants for their merits. And individual members of the Antimonopoly Committee should not receive fixed wages, and their remuneration should depend directly on the results of their activities. The next amendment will be to propose specific performance indicators to which it would be appropriate to attach the wages of representatives of the Antimonopoly Committee. Because so far we don't see any of the crazy funds that this committee has brought to the budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u17	Please take the seat of the committee. If you don't mind, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u18	Thank you. If briefly, then, indeed, the features of the work of the Antimonopoly Committee, defined by law, are such that it is a special body in the system of government, which is an independent regulator, the same as the National Bank of Ukraine, for example. Therefore, of course, the "State Service" Act does not apply to the head of this independent regulator and to the respective and state-appointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 456 amendments to Klimpush-Cincadze's authorship were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[12:19:52]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. No, before we go any further, Joanna Orestovna, yes, I ask the honourable deputies to remain calm in the hall, quiet so that we can hear our colleagues. It's really within my purview, as it is in my power to urge the people's deputies not to disseminate information according to our decision. So I'm returning to you with a request that you also speak to the members of your faction so that they don't violate Parliament's decision. I think it's going to be mutual communication that will allow us to get to a completely different level of synergy in Parliament. Thank you. Please, Ivanna Orestovna, 456 revisions. Please. Excuse me, 461.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u20	Colleagues, I'm very far from Bolshevikism and from the calls for wage cuts for some or other representatives of state institutions. But I think you can offer two criteria for AMCA to raise their wages. The first criterion is the infringements they detect, investigate, bring to an end, and for the fines imposed for these violations, they go into the budget. And the second is the number of cases that AMCA will consider in terms of allowing concentration and concerted action. These two criteria would have an impact on their wages. And just because we want to get that kind of money and that kind of pay, it's just not fair, you know?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u21	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u22	Thank you. I agree with the view that everyone is waiting for the results of the work from the Antimonopoly Committee, on the other hand, that it seems to me that the criteria for assessing their activities rather than their wages should be their performance. The wage is a guarantee that when they perform these functions they can secure their material conditions in a dignified way and not think when they consider certain or other issues, especially those involving particularly large sums, that part of these sums can be their own. So it's like a guarantee of independence, above all, that they actually do their work independently and effectively. As for the consequences of their activities, decisions will continue to be made by the relevant authorities, including you and me, on the effectiveness of the work of the Antimonopoly Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, 461 Klimpush-Cincadze Amendment. She's been rejected by the committee. You heard the arguments. Please vote. [[12:22:44]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 671. Please, Ivanno Orestive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u24	I think that this amendment is particularly appropriate in view of the news we have heard about the recent bribes of one of the majority factions. This amendment refers to the sphere of concentration. My suggestion is to refer these concentrations, which should be controlled by the Antimonopoly Committee in the event that the subjects achieve the appropriate values established by law, to cases where a single property complex or structural unit is acquired by the owner, the land of the agricultural assignment belonging to the state or municipal property. It is obvious that when a moratorium on agricultural land was lifted, the issue should still be related to the issue of the population in the field. And this should refer to the regulation of the Antimonopoly Committee. Therefore, I propose to refer to the concentration area and, in the case of acquisition of land or assets belonging to government property and those that exceed the relevant values, the Antimonopoly Committee has.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u25	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u26	Thank you very much. Amendment 671 specifies the definition of concentration as such, including the category of the single property complex, the structural subdivision of the holding subject, the land plots of the agricultural assignment, or assets belonging to the state or municipal property. According to the drafters, this would create a significant delay in the process because of legal uncertainty and, in particular, result in a redundancies in the judicial system and in the system of recourse to the state-authorized to determine the concept of concentration in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, this is a 671 amendment. Right, Ivanna Orestovna? Dear colleagues, the 671 amendment of Klimpush-Cincadze was rejected by the committee. You've heard the side arguments. Please vote. [[12:25:11]] For-75
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u28	The decision is not taken. Next amendment 747. Please, Ivanno Orestive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u29	This amendment also applies to the sphere of concentration, including the return of a standard that was once in our legislation. It says that the concentration is also considered to be controlled by AMCA in cases where the share of a product market operator exceeds 35 percent and where one of the participants in the consultation is active in this or in the adjacent market. Practice shows that we need to reverse this rule in order to avoid monopolization in one market or another. And that is why if the proportion of the subject exceeds 35 percent, I suggest that such matters be subject to the control of the Antimonopoly Committee, which may say whether it is necessary to allow appropriate concentration or whether such concentration can lead to market monopolization and appropriate action provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u30	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u31	Thank you. Indeed, there is a thought and practice that my esteemed colleague speaks about a fraction that exceeds 35 percent of the market, but there is an alternative practice that allows 35 percent of a sufficiently small and unformed market to automatically become one of the economic operators of the market as a monopolist. So it was decided by the drafters to follow the alternative practice of looking at concentration in the market, which corresponds to analogs equivalent to 8 million euros or equivalent to 150 million euros when it comes to control relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, amendment number 747 by Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna was rejected by the committee. The party's arguments were heard. Please vote. Dear colleagues, before you vote, another amendment will be Ivanna Orestovna and then we'll go to the amendments for confirmation, so please ask the national MPs to take their seats. And now it's 747 Klimpush-Cincadze. Please vote. [[12:27:36]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Ivanno Orestovno, and final your amendment to 750. Please, Ivanno Orestovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u33	My colleagues, with this amendment, I propose concentration in the media market to refer to the AMCA regulation, because I would not want us to continue the practice in time when there's only one marathon in the country, and we're not actually going to have different media tools, and we're going to have only one channel that will wash people's brains in a way that's convenient for the owner of this media. So we have to prevent this from happening with you, to prevent the situation of monopolization in the media market, and so that in Ukraine, which is heading towards European integration, we can count on media that can operate freely and provide information in a variety of ways, and our viewer could determine who he could trust. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u34	Please take the seat of the committee. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u35	Thank you very much. Indeed, there is a reference to the previous model of the functioning of the prewar media market as to the dominant position of one or the other TV channels. But the practice of defining concentration in individual markets is usually defined not by laws, but by the internal documents of the Antimonopoly Committee and the general rules of the free market, and by the general rules of concentration as such. Thus, the amendment was rejected in order not to violate this approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 750 amendments by Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna were rejected by the committee. You've heard the side arguments. Please vote. [[12:29:43]] For-74. The decision is not taken. The amendment remains rejected. Dear colleagues, we've been through all the adjustments. No one wants to put up any more. Then let's move on to the amendments to confirm. The situation is what I have. Ivana Orestovna’s two amendments are 1670, 1671. Right, Ivanna Orestovna, will you bet? Wait a second. Then two amendments were made by the Cubans Stepan Ivanovich. Will he bet the same? He's going to be the one, you won't be, will you? Then Ivan Stepanovich of Cuba is going to amend 1670 and 1671. After that, Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich will make five amendments: 607-y, 608-y, 616-y, 632-y, 635-y. And then instead of the 29 amendments that Julia Volodymyrna wanted to make, she's going to take five minutes, and then we're going to vote. Do you understand, colleagues? Then let's get started. Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, amendment 1670. Please, Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u37	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, these two amendments were also made at the committee meeting, because the 1670 amendment on State aid, exclusion from the Act on State Aid to Hostages, is contrary to EU law. This was confirmed at a meeting of the Committee by a representative of the European Union. Under the Association Agreement, articles 262-264 view local support as State aid, including proposed changes, as distorting competition. The amendment should be submitted for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u38	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u39	Thank you. I agree with my distinguished colleague, Stepan Ivanovic, that this amendment is followed by the position of one of our distinguished partners from the European Union, from the European Commission. And even though the committee has taken these amendments into account, if they don't go through, in our opinion, this will, let's say, help strengthen our relationship with our European colleagues and speed up our European integration path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u40	Dmitry Andriyovich, let's say, without hiccups, these amendments, in principle, are logical not to support. Dear colleagues, then let's make 1670 amendments, it's counted by committee, but it was just a discussion, you've heard the arguments, and the committee head said that he basically supports the position not to take this amendment into account. I'm putting 1,670 amendments on confirmation. Please vote. [[12:32:50]] For-29 The decision is not taken. No correction will be counted. Declined. Ivan Stepanovich, will you be speaking now? Please, 167th. Ivan Stepanovich. Stepan Ivanovich. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u41	Dear Head, I would like to say that articles 262 and 264, which consider local support to be state aid, can distort competition. We discussed both on the committee and on the working group during three meetings. At the same time, the granting of powers to the Antimonopoly Committee is inherent to law enforcement agencies, which do not comply with article 19 of the Constitution on the obligation of the authorities to provide information to the Antimonopoly Committee, including a confidential one. Also, the project does not take into account the tasks of the household, namely article 252. 1 The Economic Code of Procedure, using domestic courts to deal with the problems of the Antimonopoly Committee. We talked about this last time at a meeting and made suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u42	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u43	Thank you very much. I agree with the thought and arguments made by my distinguished colleague Stephen Ivanovich Kubi. And it makes sense not to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, you have heard that 1,671 amendments are taken into account by the committee, but the discussion shows that the hall can make a different decision. So I'm putting 1,671 amendments on confirmation. Please vote. [[12:34:47]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Please continue, Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich. Amendment 607. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u45	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. We all understand that the country needs an independent professional Antimonopoly committee, but it certainly does not have to become a repressive body. In this regard, 607 amendments, it poses a very high risk because it defines the term "control", which essentially allows the Antimonopoly Committee to intervene in any farm contract between two operators and to interpret it as a way of relations between operators that contain the rights and duties of the parties, and so on. This is clearly a very dangerous amendment, and I do not think it can be maintained, for we will severely limit the rights of market subjects to enter into agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u46	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u47	Thank you very much. Even if I agree with the position of a reputable opponent, I have to say that 607a is a reforming amendment that defines too many terms for this bill, among them the only property complex, among them the State Register of Hosting Subjects, among them concentration, objects, verification, full-functioning economic activity and so on, and so on. If we fail it, it will make the document itself and the reform itself not functional. Therefore, it is a great request to support this amendment with a green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. The amendment is based on confirmation, it's a 607 amendment. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. 607 amendments, it's counted by the committee, now it's on confirmation. The head of the committee, reporting, asks the committee to leave the decision, leave the amendment to be taken into account. 607 amendment for confirmation. Please vote. [[12:37:30]] For the 250. Decision taken. The edit remains counted. 608 revisions. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u49	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman of the Committee, with regard to the 608 amendments that I see a danger. There is, there is, there is a single property complex that uses the new concept of increasing market presence. But there is no clear determination and definition of what it is in the bill. And this, in my opinion, allows the Antimonopoly Committee to interpret this growth and, in fact, expand its penal functions, which will have very negative consequences for business. So I would ask you not to support this. As far as I'm concerned, it's very dangerous for business.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u50	Briefly 608 revisions, committee. Please, Dmitri Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u51	Thank you. This amendment really defines the category of market presence. But I'll remind you that we didn't support the amendment that defines the clear percentage of this presence in the market that was offered as 35 percent. Instead, the bill provides for a minimum transaction volume of at least 8 million. Therefore, we do not think that any growth without going beyond this transaction will lead to problems for the owners. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, 608 amendments. It's considered editorially. At the same time, Alexy Yuryovich Kucherenko puts the committee’s position on such a decision, the committee’s decision to confirm it. I'm putting 608 amendments in the editor's office, as it's taken into account by the editorial committee, for confirmation. Please vote. [[12:39:27]] For 257 Decision taken. Next amendment 616. Alexi Yuryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u53	Mr. Head, I'm asking you, I can see that he won't vote, and so I'd like to be given a minute and I'll take three of the rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u54	Please, Alexi Juryovich, one minute of the talk, and then we'll go to the vote. And Julia Volodymyrna is five minutes, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u55	One minute. Thank you. Dear Chairman, the honourable ones are present! Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. This is certainly a very important bill for the development of a competitive environment, and we understand how important it is, it's not just a slogan, it's really one of the key national priorities today, because without it there will be no involvement of investment and no restoration of Ukraine. You can draw lots of good drawings, great presentations and so on, we understand that the effect is going to be wheat. In this situation, I would just like to wish the Antimonopoly Committee to work effectively, despite political pressure from different offices, on phone calls, on advice from certain offices, because sometimes there are questions that you don't have enough reforms and laws to really create a competitive environment and dominate the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is Julia Volodymyr. Then we vote on this law as a whole, a very important European integration law. So please don't be distracted. Julius Volodymyrno, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u57	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, two trends right now I would just like to emphasize that we know what we're doing in this room, including today. First. It's such a systematic, consistent work to turn Ukraine into a police state. I think you're talking to business all over the country, and I think business has already explained to you that they are now in criminal matters on their own, that today almost every significant entrepreneurial structure has a rush of testing from the power structures, from criminal cases, from the funds arrested, and, as a result, from the corruption requirement presented, what is needed to be done so that a strong structure leaves a particular enterprise in peace. I think you should go to Ukraine and listen to the uncensored words that are mentioned today in Parliament, because people in the country think that everything they do with their businesses, that everything they do against them is Parliament created. You're in the middle of people today, MPs, you know, like hell is coming, because no one's connecting what you're taking with some verticals that give you commands. What are you doing with the Antimonopoly Committee? You're not just making a force structure, because the force structures, they're still working within the Criminal Procedural Code, the Criminal Code, where there are any procedures, there's a court decision, there's something that even entrepreneurs can rely on. What you are now giving in this law, you are doing, first, the Antimonopoly Committee, which will consider what to do at all, because the law is not defined, in which case, and what the Antimonopoly Committee will do. This is the first one. The other one. Imagine, without any procedures laid down in this law, the Antimonopoly Committee is allowed to break into your home, into your offices, into your warehouses, and practically even into the warehouses, offices and dwellings of your loved ones, your family, is allowed without any court decisions to listen to all of your conversations, track down all of yours without excluding communication on the Internet system. I don't know what you're doing, maybe you've decided to finish with Ukrainian entrepreneurs. You realize that what's written here has absolutely nothing to do with the Criminal Procedural Code. So all the force they're going to do, as it says in article 44-1, they're going to be doing their own internal decisions. I don't know where there is such a thing in the world. It's not just going to be a force structure, it's going to be a force structure that works without any rules or rules that they come up with. I think it's even more supported by some cloudy salary. This is how the state determines the priority. What's the priority? The head of the Antimonopoly Committee will be set not just a salary of 30 minimum levels of living, but additional salaries, bonuses, everything else. I mean, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, his deputies, the head of the Apparatus, the head of the department, and so on, there's going to be a salary of 150 to 200,000 dollars per month while you pay the doctors for an advance payment of 20,000 dollars! Tell me, what are these priorities? An absolutely corrupt structure is created without rules, restrictions, repressive functions and even a salary that exceeds the wages of our soldiers on the front and our medics who save them. What the hell are you doing in this room, can you tell? Where is your conscience, morality, and honor? I urge you not to vote for this frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, we have concluded a discussion of this important bill. Let's move on to making a decision. Ah, Ivanna Orestovna. Ivanno Orestovno, please excuse me. It's a Euro-Integration Bill. Yeah, two minutes. Head of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the European Union, Ivan Orestovna Klimpus-Cincadze. And after that, we're moving on. Ivanno Orestovno, please. After this speech, we shall proceed to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u59	Colleagues, the committee considered a draft law prepared for the second reading, edited on July 25 at its meeting yesterday, August 8, and we concluded that the draft bill, which was further prepared for the second reading, did not generally conflict with the regulations and directives of the European Union. At the same time, the bill contained two standards, which were direct. More faithfully, there were rules that directly conflicted with European Union law and with Ukraine's international and legal obligations, which were taken under the Association Agreement. I am glad that the hall supported our initiative, which was sounded by Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba, and in fact refused to do so. And today there are no direct contradictions to European Union law in this bill. At the same time, we feel as a committee that this bill would require further development, particularly with a view to bringing terminology to the requirements of articles 262 and 264 of the Association and Comprehensive Accounting Agreement of Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure 139/2004 on approaches to the determination of concentrations. And I would like to ask the Main Committee to consider clarifying these rules, perhaps another bill, so that we can actually carry out all our obligations in the most efficient way possible. And another thing I'd like to say, colleagues. Now we're doing with you the work that we were going to do to really start in Ukraine to form institutions that would provide real competition and actually fight oligarhat, and not just the unscrupulous tool that this room adopted in the form of a delligarchic bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u60	Joanna Orestovna, please tell me the last sentence, was she in your committee's decision? So that's the individual. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much, all those who report to the committees, regardless of which committee this is, report within the limits of what the committee has entrusted to you, and do not engage in political speeches from the rostrum. For that you have minutes given to your factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm not commenting, I'm explaining the Rules. And you don't have to yell at me here! Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine (registration number 5431). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:50:03]] For 258. Decision taken. Show by factions which factions fight for European integration. Thank you. Hello. Dear colleagues, next. From the procedure? Heratchenko's procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Head, you are just like everyone else in this room, and we ask you not to apply double standards to the MEPs of European Solidarity. I want to inform my colleague that on all the advisory boards, something from the single Committee on European Integration is not just involving the committee's head, because it's from the EC, but also from Mr. Halasyuk, to be "watcher." Galajchuka, I'm sorry to be seen by "servants." Next. Why is there no law banning the Moscow Church in order today? "Pasha Mercedes" was released for ransom from S.I.S.O., and we can't close this Ephesus branch in Ukraine? Next. And we still don't have freedom of speech, and Mr. Shufrich's Committee of Freedom of Speech is in charge. We demand that Mr. Shufrich be removed from this office and set up a normal Committee on Freedom of Speech. We will not allow you to unite him with the Human Rights Committee. It is worth removing a partial function from the Committee of Humanitarian Policy, as it has been throughout the years.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u62	Please, Galajczuk, the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u63	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to comment on what has just been said about the viewers. I understand that Slang has already been used to using our political opponents, but in this case it was particularly sad to hear this because the Committee on European Integration has always been such an arbitrator, where decisions have been made unanimously, and in fact, in these decisions of the Committee we never allowed anyone the right to raise politically the issues relating to Euro-integration in order not to create further problems in adopting and so complex laws. So I would very much ask my colleagues to refrain from political statements in those statements that you're accompanying those or other bills that are extremely important for the process of European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u64	Dear colleagues. The railroad from the procedure? Please proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u65	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm addressing you. I have great respect for you as a lawyer, and I would very much like the next time a bill is put to the vote, we have no idea who is fighting for or who is the biggest Euro-Integrator. I'll explain my position. I think this bill, which was passed, is bad. I can tell you why for a long time. But there's nothing reasonable about taking the most stringent standards from the European Union and now implementing them and then making them an independent body. We have to do it the other way around. That's why I'm just talking. You don't want to make politics, but please don't let us conclude on individual factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u66	Jaroslav Ivanovich, you see. Got it. Okay. Let's move on. Honorary colleagues, on July 31, 2023, a statement came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the National Deputy of Ukraine, Holodov Andrija Ivanovich, on the composition of his parliamentary powers pursuant to article 81, paragraph 1, of the second part of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered the application. For this reason, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has registered an appropriate draft of Decree 9575, which we are now moving on to. I am voting on the proposal to discuss this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:54:16]] For 247 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. The report is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenk. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich, in 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, our committee at its meeting has considered the statement made by the national deputy, Mr. Andriy Ivanovich, on the formation of parliamentary powers. As a result of the committee’s consideration of the matter, a decision was made, and an order was made to terminate the mandate of the People’s Deputies of the Netherlands on a timely basis. The committee requests that it be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u68	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for the representatives of the MP factions and groups. Two in, two in, and two in, against. Please. Please give the floor to the national deputy Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u69	Please pass the word to Mazurash.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u70	Mazurash Georgy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, since Andrew’s wife and relatives live in the district I represent in Parliament, I know some details that are not publicly known. Today, when I consider this question, I would like to draw attention to the fact that after the beginning of the full - scale invasion, our colleague, Andriy Holdov, was in Kiev. And since March, and during the year, we used to go to District 203 together to the region of Cherniewec, where his family was. Then he left when his family moved abroad, including the need to be treated, and he had already gone abroad. And who doesn't know, in the spring of this year, our colleague had been operating abroad. It's also non-public information, just like he was in public helping the U.S.S.A., and because of the circumstances, I've faced situations where, for example, I've been helping him find people who have already imported cars from abroad to the U.S.S.A. or when he was filling with his colleagues overseas business foundations to support the U.S.S.A. -- he was doing it in public. But I think that when we look at this issue, we need to know. I respect his position: in order to deal with his treatment and the treatment of children, which is particularly important, he has decided to set up a mandate, and that is his right. I'll vote yellow. And I sincerely wish that in the future we had MPs in Parliament, and now, and in the future, let's just say, no worse and no worse moral qualities than that of Andrew Cold, then we would have a much better situation and a country as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u72	Please, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Head, please give the floor to Pottery Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u74	Please, Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u75	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. We just heard from a colleague from the "Serve of the People," who is a great man, Andrew Cold, well, just now, I'm just gonna cry that he's leaving us. And I want to remind you a little bit about who this is. This is a friend of the Medvedchuk family, their wife's cousin. He's 22 on the "Serve of the People" list. After the election, he's the deputy head of the key committee on finance, tax policy, in which he promoted the interests of his own tobacco business, because he's the boss of the mafia network in Kiev, tobacco outlets, and more than that. The cold, I say again, the cold was caught by Radio Freedom to advance its personal interests, and it was all right, it was kept in Parliament. Cold left the country during the coronavirus pandemic. And when President Zelensky urged everyone to return, Cold flew to Cyprus and stayed there. And that's only been known by journalists. Then, in January of this year, he left Ukraine altogether for six months. And nothing happened, no one was cleaning him up, full of silence. Well, there's no half a year's national deputy, something very busy. Now, when the public announcement began again, when the media raised the subject and the scandal began, the Cold came out and now they want to make a look, and what is the Cold? So you take a friend of Medvedchuk first, you let him make millions, you buy real estate in Vienna, in Cyprus -- everywhere, he falls out of the country during the pandemic, he falls out of the country during the war, and now you tell us, he's good. I greet you, it's fantastic, it's a fantastic Servant of the People, just like everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, and after that. You won't, will you? Dear colleagues, we've finished the discussion, we're going to the vote. The discussion is over, please prepare for the vote. In accordance with part two of paragraph 1 and part four of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Decree (registration number 9575) on the permanent cessation of the parliamentary powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Andrija Ivanovich. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[13:00:43]] For 308. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. It's been decided. Out of procedure, please, Motovilovec.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u77	During our study of the chart for the second reading of Law 8316, we found disagreements. We ask the committee to return and finalize the bill and now put it to a vote, change the order of the law and remove Bill 8316 from today. I ask you to put this question to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand your offer. The next bill we're supposed to have is 8,316. Andriy Viktorovich Motovilovac suggests that we change the agenda and take it out of consideration and move it to the next day. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote for this offer by Andri Viktorovich. Please vote. [[13:01:52]] For 260 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to the next one. And then we have a whole bunch of bills that we don't have to discuss, so please focus. Bill 9509: Draft Appointment Order in 2023 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Young Scientists – Doctors of Science. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the Bill 9509. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:02:33]] For 312 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, the next one without discussion is Project 8356. This is a draft law amending certain legislation to ensure that traffic safety rules are studied. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:03:08]] For 309 Decision taken. I'd like to make a proposal to adopt the bill as a basis for registration number 8356. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:03:30]] For 303 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, no further discussion. Bill registration number 9139. This is a draft of the Grapes and Grapes Act. I'm proposing to include it in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:01]] For 311 Decision taken. I propose to adopt the bill of registration in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure 9139. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:28]] For 308. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next, no discussion, no amendments, 9129. This is a bill amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Museums and Museums on how museums can be further used if museums are reorganized. I propose a second reading and, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Law, registration number 9129. Please vote. [[13:05:06]] For 304 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, next bill 9384. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on telemedicine. I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the bill, registration number 9384. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:05:47]] For 311 Decision taken. Next Bill 9405. This is a draft of the Act on Amendments and Recognition, which has become invalid, some legislation in Ukraine in connection with the completion of quarantine established to prevent the spread in Ukraine of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2. I propose to adopt draft Law 9405 on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:06:29]] For 306 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill is also not discussed in 9030. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the development of wine production and the simplification of small-scale production of wine products. I propose to adopt draft Law 9030 on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:07:05]] For 314 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Next Bill 9261. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to reopen cases concerning the disciplinary responsibility of judges and to ensure that the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors of the High Council of Justice works. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy, Denis Vejeslavovich Maslova. We're going to have one correction for confirmation from Fatherland and three minutes from Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenka. Yeah? One amendment. Please, Sergei. Oh, three minutes first. Okay. Three minutes, Sergey Volodymyrovich. You take your place. And then one amendment. Please don't break up. In three minutes, we're voting, Your Honor. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u79	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Two years ago, you passed a law in this room, taking it to a constitutional body called the High Council of Justice, a mandate to bring judges to disciplinary responsibility, and actually handing it over to the so-called disciplinary inspectors. Well, that first contradicts the Constitution. Because the Supreme Council of Justice should apply such powers. But it's not. It's very, very bad, but there's another bad thing. For two years, and we've warned you about this, you can't bring judges into disciplinary responsibility. So today, a drunken judge who knocks down a national guard and kills him to death can be brought to criminal responsibility, for these powers remain with the High Council of Justice, and it is impossible to release the judge or even bring him to justice because discipline is handed over to disciplinary inspectors. And this has been happening for more than two years in the country. Sadly, this law does not immediately restore discipline, nor does it restore discipline. We're putting it back two, two and a half months, maybe three months before the High Council of Justice draws the judges who broke the law to disciplinary responsibility. That's why we're in Fatherland for the disciplinary function to be restored immediately. This requires that Committee Amendment 218 not be supported by the Hall, and then the day after the signing of the Law, the Supreme Council of Justice will be able to bring those judges who have failed to carry out their duties to justice. Not to wait another month, two, three, or six years, but the day after this law became effective, the Supreme Council of Justice will be able to do so. I think two years, two and a half years is quite enough to live when judges feel absolute impunity. Any impunity corrupts. And even those decent people who remain in the judicial system, still realizing that there is no disciplinary responsibility, are depraved in one way or another. So in Fatherland, we are ready to support this bill if the disciplinary function of the High Council of Justice is restored immediately. That's why I'm addressing you, Mr. Head, I'm asking for confirmation of Committee amendment 218, and I insist that the room does not support this amendment. This will not change the law itself, the law will remain and work. It won't do any harm, but it will.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u80	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u81	Thank you, colleagues. The position of the committee is set. This is taken into account, and I ask everyone to press the green button and support the edit. The next is a bill that changes selection procedures for disciplinary inspectors. An open choice, a real competition, and the best and most professional people will be able to become disciplinary inspectors. So, really, with this bill, we're finally restoring the disciplinary function of the High Council of Justice, and the next bill, it's going to be the next one in the daytime, we're just changing the selection procedure for disciplinary inspectors. So, colleagues, I urge everyone to quickly reinstate the disciplinary function of the High Council of Justice, press now and support this green bill and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, the 218th amendment, is written by Maslova Denis Vejacheslavovich. She's a committee member. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko asks the committee to make such a decision to take this amendment into account for confirmation. People's deputies, correction for confirmation, please vote. [[13:12:44]] For 234 Let's see the factions. The amendment remains to be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to reopen cases concerning disciplinary responsibility of judges and to ensure that the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors of the High Council of Justice works. Bill 9261 registration number. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:13:33]] For 291 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. The next bill related to him is 9483. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to change the status and order of the service of disciplinary inspectors of the High Council of Justice. And alternative to it is 9483-1, 9483-2. I'm proposing to include these bills in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:14:14]] For 290 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:14:35]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Two in, two in. Will you start with the report from the committee's position? Two-in-a-two-in? Let's do two in a row, two in a row. Please register, two for, two for this bill. Then we vote. Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mihajlovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u84	Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u85	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. It's an important law, because it allows you to really work for the High Council of Justice and hold a competition for new disciplinary inspectors. We're 2.5 years out of the High Council of Justice, and it's got to work. But unfortunately, friends, we have other organs that don't work at all, including a key organ like the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. First of all, I want to ask, why aren't there hours of questions to the government? Why can't government officials be present for the few days we've been sitting here to answer our questions? But it's the most important and shameful thing that's happened right now. The point is that you and I have adopted the Law, in which I have the honor of being co-author and many of you are my co-authors there, on military leave, on military payback. Under this law, by July 30, the Cabinet of Ministers was obliged to make changes to its order, in its Order on Payments of Money and Military Supplements. By 30 July! And he just didn't. I didn't do the law, I didn't do my job. And now tens of thousands of Ukrainians who are fighting for our state, all of the Nazis, all the border guards didn't get a penny of combat pay in July. None! Those who give their lives for the country today have not received a supplement. Today we have August 8th, they were no longer received in July. And so far, Kabmin can't look at it. Yesterday in Kabmin, they were considering a new technical regulation for the ecodesign of household washing machines. That's what they have time for, there's no time for Ukrainian military time. It's a disgrace! This must be stopped immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u86	Please, Francis Igor Pavlovich, "Serve of the People" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u87	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please give Denis Maslov a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u88	Please, Dennis Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u89	Thank you, colleagues. This is, as I said, the next bill, which is related to the previous one, which we have voted on today thanks to all of you. This bill is designed to establish, in fact, competitive, transparent, open procedures for the role of disciplinary inspectors, i.e. those who will carry out the initial examination of disciplinary complaints against judges in Ukraine. Of course, trust in these people and their level of competence should be quite high. It's this bill that we're predicting these conditions. We had a committee decision. Well, the decision of the Main Committee was to support the alternative bill 9483 marked 2, which we're actually asking you to do. The committee quickly drafted the bill and prepared it for its first reading. I think that the committee will continue the speedy drafting of this bill for the second reading, so that we can initiate competitive selection procedures as quickly as possible, and as soon as possible they have been carried out as disciplinary inspectors of the High Council of Justice, as I have said, have come people with high ethical, moral, professional competences and no doubt about their integrity. In doing so, we will ensure that disciplinary complaints are properly filed regarding possible violations by judges in Ukraine. And the last thing I'm going to remind you is that for today, there are almost 10,000 such complaints in the High Council of Justice. And I'm sure your voters are asking you to do that. So please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u90	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" Group. Then Krilenko Ivan Grigorovich and then Juršin Jaroslav Romanovich, and we go to the vote. Please, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u91	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, will the adoption of this law increase transparency regarding the activities of judges, including their bearing and disciplinary responsibility? Yes, of course. Will this matter be settled permanently? Sadly, no. But that's a step forward. We have to get people closer to the appointment process today, and it is desirable to elect judges at least for the first instance, then people will know who they choose and who they trust in their destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. After that, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich and we move on to the vote. Julia Volodymyrna, I understand, right? Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u93	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. As soon as you and I have discussed the previous drafts, what's happening with the Antimonopoly Committee, which is turning the country further into a police state. And now you're looking at a bill that essentially deprives Ukraine of its sovereignty by gradually replacing the country's constitutional authorities with unconstitutional, with the involvement of foreigners who are in principle not subject to the laws of Ukraine. Dear friends, what are you voting for now? You have previously ruled that the Supreme Council of Justice, which examines all disciplinary actions against judges, is composed of most foreigners. So you've essentially outsourced all the functions of the High Council of Justice. And then now, after you've formed the High Council of Justice in this way, you're still planning to form a completely unconstitutional body now, disciplinary inspectors who will be formed essentially by foreigners, and now disciplinary inspectors in you, who have nothing in common with the Constitution at all, will be preparing a conclusion for each judge, and this conclusion will be required for adoption by the Higher Council of Justice. Why do you need to have a constitutional body, if any, disciplinary inspectors, who will be, including foreigners, make decisions required by the Higher Council of Justice? What are you doing? It's an anti-constitutional law that destroys the country's sovereignty. Vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction. One minute. And let's move on to making a decision. Please invite the deputies into the hall to take their seats. Please, Jurchishin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u95	First of all, I'd like to say that the disciplinary inspector can only be a Ukrainian, and there won't be any foreigners among the disciplinary inspectors. So there's some kind of invalidity here in the previous speech. But now it's about constitutionality. It's a fully constitutional procedure that we already have in many institutions, it provides for a commission to compete as an additional filter of foreigners, and it's a normal, adequate practice that now yields maximum results, so thank you very much for the speedy development committee, for having a transparent competitive procedure that no one likes, needs to support and work quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges and certain laws of Ukraine concerning the change of status and the formation of the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors of the Supreme Council of Justice, the registration number of Bill 9483-2. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:25:29]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have agreed on the Conciliation Council to cut the double lines so that we can look at them together. I'm proposing to cut in half the deadline for proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of Bill 9483-2. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:26:05]] For 214 The decision is not taken. The next question is not discussed. 9581. This is a draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments and governments. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, I'm sorry, we're having a discussion. I must have been misspelled to discuss it. Of course, with discussion. Then I am simply announcing: a draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments and governments of foreign states, international organizations and their parliamentary assemblies on the intentions of the Russian Federation to hold illegal elections in the temporarily occupied territories of Donetské, Luhansk, Zaporez and Herson regions of Ukraine (register No. 9581). I'm proposing to include this draft decision in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:27:10]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two in, two in, against immediately, will Pusharenko report? Are you going to report? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, well, can you or will you? Please, Pushkin, then two in a row, two in a row. An important decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u97	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! You know, the Russian Federation is planning to hold elections in the temporarily occupied territories of our Donetské, Lugansk, Zaporezki, Herson region. Well, objectively, it's dark besie, because no democracy and no free referendums or elections in an area where there's violence, where there's lawlessness, where people are tortured and taken to the basement, can be. So it's clear that this election is not recognized by any of the world's societies because these territories are occupied, and this is a direct violation of absolutely international law. But, nevertheless, Russia is trying to create visibility in these areas of some kind of legal regime, it's trying to play the election, but we understand very well that directly there today are the governors of the Kremlin, and all the so-called elections and candidates are terrorists who kill and torture our citizens every day. That is why this statement, which the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation considered at its meeting on August 1, 2023, and unanimously supported and recommended that you, honourable colleagues, vote to parliaments and governments of foreign states, international organizations and their parliamentary assemblies on the intentions of the Russian Federation to conduct illegal elections and temporary occupations of our areas. This is an important point for the world’s society not to recognize these choices, to condemn them. And once again, the annexation of our territories, and these so-called elections, is a violation of international law. And it is very symbolic that when the so - called referendum on self - determination took place in Herson in the fall of 2022, Harrison was released two months later. And I am convinced that after the so-called elections, all our territories will also be occupied by our Armed Forces of Ukraine. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two for, two against the faction and the group to speak on this project. Please, Kowalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u99	Please give the word to Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u100	Feder Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u101	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, the Russian Federation from the first days of the 14th year and from the first days of the full-scale invasion on February 24th last year systematically, consistently, arrogantly and cynically violates, and this demonstrates, frankly, international law in all spheres. One such example of systematic and gross violations of international law is the Russian Federation’s intention to hold elections in temporarily occupied areas of Ukraine. Russia is trying to subvert any kind of legitimacy under its crimes, under its terrorist actions against Ukraine, against the Ukrainian people and against our sovereign territory, which will never be recognized as being annexed by the Russian Federation. And by the way, I would call on all my colleagues during the official speeches, during any official action, to talk only about the attempted annexation as a crime, another crime of the Russian Federation that she commits against the Ukrainian state. We don't admit that no one in the world recognizes any territory that is annexed. It's an attempt, a bold, brutal attempt to legitimize its criminal acts of terrorism. Therefore, the entire civilized world, all the international organizations to which the Ukrainian Parliament refers, and, I am convinced that we unanimously support this appeal by the Supreme Council, must understand, no action by the Russian Federation that it tries to justify its aggressive criminal acts in Ukraine will ever be recognized. There is no, there is no, and there will be no subject who can carry out any of its purposes that are provided for by international instruments. So the faction of the political party "The Servant of the Nation" will certainly vote in favour of this decree. And I urge everyone to support this decision unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u102	Please move on, Nicorac. It's Heratchenko. Please, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u103	The Gdynia State, which has been transformed into the Russian Federation, claims that the elections will take place in territories that are enshrined in the Russian Constitution. But it's probably the only state in the world that has a region in its constitution that has nothing to do with it. And the Ukrainian Armed Forces are proving the best of the Kremlin every day that there are no Zaporzik, Herson, Donetsk regions in Russia today. And in Luhansk, we also have heavy fighting. And we thank the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which prove that both Crimea and Donetsk and Lugansk and, of course, Zaporozka and Herson are Ukraine. And it's very important that you and I work together on a parliamentary scale with our partners, that non-recognizance of these elections should lead to increased sanctions against the Putin regime. All of us followed closely the meeting that was now taking place in Saudi Arabia. We welcome the expansion of the countries that have joined this dialogue. And it is very important for these meetings to focus on strengthening sanctions against Russia, including to involve countries that are helping Russia today to circumvent sanctions by receiving dual-dealing goods. You know, but it's important that not only Russian thieves and murderers are punished, but also collaborators. Maria Ionova and I have only just returned from Kharkushina and Donetskina, and there we are asked by residents who survived the occupation so that the DBR will not be a nightmare today, but have finally taken part with the WBU Collaborants, who have actually helped the enemy, by creating lists of ATO participants, their families, Ukrainian families, so that all these people involved in the deportation of Ukrainian children, to the illegal passporting of Ukrainians, and this is a crime of genocide, will be punished. And we, as the Supreme Council, which passed the Law of Collaboration, have this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u104	Please give the floor to Mr. Navejchenka Valentina Aleksandrovitch. Please, the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u105	Dear Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen, our dear protectors! Of course, we support such a determination, but surely our appeal to the entire world with the main media: in the territory of Ukraine, Zaporzik, Hersonsk, Donetsk and Lugansk region there is a humanitarian disaster caused by the Russian temporary occupation. This time. In the territory of our native areas, these four areas, there is an ecocidal, ecological catastrophe. And that's only one reason: Russia and its aggression. In these areas, occupations are taking place, along with collaborators and executioners who are being introduced by a Russian aggressor in Hersonian, Zaporozhye, and before that, by Donetskina and Luganskina. Not elections, not elections, but executions of cataclysm and coercion by the weapons and humiliation of those citizens of Ukraine who suffer from temporary occupation. Yes, such a determination and the "Paternity" faction, like the entire hall, will support it. But we also believe that more insistence, especially in the OSCE and the UN, should be required to require international sanctions, bilateral sanctions against Russia, Putin, its regime and its industries to be here and now. Yes, we are going to China, Brazil, those countries, India, which have not yet been identified, it is time to identify. And the reason now for the Ukrainian Parliament's determination and determination to stand firm here and now for the sanctions to be imposed. It's not elections, it's not quasi-elections, it's not Russian propaganda, it's the truth, it's the Ukrainian position that this is our land, and we're going to hold the election after the victory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u106	Please, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, Trust Group. Please. He's handing it over to Bakunka, I understand, isn't he? Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u107	Thank you. Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is addressing all parliaments, governments of various countries, and also intergovernmental organizations with this claim, in fact, not to recognize the legitimacy of these deliberate crimes as an occupying party, namely the holding of elections in Ukrainian, unfortunately temporarily occupied territories. And we all understand here that, unfortunately, these temporarily occupied Ukrainian territories of Donetskina, Lugansk, Hersonish, Zaporozhye and Crimea are actually waiting for only one future -- this is liberation thanks to our Armed Forces of Ukraine and, in fact, restoration there in every town, in every village of Ukrainian local government. In fact, these pseudo-dovers that the occupying terrorist authorities are planning to do in our Ukrainian territories, we want to believe that this crime is going to be a ready list of those collaborators, those criminals who are working against our country. And they will certainly be condemned by both international courts and, in fact, destroyed by our courageous Armed Forces of Ukraine. I also want to thank the Ukrainian guerrillas today, whose courageous work makes no collaborator feel at ease. I would like to thank the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who are able to recover every inch of our Ukrainian territory at a heavy cost. And we want to thank the international partners today for this help to our Armed Forces of Ukraine. We believe that we are all together because of our help partners.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this very important decision. Let's move on to making a decision. Please be prepared. I propose to accept, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments and governments of foreign states, international organizations and their parliamentary assemblies on the intentions of the Russian Federation to hold illegal elections in the temporarily occupied territories of Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporezki and Herson region of Ukraine. (registration number 9581) Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:40:04]] For 287 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill without discussion. Please note this. This is a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws regarding the membership of the Ukrainian National Deputy in the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is 9521, 9521-1. I'm proposing to include these two bills in the agenda of the day session. [[13:40:48]] For 271 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make an offer. I'm told you're two minutes away. Then let's make a decision on the simplified procedure. Two minutes, and we're voting. I'm going to propose a vote to consider these bills in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:41:24]] For 233 Decision taken. Please, two minutes, Hotcharyenko, and we're voting. Who? Heratchenka, please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, this is a case where we would like to thank the co-authors of this decision, particularly Mr. Motovilovac, for the right decision that expands the possibility for opposition factions to participate in the interim commission of inquiry. But why did such a thing happen that we today need to allow deputies to work in two TSCs? Because this Council, the first in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament, "begets" a million TSKs. But what's important to note is that TSC is always a mechanism for opposition, for control of power. In our country today, "servants" have all the power: the majority in Parliament, only the "servants" formed government, all the power structures -- 200 percent of their prosecutors, D.B.I. leaders, other structures. But little power, little power! And "ministers" create TSCs that lead themselves. And we see what it's becoming. Yesterday, the whole country finally heard and learned the name and face of such a national MP, Gunka, who led the TSC in corruption, after investigating corruption with land in government institutions. And he led this corruption himself because he was caught in a bribe -- $85,000 -- about the land that belongs to the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences. He went on, and he blocked by decree his law, which was passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the proper use of these lands. We urge you not to violate parliamentaryism. The TSC is a mechanism of opposition. Please create a TSC - you have to lead the opposition. We're investigating these cases. And don't "fruit" the TSC for the papers. They have to work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to adopt bill registration number 9521-1, this is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws regarding the membership of the Ukrainian People's Deputies in the interim commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:44:21]] For 276 Decision taken. I propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the membership of the Ukrainian national deputy in the interim commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 9521-1). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:44:53]] For 283 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Next, 9406. This is a draft decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the comprehensive settlement of State social security guarantees to veterans, Protectors and Protectors of Ukraine, members of their families, members of families of the deceased (dead) Defenders and Protectors of Ukraine (registration number 9406). Dear colleagues, we have an agreement, two minutes of pottery and a vote. Please, Hotcharenko, two minutes. And we vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u111	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. We are now making a decision to create a temporary commission of inquiry, which is important, according to the defenders, to the defenders of Ukraine. Friends, but I'm paying attention and I'm addressing, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, I'm asking you to make an official letter to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and request them immediately (immediate!) Amendments to the Military Service Payment Order, which he was obliged to make by 30 July of this year, did not. And as a result of this, tens of thousands of people, all of the Nazis, all the border guards, all the other authorities, who are subordinated to the IMF system that are today defending Ukraine with weapons in their hands, didn't get a duel in July months in June. Tens of thousands feel abandoned and deceived. Kim? Government of Ukraine. Explain to me what the Cabinet of Ministers is so busy with. Why does he not make our decisions? What's the point of our finding here, if our law, adopted with a clear point, just doesn't work? This is also true of payments that are to be made to nurses, cadets, instructors of teaching centers, who are limitedly fit, out of state, injured, after severe injuries, captives, missing persons. Guys, they just spit on tens of thousands of people. I address, Mr. President of the Supreme Council, please comment now, make an appropriate request and demand that the law be implemented immediately. If that doesn't happen, I'm going to have to ask again the question of blocking all laws and all rights. I'll ask questions about the resignation of the government. Ukraine does not need such a government that does not work for military personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please be prepared. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft Decision on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Comprehensive Settlement of State Social Guarantees to Veterans, Defenders and Protectors of Ukraine, members of their families, members of families of the deceased (dead) Defenders and Protectors of Ukraine (Registration No. 9406). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:48:26]] For 284 Decision taken. The decision is taken in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. The next one was arranged without discussion, 9552. There's no Zinkevich, so it's Peter Alexiovich, right? So, 2 minutes, Peter Alexiovich Dustenko. This is the Draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Status, Social Support, Health Care for War veterans, Warlords, Defenders and Protectors and Members of Their Families. Please, two minutes of powder, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u113	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank our representatives of the volunteer battalions, including the Hospitals, for the very important work they are doing in providing medical care to wounded fighters. And I want to draw your attention to what is unacceptable when our tactical medics are prevented from coming to the front, including for the purpose of trying to provide medical assistance and evacuation. I want to thank Jana Zinkevich for bringing this draft decision, and I want to thank this room for the applause that you welcomed Jana Zinkevich and the Hospitalists. It is a true recognition of honor and respect. Thank you for that. And second position. I would like to inform you about the work of the working group that we are trying to address the issue of veterans, including the issue of ensuring the certification of all those who are entitled to it, and today it is almost a million Ukrainian military personnel. We have to stop the demeaning stand in the queues, the demeanor loading of the commanders, and we have one decisive action to issue 800,000 UBD certificates. This will protect the right of our veterans to teach children in colleges and to provide social benefits, and ultimately to protect the social protection of veterans. We'll agree to do it by the 7th, but let's do it by the 24th so that the veterans on Independence Day get the legal benefits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, let's move on to. Okay. Let's have Julia Volodymyr 2 minutes, and then we'll vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u115	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland. Well, first of all, I certainly support the creation of such a temporary commission of inquiry, and our faction will certainly vote in favour. But I would like to add some questions that I think our Supreme Council needs to consider immediately. All of you, I think, remember the great problems that were declared in this rostrum when they voted for the legalization of the so - called medical marijuana. You remember all of this. The pain of our wounded, the pain of our cancers, nausea, the treatment of epilepsy, severe forms. You all remember how much you talked about doing this literally as a matter of urgency, these are marijuana drugs. I want to draw your attention to the Smigal Order 324 of April 7, 21, which legally and practically obliges the government to purchase two marijuana drugs: nabilone and nabiximols. Since the 21st year, no packaging of this drug has been purchased, despite the government's decision. You know that the Minister of Health said that the Law on the Legalization of Drug Marijuana could give only 2-3-4 years of medical medicine for Ukrainian production. We insist that an immediate decision be made by the Supreme Council, which we have put forward, oblige the government of Smigal, the minister of health, the minister of finance to immediately purchase the two cannabis-based medical products that you have decided not to speculate on these issues. Buy the drugs for the wounded immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this draft decision. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, as a whole, a draft Decision on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on legal status, social support, medical care for war veterans, military personnel, Protectors and Protectors and their families (registration number 9552). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:54:18]] For 297 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill, 9079. It's a draft State Reserve Act. We agreed that on the Conciliation Board there was this situation, there were the Voice repairs, they told me they were coming off. Right? Thank you. There have been repairs to Fatherland. I was told that there would be a five-minute speech by Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, six amendments by the Guardian of hers, four amendments by her Krulk, three minutes by Tsimbaluk, and all, "The Fatherland" is all. Yeah? Thank you. And who else will be? Dirdin. Turn on Dirdin, then Smarty, tell me what you'll be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u117	Edit 664 to take into account. It's about the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u118	664 on the count. Okay. I got it. Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov, what will you do?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u119	I'm going to have six lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u120	What adjustments? Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u121	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u122	Name the numbers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u123	Now, a minute. 120, 127, 134, 151, 190.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u124	120, 127, 134, 151, 190 — five amendments. These are your adjustments and you put them in.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u125	I can swap them for two minutes if you now, and two put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u126	Let's say: let's give 2 minutes of performance and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u127	Now, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u128	Julia Volodymyrna asked first. Julia Volodymyrna, come on, then Dmitri Alexanderovich will take two minutes to set up his repairs, then we'll move on to you, because I understand he's in a hurry. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich, two minutes and then two corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u129	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. In fact, the issue is important enough to state registers, but there are problems. There are many uncertainties in this law. And it is these two amendments that I will ask them to put to the vote so that they do not give too much authority to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers has demonstrated its inefficiency and allowing them to dispose of state registers or surpluses that may be, it is actually an opportunity for dishonest officials to make money on this. We see very clearly how this is happening today. There's a proposal to support the drafting of our team, the "Smart Politics" team, in order to better determine who will have such rights. A separate organ of central authority that will actually have authority under this law, if it is accepted, and will not go to the Cabinet of Ministers. That is, those responsible will be specific, responsible, and decision - making. And here, too, the Supreme Council will be able to find, sorry for the slang, the extremes who will embezzle the state's property if they do. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I ask you to put to the vote two orders now: Law 190, which defines the specific powers of the executive authority regarding the implementation of State policy in the field of state reserves, and to set up a number 151, which makes it impossible to privatize and deconstitutions, institutions, organisations and other public reserves that ensure the functioning of the state reserve. Please put these two changes to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u130	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. So, dear colleagues, you've taken a stand. Dmitri Aleksandrovitch made a presentation and asked that the Committee amend 151, 190. So let's start in a row. 151 The amendment by Razumkov is not considered by the committee. The author is requesting that this correction be taken into account. Please vote. [[13:58:58]] For-84 The decision is not taken. And the same 190 amendments to Reasonable. She's been rejected by the committee. The author asks for it to be taken into account. I'm betting 190 adjustments. Please vote. [[13:59:24]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Thank you, colleagues. Yes, Dmitri Alexanderovich, everything with the repairs. Let's move on. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko – 5 minutes, then Nastawajchenko – six amendments, then Krulko – four amendments, then Cimbaluk – 3 minutes and then Dirdin 664. And then we vote for the bill as a whole. Please, Julia Volodymyrna, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u131	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, we are considering an incredibly important law, especially for our country, which has been on fire for over a year and a half. What is Ukraine’s national reserve? This is our national security system. This is our country's security system to ensure that under any extraordinary circumstances, including during the war, the country is provided with all the necessary resources. This bill is certainly important to the country. But the concept set out in this bill just destroys our system of state reserves. I'll explain why. Because this law allows for the preservation of the state reserve, everything in the state reserve, in private companies under their private protection, including the right to keep the state reserve abroad in private companies. Dear friends, I can tell you just as a person who has twice served as prime minister, Ukraine has a colossal property of its state where all the state reserves can be kept. And this state property is, this is storage facilities, this is elevators, this is land, this is everything in the world. What is now proposed by this law? I understand that all the power to store the nation's national reserve will be sold out as everything in our country is sold out -- both land and electricity and warehouses and everything in the world. And there will be a choice of ways when the state reserve, everything the country needs, will be stored in private companies in private warehouses under a private crown. First. This absolutely does not guarantee storage. Because when I took the prime minister twice, everything that was counted in private warehouses, in private companies, in inspection, in control, in accounting was not found. It was simple or not placed in the state reserve and there were forged documents, or it was just stolen and sold out. So the government reserve, which was kept in private warehouses, was simply not available. Now imagine if a state reserve is allowed to be kept outside Ukraine in private companies. Many problems are already involved. For example, as is the case now, when planes are not allowed to deliver these state reserves to Ukraine on an urgent basis. And the second. This is the political position of a state that may not release our state reserves from its territory if it does not form part of a coalition that supports Ukraine. A lot of risks. And I want to remind you that, for the sake of the Ministry of Defence, the state has purchased more than a billion euros of all that the army needs, but nothing has been set up. I mean, there's a contract, but there's no supply. Do you want the formation of a state reserve after the adoption of this law to become a fiction? Do you want this not to guarantee the state absolutely no guarantee of preserving our reserves? What are you doing? First, we need to form state reserves as strong and as comprehensive as this warring country needs. Secondly, keep exclusively at state power, warehouses, in state-owned elevators and so on, and keep nothing in private. And thirdly, we need to act immediately on purchasing into the state reserve of grain, which is now being sold below cost. And our crops, if we don't buy at least 5 million tons of grain into the state reserve right now, we just won't be able to let our agrarians sit down on the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u132	Please give me one minute to answer from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u133	The Committee on Economic Development agrees by 100 percent that the way it is can no longer be that way. Because all of these disgraceful experiences, events that were previously on the national reserve of Ukraine, such as when a grain is eaten by a mouse, when it is purchased, for example, meat cans and with a price of 10 to 20 bracelets on one bank, when the goods are simply being cheated because their expiration date has long expired and no one needs them anymore. And most importantly, at the beginning of the full-scale invasion, there were cases where we had a collapse in the fuel market, and the state reserve had nothing to throw into the market to stabilize prices. That's why we're actually predicting by the bill the possibility of storing, for example, and buying fuel abroad in order to, if necessary, we know that the fall-winter period is going to be extremely difficult. So in order to secure ourselves and anticipate such a possibility, we also grant the right to store abroad. As far as private companies are concerned, the conservation and security of the state reserve and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u134	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Krulko, 3 minutes, then Nastavajchenko – 6 amendments, Cimbaluk – 3 minutes. And after that, Dirdin, amendment 664, and we vote. Please, Krulko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u135	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd like to say in a complex about the bill that we're currently looking at. The reform of the state reserve system has been, is and remains essential for the creation of an effective security system for Ukraine in a special period. Based on the experience we have gained from the beginning of a full-scale invasion of the Russian Federation into Ukraine, with the beginning of a full-scale war, the system that was in operation failed to meet the real challenges that led to a major complication in the conduct of food and material and technical crises. Clearly, then, the issue of normalization and really changes to the relevant law of profile is of great importance. But that bill that we're considering, proposed by the government, is difficult to call revolutionary, because it's more of a framework. The mandate to define the nomenclature, to update the reserve, to replenish and implement the reserves from the reserve are placed on the Cabinet of Ministers and remain unclear before the publication of the relevant sub-legislative acts. So everything is going to be defined, not by law, but by legislation. The bill, which was prepared by the second-reading committee, certainly took into account some of the rules that the "Fatherland" faction made, was included, but unfortunately not all of them, because we were making really professional amendments to this bill. At the same time, what I'd like to say is that the key problem that still doesn't allow us to support this bill, and we're not going to vote for it, is that the corruption risks involved in storing them in the state's wealth reserve remain extremely high. Risks of abuse of stocks in the context of refreshing, recycling, and other resupply mechanisms remain. And that's all left in the text of the law. The introduction of the implementation method through ProZorro's single trading system calls into question the storage of information on reserves. The information must certainly be with limited access, not ProZorro, to calculate how much is given, will be very difficult for the enemy and he will see it all. That's why we think that information about what's in the reserve should be under the "For Service Use" heading and can't be made public. On the question and integrity of information within the single information system that is proposed. In general, I want to say that this bill is definitely half a step ahead, but it doesn't solve those issues that are in a special period, in times of war that have to be decided by the Ukrainian state, and we as parliamentarians would certainly have to do it more qualitatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u136	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, then Valentin Nastawaichenko asked for three minutes instead of six amendments. Tsymbaluk, three minutes. And after that, we'll have Dirdin's amendment and we'll vote. Please, Devajchenko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u137	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, our dear protectors. Why is the "Fatherland" faction fighting so hard that the law, the new bill on the Ukrainian state reserve, is in line with the interests of defence and security, and because in the country, war and state of war. We're going directly to the co-authors and to the profile committee. Dear colleagues, agree to a bill with the General Staff, once with the Security Forces, two with military administrations all over the country. What Is the Need for Consent? But in the main, during the war, the state register should be a weapon for the protection of Ukrainian citizens. Economic? Yes. Agro-industry? Yes. Humanitarian? Yes. And there are many and many threats that the Ukrainian Parliament has to give the law a new opportunity to film, starting with, fairly, you said, from this first hot season, from the first and the second winter of war. Do you decide these questions by this bill? Give an answer to the entire room and to all the people of Ukraine. First of all, the General Staff has shown you where to store for the benefit of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The main thing is to deliver in time. Yeah, we know. Yes, we ourselves are making every effort to have NATO member countries help us with this right now. And they help. You know that there are logistics centers on both sides of the border with Poland, Slovakia, Romania. All these centers are now providing our defenses and security. Thus, the time has come, including the State Register in the country, to do so in places that are needed for defence and security, and the availability of a reserve. It's for defense and security. For the economy. Well, we hear and we know the best Ukrainian agrarians. We have John Kirilenko who knows this better than anyone in the country. And it's just like they all say, right now it's going to be sown, right now it's going to be through the State Register to invest. Where to? But in Ukrainian soybeans, in Ukrainian grains, in Ukrainian agrarian security. Investing in what? But clearly, it's not corruption, it's not the TSC that's building one after the other, it's investing through the State Register in direct, targeted purchase. And then in winter, save prices, save farmers and save Ukrainian citizens. Is that not the goal? Fatherland thinks that's the goal. And we think that's what the State Register has to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u138	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, it's three more minutes, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. Then Dirdin's amendment. Then we go to the vote. Please, Michael Mikhailovich. And then I'll let you answer again, well, in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u139	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Finally, in the second year of the large - scale war, an extremely important bill was prepared by the government. In fact, the bill is really needed, until the second reading it became more perfect, but there are still risks that colleagues today spoke of, especially Julia Timoshenko, Valentin Nastavajchenko, John Krulko and others. Ladies and gentlemen, the war has demonstrated that the state reserve needs improvement. But the bill suggests that the state reserve and the mobilisation reserve are combined in one sense. That's the wrong way to go. It is a covert case that shows that the state has everything (and we as legislators) to take into account the previous bitter experience. You can't, and it's a huge risk of keeping outside our state of mobilisation and other reserves. Will we be able to place in time what the State will keep outside? Is there a guarantee that Ukraine’s State Reserve, which will be kept outside, will be properly preserved and delivered on time? Insurance and other risks. Dear colleagues, there has been a very important talk here that arises today with food security. Yes, this should include our reserve. We know how many combinations of bread products belong to a reserve. How is an intact supply kept? What are its storage terms, its implementation in the event of arrival, the end of the expiration date? By the way, this bill does not specify the drugs that are stored in the reserve. I mean, unfortunately, before the second reading, our rights were not taken into account, and the law did not become perfect, as we demanded. And about food security, a few words. Dear colleagues, the harvest is ending, the early grains are being gathered, and the State must guarantee food security for the following year. Julia Timoshenko and her colleagues spoke about this. The reserve has to take care of safety.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u140	A brief answer from the committee. And after that, Dirdin's amendment, and we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, literally brief comments. The Committee and the Ministry of Profiles worked very well with the General Staff and the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the functioning of the State Reserve. According to the bill, we know that the state reserve is divided into a material reserve and a mobilization reserve. With regard to the mobilisation reserve, the clear objectives of its operation have been defined, and a list of values to be purchased and maintained according to Ukraine’s security and defence priorities. The bill is therefore timely and necessary, particularly for the functioning of the effective functioning of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Maxim Evgenovich Dirdin, 664 amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u143	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support the 664. Why should we consider it? Listen to the following reasons. The bill does not define a category of actions for which the designated authorities will be exempted from payment by the court because the definition of the legislative provisions on State reserves, in particular the composition of such legislation, is not provided for in both the draft and the applicable legislation. What is the point of introducing such a benefit? There is no justification in the bill. One second. It is not acceptable to exempt a given body from the payment of a court fee, since that rule may be regarded as granting the designated subject certain advantages over other subjects, namely, a direct violation of the rules of the Constitution (art. 129) and a certain risk of corruption. That's why I'm asking you to support this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u144	What is the position of the committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u145	The committee was guided by the author’s logic during its consideration of the bill in order to increase the power and capacity of Ukraine’s national reserve. However, we believe that this amendment needs to be supported in order to have equal opportunities for different national institutions in order to avoid distortions and the principle of justice, it worked for all. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, you understand that 664 amendments to Dirdin's authorship were rejected. But the author wants to take this correction into account. The committee doesn't, in principle, object if it decides that way. So I'm putting 664 amendments into account. That's what I'm talking about. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:19:15.]] For 289 Decision taken. Amendment 664 is included. Congratulations, colleagues. Let us move on to a decision on the law as a whole. I propose to adopt the draft Law on State Reserves (Registration No. 9079) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[14:20:00]] For 255 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. The next bill, 8138, we also have a second reading. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Investment Projects with Significant Investments in Ukraine. We arranged it this way on the Conciliation Council. Since the E.E. faction, it's going to be five minutes, and it's going to be ten amendments to be taken into account, five amendments to be confirmed by South Carolina. Next to Fatherland is Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, and eight amendments to Rušhishina. And then we vote. Yes, colleagues? So let's move on to. Let's start with the presentations, then the amendments that are to be taken into account, then the amendments that are to be confirmed. You guys stay here. Please, Hotcharenko, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u147	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we are discussing an important bill with you now. And to be honest, I've had a desire to put 100 plus the right here to draw our attention to what is happening today in the implementation of the decisions of the Supreme Council by our Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. However, I decided, after consulting my colleagues, to make this last warning and not to do it right now, but to discuss this situation that has arisen and to demand its immediate solution. It is a matter of regret that, unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has taken the practice of not enforcing the laws of Ukraine as part of the change in transitional positions and of amending the regulations into the terms defined by the Supreme Council. It's not the first, not the second, not the third time, but when it comes to the issue of the rights of military personnel, I think it's so shameful that it's so unacceptable that we can't keep our mouth shut and we have to act and get their reaction immediately. What am I talking about? We passed the law with you. It's a very important law that I've been pursuing for a long time. And by the way, in order to take military vacations, I also had to block the Supreme Council because of the attitude towards confirmation of the rights, but we finally found consensus and this law on leave for military personnel was adopted to pay them. Holidays, by the way, also have problems. I call on the Committee on Safety and Defence immediately to draw the attention of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of Ukraine to the effect that this must be done, that this is the legal right of military personnel today to 30 days of annual leave, plus 10 days under family conditions, plus time for travel (one day up to 500 kilometers, two days over 500 kilometers each way). It's important. And there are some problems. But the real disaster came with a point on changing the order of payments for military personnel. The point is, according to our law, the Cabinet of Ministers was obliged (again – obliged!) At 30 days' notice, amend the regulations on the order of payments. That's until July 30th. And I didn't. I just didn't. Nothing complicated, it's a simple legal, bureaucratic, no complication, they're just busy with something else. They're taking the technical regulations of washing machines, they're taking the other "stupid." We're talking to you here, and we're passing the winemaking laws -- it's all important, but the most important thing is our victory, which means our military personnel. And they didn't accept this piece of legislation. As a result, a catastrophic result, in July, no Nazi guard, no border guard, that is, all those who comply with the IMF system, received no amount of military pay -- not 30 or 100,000 dollars, nothing. These are the people we keep talking about: "Glory to Ukraine! A hero of glory!" Should we start with basic respect and law enforcement? We won't let these people go. I'm not gonna let that go anywhere else. We have to make sure they get it all. And they got in August what they didn't get in July. And, of course, in August, in July, that is, in two months. To that end, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is immediately required to make changes to the ruling. This can be done at a minimum. The same is true of payouts to grad students who are limited to eligible outside the state, who are unfit for review outside the state, to instructors of teaching centers. Next, prisoners wounded after serious injuries have disappeared, this must be done immediately. I'm going to the Security and Defence Committee, this is a profile committee, and I want you to consider this right now and request action from the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm addressing you, Your Honor, Mr. Speaker. Please contact the Cabinet of Ministers for their work. If not, I'll ask questions about both blocking the Supreme Council and resigning the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u148	Please, Your Honor, we still have 5 minutes of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Please, Julia Volodymyr. Then again, I remind you, 10 revisions to take into account, 5 amendments to Eugene's confirmation. Nina Petrovy, if you don't mind, give me a list so we can look at them. And after that, the Engine took off its repairs, and we're going to vote. Julius Volodymyrly, five minutes of yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u149	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, I think you still remember in this room the vote of Bill 8401, where from the smallest of our entrepreneurs, from the fops of the first, second, third group, all the benefits were removed, cash machines were introduced, controls were put in place for the little entrepreneurs themselves since October 1st, and dragon systems were created for their destruction. 8401 was explained by the need to collect 9 billion dollars by the end of the year from these small microentrepreneurs, already with the skin to collect taxes in order to help the army. They still help the armies from morning to night, but they also removed all the benefits. I want to remind you that Bill 8401 took lives in millions of our small businesses, and in fact these tax-free forms were somehow there. But as they say, the pattern was waved, and these people were left unemployed, without income, without anything. It's for the middle class, for the FOP, for those who hold the front and the back today. What are you doing now? Now you're for super-rich people who can make $30 million in investments, and now you're taking this bill down to those who can make $12 million in investments, what do you do for them? You take your taxes off them, you take off all your customs payments, you take them off the hook to all the networks, the communications networks, including the power grids. You're making an offshore zone in Ukraine for mega-rich people and (pay attention!) For those who have not yet lost a conscience in this room, you still predict 30 percent of their investment to pay them back from the state budget. What are you? So the FOP of the first, second, third group is a home-country payout, and even though you promised them by the end of the war, and a year after the war, you didn't give them the benefit of paying taxes, so you took them off, and now you're forming a new oligarchy in the country with new offshore zones, with total withdrawal from all budget payments. And you're going to compensate them for 30 percent of their investment from the state budget? I'd like to ask who came up with this kind of policy. And I also want to remind you that equality in entrepreneurship is a golden norm all over the world. Please tell me, if you don't make $12 million in investments, and 11.999 doesn't need any more aid? And if, for example, our domestic producers produce, I don't know, ceramic gossip and they pay all the taxes, and you pay for those who come in with $12 million investment and also produce ceramic tiles, do you make an offshore zone? So how are our domestic entrepreneurs going to compete with those who don't pay taxes and get 30 percent of their investments from the state to cover their costs? You imagine that you're for entrepreneurs who do the same business, you're creating different tax conditions, and you're ruining the entire competitive environment in Ukraine. That those who pay their taxes honestly will have a corrupt business, and those in the offshore zone will earn their profits at the expense of the state. And it was during the war. So you're going to take 9 billion in small and medium-sized business, and now you're going to have 30 percent of the investment to compensate for the oligarchy. It's not politics, it's a big lie. And I'm asking you for this corrupt law that creates a new oligarchy in Ukraine, don't vote. Fatherland votes against. We're FOP and the middle class of Ukraine, not the swamp oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, we have finished our speeches instead of our amendments. Then we're going to have to make some adjustments for Nina Petrovna. Let's start with some adjustments. I'll just call it in. You're going to put 51-y, 63-y, 66-y, 74-y, 102-y, 130-y, 135-y, and then confirm 50-y, 58-y, 65-y, 78-y. Is that all right, Nina Petrovna? Let's start with 51. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I feel as desperate for the first time as I am today, because even after the first reading of this bill, there were precisely large members from the committee to review their decision and to consider that we do not have enough weapons on the front today, equipment, armor, everything to produce our country to provide our own, not everything to wait only from abroad. Yeah, well, this amendment is talking about expanding the types of activity that the master is offering, which is now standing on the stand, because he's got his shirt closer to the body, obviously. He suggested adding electronic communications to such benefits, and now he added other amendments, no less appealing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u152	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u153	Thank you. We've heard that before. But I just want to invite our colleagues to read what they're commenting on. We've included this in the entire section. This includes, in particular, the production of heavy weapons, artillery, moving cannons, rocket launchers, torpedoes, heavy machine guns, and so on. That's all you didn't say, but we counted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u154	The 51 revision of Nina Jujanina's authorship is partially included. The author insists on taking full account of this amendment. I'll put this motion to the vote. [[14:34:42]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Please continue the 63 revisions. It's a Southern.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, what the reporter just said was the basic norm of the law -- the processing industry. It's not what they're counting right now, it's what he's saying now that they're bioethanol, biogas will be doing in the benefits of activities that will support the state during the war, so don't lie from the rostrum. 51 the amendment just ruled out your "hotel" for telecommunications. The next amendment is 63. In general, please understand, if the State is making concessions and is talking about State support, it requires that it replace at least job creation. In the first edition of the law, there were 80 jobs per investment in 20 million euros. But now you're going to see them write it again to the second reading committee yesterday, for what?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u156	63 Amendments to the Authorship of Jujanina The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[14:36:16]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 66. Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u157	In the 66th Amendment, I propose what I have offered from the very beginning. If the state loses taxes, if the state spends money for certain individual oligarchs, please tell them to pay at least a decent salary, higher than the average in the region in question? No, it's not. The boys want this salary to be the same as the company that's going to compete and that's impossible to compete with, and they don't want to raise this wage rate, as I suggest, by 50 percent. They're going to start inventing some nonsense in other amendments, and we're going to get to them. Please support the 66 amendment, which refers to an increase in the wages to be paid by those privileged enterprises that are supposed to create jobs. There's no giggling. I'm sick and tired of this bullying.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u158	66. An amendment to the authorship of Jujanina. The committee turned it down. Please vote. [[14:37:46]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 74 revisions. Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u159	I absolutely agree with the speakers that the know-how of a person standing on a platform: and let's still count on the investment projects of those who are already working to work in any field. And yesterday, Mr. Silent was asking questions on the committee, and as we do the liquor companies that were already bought for no price, we can give them benefits and include, give them the opportunity to get into the same investment projects. The master said: “No, there is a limit. There are no limits. So if we're now all those owners who bought the liquor stores for 144 million dollars, if we translate the figure they want, 30 percent of the minimum 12 million euros, we're going to give them 10 more tax benefits. That's what I'm talking about. I've never heard this room before. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u160	Let's vote. Then Mr. Mukchan wants a replica. Please, 74 revisions of the Southern authorship have been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:39:17]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Silence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. In fact, we had a discussion on the committee, but in excusing this discussion, I have to say that I was wrong and Igor Petrovich set the right standard, and there's no lobbying standards for liquor and privatization objects. The "investment" law applies exclusively to greenfields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u162	Thank you. 102nd Amendment. Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u163	You're wrong. I just read the right column. Absolutely, just as it was edited for all kinds of expenses incurred, so it remained. Now, Julius Volodymyrically, to what they said. They're now excluding the investment project evaluation of the study, the analysis of economic indicators, that is, the Ministry of Economics can't and won't even fight to come to a conclusion, and how a new enterprise like that will affect the whole industry. They don't care that tomorrow the whole "lies" industry comes up with a big investor who will take over this kind of activity, and will be the only representative we have in the Ukraine market. And that's why the Mineconomy, which is absolutely powerless to prove its right to leave an economic analysis behind, agrees, because that's where these representatives don't come out, and that's who else to put in. You're going to have to make a contest like this, who's going to give more. Then it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the 102nd amendment to the authorship of the Yuzanina. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[14:41:20]] For-64 The decision is not taken. The next 130th amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u165	I'm talking to my colleagues. Now, look, I'm not asking you a global question right now, but I'm asking you the basic question that the investment project should have an economic analysis. This is most important in order to preserve the competitiveness of those enterprises, those investors that did it a year ago, did not benefit from all the benefits that were being prepared for individual chosen ones. And by the way, after the completion of this Supreme Council's office, I will definitely track down all of these "hotels" and I will necessarily file complaints with all the law enforcement agencies to get this started to show this video of who's going to vote now and investigate the competence of those people and their benefit from adopting these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u166	The 130th amendment of the author of the Yuzanina. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[14:42:35]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. And the final adjustment for accounting. 135th. Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u167	And the 135th amendment also, I think, is exactly what the colleagues are supporting, because when an investment proposal is being made, this investment project is being rejected and it's being reworked, please tell me why you can't be involved in the work of local self-government? They determine whether they need such a competitor in the territory, whether they need it or not. Perhaps this competitor will destroy more than he can bring to the region. I've offered a very real standard to make sure that you're not in the city going to open up these businesses, you're in the territory of different communities. When the project is being developed, the opinion of local self - government authorities is important. So please support my colleague with amendment 135.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u168	The amendment by the 135 committee was rejected. I'd like to make a statement. This is the authorship of Yuzanina. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:43:56]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who can make adjustments? No, it's not. We've got four amendments to the confirmation that Eugene's going to make. Therefore, I ask the national deputies to take their seats. I'll remind you, this is the 50, 58, 65 and 78 revisions. Please, Nina Petrovno, we're starting with 50 adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, what now, what are the spheres of the economy covering the "invested" in the person of some people here? The manufacturing industry that you've been told is where all kinds are made of warships, mining of useful fossils (listen!) waste management, transport, composite agriculture, postal, courier activities, logistics, education, scientific, scientific and technical activities, health care, art, culture, sport. They're adding: electrical communication. This was the most important project ever prepared for. That's where it all started. Please do not support this, for they are competitors for all our mobile operators, not just because it is both the Internet and cable networks and cellular connections. The redistribution of the market continues. This is a robbery that continues even after sanctions have been imposed on beneficiaries of the Russian Federation or connected persons, but this will be directly applicable to enterprises where.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u170	The Committee's position, please, on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u171	This is a partial adjustment. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u172	Thank you. Fellow dignitaries, 50 amendments to Marchuk and Kisilevski, are included in part. At the same time, Nina Petrovna Yuzanin asks for such a decision to be taken in part into account for the confirmation in the hall. I'm putting 50 amendments in an editorial that takes part of the committee into account for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:46:09]] For 247 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Next up, 58th. Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u173	Of course, it did not take until the second reading was reworked, namely, bioethanol and biogas were added to such activities yesterday. This will definitely help our Armed Forces, it will definitely add investment! Why are you not ashamed of such suggestions? I repeat, if the DBR does not now trace these initiatives and the benefits that the MPs receive, including those in the hall, the country will not survive or overcome this war. I'm just scared of what you're doing right now. Indeed, it is necessary to produce, but certainly not at the expense of the State, certainly not at the expense of State aid. Get your hands off me, please! Do not support Amendment 58.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u174	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u175	It's a very important thing to do. I very much ask my colleagues to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, the 58th Amendment of Marchuk is considered by the committee. She asks for such a decision to be made by the committee for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:47:42]] For 251 Decision taken. The factions. Next 65th. Please, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I am now personally addressing the Head of NAZK. You're witnessing what's going on in the hall. I don't know how you're cooperating with other law enforcement agencies, but you just have to hand over everything you've heard here, the argument of the sides, the smiles are satisfied, and even analyze who voted for these amendments. By the way, for those who have little to do, it's the work of the baby and it's supposed to be from the very beginning in the adoption of regulations and laws. From these, the feet begin to grow in the corruption that our country will soon eat. That's why I'm here. In this amendment, it's actually cynicism, when we had 80 jobs for 20 million, I offered at least 50 jobs for 12 million, and this person offered 10 jobs plus 50 percent increase in average wages in the field, then 30 jobs plus 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u178	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u179	See, this person is proposing to develop high-tech projects that provide a 50 - percent increase in wages. Next, if more than 30 jobs are created, we propose an increase of 30 percent, and then we leave everything as it was, and as it was voted, and when it was supported. That's why we don't see any betrayal here. On the contrary, we are developing high-tech projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u180	65 amendments, 65 amendments taken into account by the committee. You heard the position. They're betting on confirmation of the 65th amendment. Please vote. [[14:50:46]] For 234 Decision taken. The factions. And the last 78 amendments. Yuzanina, be a moose.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u181	I can imagine how real investors are now reacting. Well, you won't have any investments, like you haven't had in all these two years while you've been rambling around with this project. And once again, I'm going to track down every "investment nanny" and every investment project. I ask you now to read out 78 amendments to make Mukchan hear whether Igor Petrovich corrected what he wrote from the beginning. Because if he says that an investor can now be joined by a loved one, who has already made an investment of 30 percent of his investment project, then what should be done by those who have already invested 150 million and have never had such an excuse, those who have not begun to work through war and wait for his activities to be implemented? How will you repay it? Where are you pushing the country? When is this all going to end, this darkness, this frost? I'm here to stop this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, and the last 78 amendments that Nina Petrovna puts to the vote are the Marchuk amendment, which is counted by the committee. Nina Petrovna insists that this be confirmed. I'm putting 78 amendments to the vote. Please vote. [[14:52:39]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've all been through. Aah! One more minute, Gerasimov. And we vote. I'm sorry. One minute. Then we vote. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u183	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, listen very carefully right now. As you know, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the security and defence sector is financed exclusively by the money we raise inside the state, exclusively for taxes and various payments that we collect inside the state. By this law, you are now lobbying specific businesses, specific representatives, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and you are filming and taking money from the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Now, please, this is one of the signs that will then affect the perception of whole factions. That's why I have a big request, you have one hand of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, another hand of lobbyism to support specific businesses of specific people. Choose what you want, just choose. I urge you not to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u184	The position of the committee, please, briefly for this presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u185	Look, dear colleague, we are lobbyists of exclusively Ukrainian interest and exclusively Ukrainian business. This section, I've already stressed here, includes all of what you're talking about, so there's no lobbyism here, except for the lobbyism of Ukrainian interest. Please support and enable the Ukrainian business to develop. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Investment Projects with Significant Investments in Ukraine (registration No. 8138). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:55:11]] For 260 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, next bill without discussion. This is 9419, 9419-1. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on minimizing potential oligarchic influence on political parties, improving public funding mechanisms and State control over political parties. I'm proposing to include these two bills in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[14:55:56]] For 291 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the drafting of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to minimize potential oligarchic influence on political parties, improve public funding mechanisms and State control over the activities of political parties. Vote please, Your Honor. Stop! Stop this vote. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I didn't call the number. 9419-1. We're voting for an alternative. I'm sorry. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on minimizing potential oligarchic influence on political parties, improving public funding mechanisms and State control over political parties. I propose to accept as a basis for redrafting the provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. Please vote. [[14:57:16]] For 291 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and we're on the Conciliation Council to consider 24th. In order for us to consider it at the next meeting, I propose that the proposal should be reduced by half by the time of submission of proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine with regard to the minimization of potential oligarchic influence on political parties, the improvement of public funding mechanisms and the State control over the activities of political parties (registration number 9419-1). Please vote. [[14:58:07]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next bill, 6529. It's a second reading. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other legislative acts. What, Motovlover? Please. Please, Motovilover.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u187	We now have a bill for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry on public procurement during military operations (No. 9555). I'm asking you to change the order of the hearing and put it to a vote, and move on to this temporary commission of inquiry so that we can get her to work today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u188	Heratchenko, please, on this matter of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, we support this TSC, but there is one problem. Unfortunately, there has been no vote, no decision has been made on the representative of our political faction. We are delegated to her by Vladimir Ariev. That's why we're asking you to put it to a vote now. Dear Mr. Andrey, we ask whether or not we should put to the vote the creation of this TSC, where we are delegating from the Vladimir Ariev faction, or whether we should move this matter to tomorrow for the regulatory committee to decide on the delegation of Vladimir Ariev, we have registered all the relevant letters, and tomorrow we will make this decision. Please, because we have some very important TSCs where our factions are not included, and we insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, there will be no voice. I mean, we're not gonna put it out of our voice. I didn't call it "The Voice," I'm sorry. I mean, we're not gonna make any changes. Then we'll be tomorrow, next time. Klimenko, please, with the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u191	Unfortunately, honourable colleagues cannot be added simply by the decisions of Mr. Ariev’s committee. We welcome you very much, but unfortunately, we need to actually call off all the members and then reapply. That was said by the chairman of the committee. Therefore, there is a suggestion today to vote in such a composition, and then to add Mr. Ariev to this temporary commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, look, I'm putting in the suggestions that have been made, and we've been exchanging thoughts. There was a suggestion to change the order of the day and move on to 9555. This is Motovilov's offer. Ready to vote? I'm making this offer now. Please, I'm offering Motovilovt. Please vote. [[15:01:18]] For 271 Decision taken. So let's move on to Bill 9555. This is a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible violations of Ukrainian legislation in public procurement during the course of the war. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[15:01:52]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, should we discuss this? Then write it down: two in, two in, two in. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national MP Greenchuk Oksani Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u193	Please give the word to Alexander Kowalczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u194	Please, Alexander Kowalczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u195	Honorable Presidium, respected colleagues, respected Ukrainians, as was rightly pointed out today by the opposition's representative a little earlier, that such interim commission investigators should be created for the opposition's initiatives, not for the authorities. This is exactly the case when the opposition expressed the desire to create a temporary commission of inquiry on possible violations of public procurement during the war period. We've supported this proposal, I'm asking a colleague in the room to also support their vote in favour of creating a temporary commission of inquiry, which is very important to our society, for our victory, so that many people today who have government funds at different levels, at the local level, from the state budget, are channeling funds very often, and we're reading it with you in the media, not where they need it or not, as much as they need, so much more. We have witnessed many resonance investigations by media outlets that publish the number of tenders. And we have to work with you over the course of the year on this temporary commission of inquiry, where there are representatives of most factions, some of them have not submitted their candidates, by the way, but are now asked to postpone consideration of this issue. I thank everyone that we're still looking at it, that's the question right now, that's important. I hope that, over the course of the year, our interim commission of inquiry will provide opportunities to familiarize the media, the public with the most violent cases during the war, when the funds were allocated in excessive amounts for repairs, the purchase of some technology that was unnecessary, for rumble, for stadiums, for landscaping or for anything that was not relevant to the nearness of our victory. I very much hope that these results.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u196	The word is given to National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u197	Thank you. Please give my word to my colleague Volodymyr Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u198	Please, Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u199	Well, we've all seen recently many million stadiums, and 700,000 pans, and drums in shelters, which were tenders that were conducted in a presidential vertical in the capital, in district government administrations. And let's look at the same thing that happened in the Ministry of Culture, when it was just millions of dollars on the show, and at the same time, there aren't enough elementary drones on the front, even the Matrix 30T, which, today, our protectors pray for, and the cost of one of them 300,000 dollars, and they don't get it today. But today we have Big Building number two, we have pans today, we have bossies today, we have serials. So let's take this whole vertical thing seriously -- both governmental and local authorities, in district administrations, who pay for it. And we're going to take it very seriously, we're going to take it very seriously, and we're going to draw conclusions. Because we, so much as, have won the war, if all of these costs that are going on today are not being discussed in public, they are completely disregarding the needs of our state at this moment when the most important things are missing from the front. That's why we vote yes. And I would very much like to include, I don't understand why I wasn't included in this temporary commission of inquiry, although I'm being submitted, and I'm asking very much for my candidacy to be included there and we're going to work on establishing who, where and where to pay for.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u200	Please, instead of Sobolev Evtusok, Sergey Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. What is called the daytime appearance of such a draft decree? It is called on us to control public finances not only in the central authorities, but, as noted by previous speakers, including in municipalities, as a monitoring body or legislative body with a monitoring function. At the same time, we're like the Fatherland faction and, in principle, everyone in the country is now seeing pressure being exerted on the leaders of the territorial communities, our mayors of cities. This is being done and, unfortunately, judicial decisions, which in some way have been dismissed from the exercise of the authority of the city heads, I think, on some premeditated grounds that these city heads, especially those who vote for 60 or more in the territorial community in the election, should be dismissed from exercising their powers. So this commission, obviously, which I'm sure will be supported in this session hall, should not only investigate how money-spent money, expenses, and at the same time put a fat dot on the fact that our leaders of the territorial communities, using this financial resource, are doing it right. Because they are public procurement, not in spite of the activities or work of local governments, but in support of them, because these public finances must be public not only for members of local councils, but for the whole of society, especially for those living in certain areas, in communities. We vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u202	Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the "Voice" faction. Tsabbal, please, Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u203	Vladimir Tsabal, Voice faction. Honorable Ukrainian national deputies, in accordance with article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council establishes temporary commissions of inquiry into issues of social interest. In recent times, a significant social resonance has arisen precisely because of a violation of the issue of potential misuses in the course of purchases. While a large number of Ukrainians are fighting or helping the army to get closer to victory, certain officials have decided to take advantage of the fact that the main focus is on the front, thinking that no one will notice corruption in the back. Abuse is often the result of decisions we made in connection with military necessity. This is, for example, an opportunity to hide some information about the purchase. For example, the place where it is. This is the possibility of conducting uncompetitive trades, where there is a clear basis for doing so when possible, but it is often done without reason. This is an opportunity not to reveal the treasure and so forth. There are also many questions about the relevance of certain costs. Do We Need New Stadiums? I guess we do, but after the win. Do We Need New Solutions? I think it's necessary, but after we restore all the bridges destroyed and the hospitals, the housing houses, the schools. Given that every penny of Ukrainian citizens' taxes goes to security and defense, in fact all defenseless expenses are financed by our donors. As a result of their inefficient use, they will stop giving us money and we will not be able to finance the army fully. Every corrupt person who buys twice as much is stealing from the army, we have to understand that, and so it helps the enemy. Colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-09-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm making an offer. I'll make you an offer, one second. I would like to make a proposal to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Possible Violations of Ukrainian Law Enforcement in Public Procurement during the Operation of the War State (Registration No. 9555). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:12:30.]] For 271 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We're still working to win. And glory to Ukraine!
