ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today, we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I point out that, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. My fellow Members, I particularly stress, I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for the security of the single legislative body of our state. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension in the plenary meeting, and we all have to move to safe places according to the shelter scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 546th day of full-scale Russian aggression against Ukraine. On August 19th, the day of the religious festival, when people went to church, the racists again committed war crimes by firing a rocket at the center of Chernigova, one of the oldest theatres in Ukraine. Seven civilians were killed, including 6-year-old Sofia, and over 170 people were injured. By expressing compassion for the families and loved ones of the dead, the wish of the victims to be healed as soon as possible, we confidently claim that this unseen evil in the 21st century will certainly be punished, the State-terrorist and all those who give and obey criminal orders will be held accountable. Protectors and protectors of Ukraine continue counterattacks, conquer occupied territories, liberate our people, reflect constant enemy attacks. Let us bow our heads in honor of their daily performance, and let us note with appreciation all those who have fallen into the fight for a free and prosperous European country. Heroes don't die, it's in our hearts forever. Let us also honor the memory of all the innocent victims of Russian aggression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, today we celebrate one of the most important national celebrations, based on the solid foundations of the centuries-old history of Ukrainian Statehood – the Day of the State Flag of Ukraine. Since the Russian Federation's brutal invasion of Ukraine, every day has become the day of the Ukrainian flag. Our blue and yellow flag is our strength and our pride. This is the flag of our victory and the flag of our irreparable losses. It is not only the flag of our diplomatic presence in the world but also the vital sign that Ukrainians live here, where they are respected and supported. Above all, our flag has ceased to be merely an attribute of the state and a sign that Ukraine is recognized in the world. He became part of the great Ukrainian heart, which covered the soul of Ukrainians and Ukrainians with its atlas. The flag is the sanctuary for which our children’s hearts are crying and dying. We believe that with the unity of the Ukrainian people, the unity of the Ukrainian partner states, the heroism of the defence forces, we will free the native land from the invaders, and the Ukrainian flag will prevail in all cities and villages of Ukraine. With the holidays, colleagues, again. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, today we have another sign festival, this day of the city is celebrated by the unbreakable Kharkiv – the center of the Slobid Region, the recognized industrial and scientific centre, the hero city. Since the early days of full - scale armed aggression, a city less than 40 miles [40 km] from the border with the Russian Federation has heroically held up the defense, worked triumphantly, and maintained its integrity. Please give a warm welcome to the unrooted Harkians on the day of the city. We wish them goodness, endurance, and the quickest victory of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, with the active participation of the President of Ukraine, other branches of power, the partner states of Ukraine, the decision has been made to give our nation modern combat aircraft and to train Ukrainian pilots. I also ask with applause to thank all the states involved in the aviation coalition for their very important assistance, which will allow for the protection of Ukraine's airspace. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies. Vladimir Anatoliyovich Voronova, "Serve of the people. Hello. And Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, "European Solidarity". Hello. [[Applause]] We welcome the nominees, wish them health, strength, new perfection, and victory in the name of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, if you will allow, on August 22, 2023, the Central Electoral Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on the electoral side of Ukraine on July 21, 2019 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, Tararin Mikola Alexandrovich, who is included in the election list of the political party "Serve of the People". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tararin Mikola Aleksandrovich, please, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u3	Heroic glory!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u4	In accordance with the application and part of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am reporting the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Mikli Aleksandrovitch, as part of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Serve of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes' time to the daytime agenda for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Members of the MPs and groups, please sign up for the performance. Please, colleagues. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u6	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Allow me from myself and from our faction to greet everyone with this holiday, the Day of the Ukrainian Flag. You know, as soldiers we also treat him, this holiday is very traditional. But unfortunately, now is the situation where we see the flags of the state, and one way or another we refer to it is when they're taking over our freed territories, as well as in parallel with the graves of our soldiers, who, unfortunately, give their lives every day for our country. And let me also say hello to tomorrow's Independence Day, and I call it the day of our nation's independence. Because to celebrate is really going to be when our defense forces and we, our whole society, win this holiday, and make it a celebration of peace in the future. But we also need to understand that now war, the ongoing war, goes on to a different stage. We need to see it as politics. This is a war of economics and a war of resources, a war in which the one who will win this economy will be more stable and will have more opportunities to build and provide our Armed Forces. And, here, my dear colleagues, in this war, it is the politicians, the politicians, who are supposed to provide all our Armed Forces. Because whoever forces us not to play the key role of the army, but the key role is the role of politicians who have to form a state strategy and tell our society what victory should be, and our forces of defense should provide it. We need to understand and engage in this process. I call every policy here, even though I know a lot of people in this room who help out every day of the front. But the question is now: to be subject to us as a parliament and to help us, each in our own place, each in our own committee, each in our own community, to help all of us, so that we can with dignity enter this process and provide our army with all the necessary. So, colleagues, once again, we as politicians now have to form a strategy, a strategy of our victory, to give it to our warriors and make this victory as fast as possible. Thank you, everyone. Everyone with a holiday and I want to win as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u7	Thank you. It's a good word. You're being handed over, aren't you? Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u8	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Welcome to the national festival of the State Flag of Ukraine. And you know, it turns out today that our warriors, by their own victories, are showing to all the world that Ukraine is a powerful, strong European state that will surely conquer its enemy. And I would like to talk today about the commitments that the Ukrainian national deputies make to Ukrainian citizens and to the Ukrainian people. First of all, we have to respond adequately to the challenges of today that exist in the country. Secondly, we have to react at the right time, and perhaps even the best, we have to respond to the advance. What do I mean? So I took part in the Social Policy Committee meeting, and there was my bill 8331 on the transfer of the functions of the Social Insurance Fund to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. And I was surprised to hear that the Ukrainian national MPs said that during the war, let's wait for victory and then we'll do reform. And I think the break took place when the head of this fund said that out of 8,000 employees, it turns out that only 100 people are doing actual social work, that is, the insurance payments. And here's a question for everyone. Dear colleagues, what kind of eyes will you look at insured persons? The other one. Please tell me, what is the more pressing problem for the Ukrainians today? Is that a lack of jobs? No, it's not. Today, anyone who interacts with the Ukrainian business will say that the main problem today is the lack of a skilled workforce. This is objective because half a million of our citizens today are at the front, protecting the country. And today, there is a time when we need to engage in reform and think about the future, because we can't use old approaches, old tools to solve the new challenges that lie ahead. The main thing that awaits us is that after the victory comes a million Ukrainian citizens from the front, our veterans, and we need to have a national strategy for a comprehensive rehabilitation of veterans that includes both medical and social rehabilitation, and productive rehabilitation, and prosthetics. So this is a huge, complex program, and I'm doing it now, and I'm ready to introduce it to a very important society. Dear colleagues, let us somehow unite and respond adequately. Now, just in time, there's a transfer of functions, so we can reform the new State Employment Service as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shevchenko Yevgeny Volodymyrovich, is invited to the floor by the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u10	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Eugenius Shevchenko, the "Deliverance of Ukraine" group. I want to congratulate all my colleagues, the entire Ukrainian people with the Day of the Flag. This is an important day for all of us, a symbol of Ukraine. And once again, I see that no one cares about what's going on in the hall, what's going on in their own affairs, but the people of Ukraine, our voters, they demand justice, they demand that we have normal purchases, that there be no corruption. The urgent issue today is corruption. And I am now again addressing the Head of the Supreme Council with a request: let's return, please, please, judge our government, our representatives. If it's not safe, we're risking it here too, it's not a big deal. Let the government come, report, so the MPs can be reinstated. A very important function of its own is parliamentary control, asking questions that come from voters. We've destroyed this communication, it's gone, and so there's chaos and corruption in the country. The level of corruption is said to have never been with any president like this. So once again, please, please, Ruslan Alexiyovich, consider this a parliamentary call to you, I don't know. Let's put the government back in the room, let's do what the MPs are asking us to do in the districts of the country. Thank you. I won't hold any time. All of us are victorious, and let's wait for Mr. Dennis Schmigal to be here, and we'll all start a real MP job together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u11	The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Venislav, Fedor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u12	May I present the word to the People's Deputy of the People's Faction "Serve of the People" of Bezgin Vitalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u13	Vitaly Bezgin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u14	Good afternoon, colleagues. As Mr. Speaker rightly pointed out, today there are three important symbolic days. First of all, this Festival of Flag Day is a holiday somewhere very, probably symbolic and painful at the same time for us, for the simple reason that our flag, these colors, is about dignity, it's about freedom, it's about that we spent all the time under Soviet Union pressure, it's about why our soldiers are dying on the front. These are the colors that are now in addition to our cities, unfortunately, they are also in the graveyards, cemeteries in all Ukrainian cities and communities. These are the colors for which we fight on all fronts, not just on the front, but the colors for which our colleague Alexander Marikowski explained and urged us to fight Russian gravel in an international arena that did not understand what this meant to us. But today there's another important event -- this is actually the Crimea Platform Summit, this is another symbolic day. What's important is that the President's efforts have brought Crimea back into the international order of the day. And it is very important that I, as one of the few parliamentarians representing this region, am now able to speak on this subject. I know that it is not possible to see my mother for seven years or four years without having to communicate with her directly. But does that stand out to me? No! No! Like tens, hundreds of thousands of criminals, that's exactly what makes me think that our families have been torn apart, torn apart not only territorially, but torn apart ideologically: someone has remained a faithful flag, someone has betrayed -- and we all have to live with it. So today we have a pack of Crimean Bills in the agenda at the beginning, and I believe that this package of Bills should unite us because it is the unity around our flags that our enemy fears around our positions. And they're afraid. They're afraid of us everywhere. They're afraid of us, by the way, and in Harkow, which is today.In fact, it celebrates City Day because it has become a symbol of our forpost and defense. They're afraid because they know they're losing. Because they and their tricolours are the pots of defeat. And our flags are a symbol of righteousness and victory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u15	The word is given to the Feds of Sofia Romanovna, the faction of "European Solidarity". Peter Alexiovich, I understand? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u16	With the Day of the State Flag, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! But even on holidays, sad news does not count on the holiday calendar. Tonight I received a tragic report about the death of my comrade, the deputy of Kyivrada, the colonel, the chief of UDA headquarters, who died, the fighting brothers of Dmitr Jaros and a member of our team. He died under the Kurdjuvka when he rushed to help evacuate the wounded in battles in the east. And I want to point out that I've been in my office all this time since I was 15, and there was a picture of me with him in the background of the Ukrainian flag when he won the Unraveled Games. And this is the price that Ukraine pays every day to preserve its independence. Sergei said that where the flag of Ukraine is there is Ukraine. And I firmly believe that now that we're going to the front, every time we travel to the east or south, the soldiers are giving us flags with their signatures and the name of the cities and villages they've freed, and this is the story that our descendants will study about the heroism of the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I am sure that the time will come and every single piece of Ukraine will have three flags: the flag of Ukraine, the flag of the stars of the European Union and the flag of NATO. And we have to do our best, because it's been a month and a half since the Vilnius Summit, the Supreme Council, we, the Ukrainian authorities, the government, the President's Office, haven't done anything yet to get close and prepare for the Washington Summit. Because our membership in NATO is our victory, and that is peace on the continent. Remember how hard it was when I was 14. We broke Putin's New Year's script. On the 22nd, we broke Putin's script on the cessation of Ukraine. And now we have to do everything we can to make Ukraine win. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! And glory to you, my friend Sokol!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u17	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, a group called Party for the Future. Please give me your word. Anna Speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, with the State Flag Day of Ukraine! A flag that rules over thousands of the graves of our defenders, our warriors, the flower of the nation, the gene pool that is being slaughtered in an ungodly manner. You know, I wouldn't want to say bad things, but I'm going to say it now, not in my own words, but in the words of the guys who are ahead. Why are we treated like meat? Are they referring to assignments that are predestined for failure? We're losing a crazy number of people with every effort to reflect our positions. The boys are sent without cover with art, without medevac, without proper equipment, on ordinary pickups, for the large officer responsible for the armor was not in contact for a month and a month and a half, but the general was told that the positions could not be lost. Because the comrade general can't be offended. I'm literally telling you about what the boys are telling me. That's not what I said. No line of defense has been properly drawn up nine months after the invasion. Dig in your belt. There's no normal blends. I don't give a shit about command. No swap cards available. In the last two days, we have lost five boys who blew themselves up on mines. There is no normal food supply either. We lost several positions because we were waiting for an attack from the forest, and the helmets came on the road. Crazy losses when some of the headquarters generals are shut down and a bunch of guys die and heavy equipment is lost because they cover the Lancets in minutes. The main task they put before us is to go and die. Colleagues, this is the people of Ukraine, this is our future, these are young boys. We have to do something. They hate us there. They hate us and think we're guilty. But we have no relation to many parts at all. I urge you, please, let's do something. Let's create a temporary investigation committee so that we can do anything to help the boys. They have one thing: when you've stolen a lot -- you're sent by the ambassador, when you've given the most people -- you're sent by a soldier. They have a furious demand for justice and justice they expect from us. Let's do something. Because, really, we're going to stand for victory, but we have to understand that we have a demographic problem, a demographic crisis, and boys have to have children, not put their lives on. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u19	Please give the floor to Ukraine's National Deputy, Boris Viktorovich, MP "Trust". After that, Sergey Vladislavovich was also Sobolje, and we will vote. Please pass the word "Bilozer" now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u20	Dear Ukrainians, dear Mr. Speaker, dear colleagues! Today, Ukraine celebrates the Day of the State Flag, and let us remember those who gave their lives for this tribulation, those who are now defending our land. Thank our defenders! The heart of Ukraine is beating because of you. Yesterday at the Veteran Forum, the President announced a policy of heroes, a policy of respect for our veterans, and that's very important. This is going to be our number one problem and our country's number one idea. Each veteran needs to feel this concern, and the Minvette estimates that there may be 4 million people at the end of the war. And this concern shouldn't be declarant, because we're seeing good ministerial presentations now that we're going to have pilot experiments, Minsotz is talking about case managers, Minvet is talking about veteran helpers. And all of this is planned for the tenth year of war. But in fact, problems arise in the military, in the veterans in the military, in the hospitals. When they go there, they just fight for their lives, and it turns out he had to report to get paid for the injuries, he had to collect a whole bunch of documents. And there will be no helpers here until all the law departments in the military are established. When the report is not signed by the commander for four months, then in the ministry for four months, you stand in line to be paid. I was approached by guys who can't afford to get hurt for a year and a half. So I'm asking you a lot and I'm asking you, first of all, to be people in the V.V.C., in the M.S.C., in the hospitals, in the military. We're Ukrainians, we're the only ones, we have to win this war, we have to get this peace long awaited! And the first is from the military, from the veterans. Today, we too are talking about rehabilitation. What's the NSA doing now? The NHRI is just looking at the conditions, it's increasing, it says, the capacity of the rehabilitation center should be 4 less times, it's all transferred to the infirmary. So I'm asking very much both NSOs, and as far as psychological assistance is concerned, now our Trust Group is dealing with this issue, working with Israel, the United States, specialists, we need to create this psychological aid. And it's not all going to be buttaphoria, it's not on paper, it's not on presentations, it's really in life, because we owe it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u21	Yes, the final word is Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of "The Fatherland." Dear colleagues, after that, we move on to the issues of order of the day. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I remember this hall very well in the 1990s, when a monument to the cat of the Ukrainian people was standing behind the presiding officer, Lenin, when the Major's blue and red flag was here. And I would like to mention briefly those key historical moments, as the blue-yellow flag was stated in modern history. Yes, the blue and yellow flag is the flag of the millennium history of Ukraine. But paradoxically, the first council in Ukraine to adopt the decision to approve the national blue and yellow flag was the Stry City Council. Then, tens and hundreds of local councils adopted these decisions. At the Supreme Council on August 23, 91st, this flag was introduced directly into this session hall, and it actually covered the entire session hall where people of different views sat. But this flag won, and this flag united the state, bringing together all those who wanted real independence and the rebuilding of the European Ukrainian State. I remember very well the first time that the flag was raised over the Kyiv City Council and then over the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I think it's actually not just a symbol of integrity today, it's not just a symbol that Ukraine really has its thousand-year history that we're not going to give to anyone, but it's also a symbol that, in the current conditions of Russian aggression, Ukrainian fighters on the front and the entire Ukrainian people are united in order to make this flag a symbol not only of victory, but also of the fact that this victory is not only in Ukraine, but it is the victory of all democracy in the world. That's why I would like to insist that today is really a national Ukrainian holiday. But it's also a holiday when we're protecting democracy in Europe and around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u23	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich, very much. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. But we've got a statement from two factions with a break and a replacement for the performance. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka. Do I get it right? Please, Irina Volodymyr. Then let's move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I will talk about a very delicate subject, the memory of our fallen heroes. Indeed, the Ukrainian flag covers the bodies of the dead, who gave their lives for Ukraine and our flag. And if we're talking about a country of heroes, first of all, we need to unite, not around the paphosic words, but with the real protection of the memory of the heroes. We have to say that in this direction we don't do that much. And recently, Parliament has made an extremely important decision by the constitutional majority to create a National Memorial, the National Military Cemetery. And we voted for it to be located in Beakown. Then all the factions spoke out symbolically to find their eternal tranquillity in the Bykownian forest, where the dust and remains of the Stalinic regime rested. I want to say that earlier this decision was taken by Kyivrad about the decommissioning of this land, and earlier the government, the Ministry of Culture, held public hearings and took into account the opinion of the families who died in order to have this memorial in the Bykownian Forest. Today, thousands of dead people whose ashes are in the urns at home in their relatives or are in the crematoriums at the temporary storage site. This is particularly dramatic for those families that represent occupied territories, for the Azow families, for the families of Mariupol's supporters who lost their loved ones, lost their homes and lost their temporary hometown, and today they have no opportunity to bury the remains, their bodies, the ashes of their families. This is about thousands of people. But what a shame, my friends, the law we voted with you in May, it's still not signed. And the government began to dance strangely on the bones and for days decided that the military memorial would now be in Gathnom, not taking into account the opinion of the families of the dead. Sorry, but honoring the memory of our dead must become a compulsory place of worship for every international delegation. Every international delegation, every student, every student, every Ukrainian must attend this memorial and worship the memory of the dead. And when it comes to the Bull, it's an understandable place like the Arlington cemetery in Washington, not in about thirty lands. We call upon you, Your Honor, because among the authors of this law are both Mrs Purtov and Mr. Arachami, to appeal to the President to sign this law, to honor the heroes, to take into account the vision and position of the families of the dead. What could be more important to us than counting the position of the families of the dead? Imagine how creepy it is to have a urn in your house today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, we've completed our discussions on these issues, finished our presentations, and moved on to the agenda. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable members of the People’s Republic of Ukraine are requested to hold a signal vote prior to the commencement of the consideration of the matter. Let me remind you that by holding the sensor button, you have to click on the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the signal vote. Please vote. [[12:12:12]] For 242 Against nine, holding four. Everything as usual. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. The first question is Bill 9626. This is a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the priorities of the Ukrainian state policy in the area of the occupation, reintegration and restoration of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[12:12:55]] For 279 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:13:17]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have been addressed with a letter from the Head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of the Interimly Occupied Territories of Ukraine, National Minorities and International Relations, inviting her today to the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Permanent Representative of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Tashev Tamil Ravilovna to give her the floor to speak during the discussion of the draft Decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Priorities of the National Policy of Ukraine in the area of depopulation, reintegration and restoration of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol (Registration No. 9626). In accordance with part three of article 6, part two of article 34 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I put to the vote the proposal for a speech within 2 minutes of the report and the report of the Permanent Representative of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Tasheva Tamila Ravilovna during the discussion of the draft decree for registration number 9626. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:14:28]] For 292 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the Chief of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to report on the above decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed for consideration by the draft Decision on a Statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Priorities of State Policy of Ukraine in the Area of Depopulation, Reintegration and Restoration of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the City of Sevastopol. From the beginning of the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol in 2014, when the Russian Federation, contrary to the current norms of international law, committed an act of aggression against Ukraine and occupied the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, the occupation of the Crimea Peninsula became one of the key tasks for all the authorities of Ukraine. With the outbreak of widespread aggression by the Russian Federation against Ukraine, the role and location of the occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol in direct military opposition to Ukraine and Russia has gained new emphasis. Ukraine, appreciating every citizen, with the aim of restoring the constitutional system in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, continues to make every effort at all levels and in any format, one of which is the Crimea Platform that is going through today, and the parliamentary summit of the Crimea Platform that will be held in October. The adoption of a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be an important step that will demonstrate to the senior members of the partner states that are members of the Crimea Platform as well as Ukrainian citizens, particularly those who live in a temporarily occupied territory, that the depopulation of the Crimea takes place with respect for those human rights and without any progress to the national interests of Ukraine. The draft decree is aimed at ensuring a legislative solution to the priorities of Ukrainian state policy in the areas of depopulation, reintegration and restoration of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. In view of the noted, distinguished colleagues, I ask you to support and vote in favour of this statement by the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u28	Thank you. The report invites the head of the profile committee, Andri Viktorovich Zadrožany, the head of the Human Rights Committee, the occupation, the reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, the national minorities of international relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the draft Decree 9626, which was developed for the initiative of the President of Ukraine’s representative in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, is of primary importance to our people, both those on the temporarily occupied peninsula and those who were forced to abandon him in connection with the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. The main positions of the project are, as Parliament’s head said, to the depopulation of Crimea, which will take place with respect for human rights and without any action by Ukraine’s national interests. In considering the draft decision, the Committee also took into account the fact that its adoption would be an important signal for senior members of the partner states that are members of the Crimea Platform and would contribute to legal certainty in the areas of the development of the priorities of the State policy of Ukraine in the areas of depopulation, reintegration and restoration of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol. In view of the above, the committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision No. 9626 (since 18.08.2023) to include in the agenda of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the ninth call and the outcome of the consideration. Involve the committee in preparing the relevant text for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out joint legal proceedings with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u30	Thank you. Please. Thank you, Andry Viktorovich. The word is given to the Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Tasheva Tamili Ravilni. Please, Tamila Ravilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! With the State Flag Day of Ukraine! First of all, I am very grateful for this Crimean day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By your decisions, you are approaching our victory and the share of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. Sag Oluniz – thank you for that. It's a special day. [[Applause]] The third summit of the International Crimea Platform brought many leaders of the free world to Kiev. And the Ukrainian Parliament is also demonstrating its leadership and unity in the reintegration of the Crimea. You have several initiatives in your agenda, and they are all about people, about ordinary Ukrainians and Ukrainians, for whom we fight and for whom we should welcome in free Ukraine, while the Crimean Peninsula is temporarily occupied and after the depopulation to ensure their safe reintegration and free life under the Ukrainian flag. The projects that you will be considering are the result of the joint work of representing the ministries of profile, the National Deputies and the Expert Environment. The proposed changes will help restore state power in the occupied territory and integrate the inhabitants of the temporarily occupied territory into Ukrainian education. This is the beginning of the introduction of reintegration legislation and the implementation of concrete steps that lead us to restore security and a sense of freedom for people who have not had it since 2014. A statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the priorities of public policy on the question of depopulation, reintegration and restoration of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol is of great importance. This is a powerful mediation for Ukrainians in both the temporarily occupied territory and the mainland of Ukraine, and of course for our international partners. We know.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u32	Thank you, Tamila Ravilna, thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we agreed from each faction and group to 2 minutes. I ask the factions and groups to sign up for this important statement. Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u34	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, please let our colleague get to this, to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u35	I welcome all of Ukraine to today's Festival, Flag Day. And I also welcome the Crimea Platform Summit in Ukraine. It is very symbolic that today Parliament will make a package of important decisions that are dedicated to our Ukrainian Crimea right on Flag Day. Because the "green men" broke our Ukrainian flags on the admins in Crimea in 2014, and the war started. And it is by raising our Ukrainian flags over every territory of our Ukrainian Crimea in Sevastopol that this war must end. And that will be the only just decision. Because our generation's mission is not to allow any part of our Ukrainian land, at which we pay such an overpriced price, to be assembled, united, and that our generation may once and for all put an end to the wars in our territory, precisely by restoring our territory within 1991. You know that our team from the first days of the war was against any deal with the enemy. Any of them! On the day of the signing of the first Minsk Accords, we made a public statement and said that this was not the way to peace, and unfortunately this was the way to war. We have also taken action against any Istanbul deal that deprived us of much. Only victory, strong and decisive victory! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u36	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u37	Hello. Please pass it on to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u38	Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! Today, on the Day of the State Flag of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, adopting a statement on the main priorities of state policy in the area of the occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, adopting a series of legislative initiatives aimed at demonstrating that the Autonomous Republic of Crimea was, is, and will always be, an integral part of Ukraine, that citizens of Ukraine living in the territory of the temporarily occupied Crimea are, in the territories of the temporarily occupied other areas of Ukraine, always part of the criminal regime of the Russian Federation, and that is why we, the national deputies, on behalf of all the Ukrainian people today, are calling on our citizens with the signal that we remember them, and we are doing everything we can to share the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine with the Ukrainian people as soon as possible, and the citizens who feel as soon as possible. The rest of the Ukrainian people will never leave them alone with the criminal racist regime. In terms of international law, in terms of statements, the position of all our Western partners, Crimea, is an integral part of Ukraine. And although the Crimea area has been temporarily occupied since 2014, Ukrainian citizens living within the Crimea have been under the zombie Russian information press for almost nine years, it is important that they remember that we are doing everything possible and impossible for Ukraine's speediest reintegration, and that Crimea, however it may be seen and would not want Putin, will be the egg in which his death is buried. The deoccupation of Crimea will mean the end of the toll regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u40	Please, Constance. That's what I understand. He's telling you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u41	Glory to Ukraine! Dear friends may think that this is another statement that has already been made by many Ukrainian parliaments, but it is more timely than ever. We see that in the West it is unclear who, because of some well-founded people, that some clericals are continuing to promote the soil, whether the Ukrainian State will be considering the issue of landing its territory, the exchange for NATO entry, perhaps for EU entry and so on. I am deeply convinced that this room is full of consolidation, as is the case with our country. Ukraine will not trade in its territory. Ukraine will fight for every inch of its territory. Thus, the statement clearly and clearly sets out the position taken in the area of the Ukrainian Crimea from the support of the Crimean Tatar nation, ending the media and ensuring that those who are responsible for the terror that is taking place in Crimea today not only with regard to the Crimean Tatars, the Ukrainians, the Russians who live there, who support Ukraine, receive punishment. So, my friends, clearly convinced that we will support this statement today, convinced that Ukrainian society supports us and provides a clear answer, whether it comes from the enemy or from the individual allies, that no one will trade in Ukrainian territory. Crime is Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u42	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavelka Jurija Aleksandrovitch, a member of the "Platforma for Life and Peace" group. Please. Alexiovich, I'm sorry. Yuri Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u43	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! We no doubt support this decision of the Supreme Council, which is aimed at a complex of actions and steps taken by the Ukrainian State to restore Ukrainian power in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol. We also express words of support and decision, actions being taken within the framework of the Crimea Platform. From this rostrum, we would also like to support every Ukrainian, every Crimean Tatar, every Ukrainian citizen who is now in the occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol. The words of support to hold on to them, for soon the Ukrainian state will come, the Ukrainian authorities, the Ukrainian army. Every Ukrainian who works today lives in an unoccupied territory, convinced that every day he does everything possible to restore Ukrainian integrity so that Ukrainian authorities and Ukrainian interests can return to every single patch of our land. I am confident that any criminal who has allowed the loss of Ukrainian territory, who today commits a crime against the Ukrainian State and Ukrainian citizen, will be held accountable. And the guarantee of this is the unity demonstrated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is demonstrated by all the political forces that are working and operating in the Ukrainian state today. Honourable Ukrainian parliamentarians, respected Ukrainian citizens, are confident that we will soon return to Crimea. I am convinced that our children will observe, rest on summer vacations in Crimea on our Black Sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u44	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, faction of the Political Party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u45	Please pass the word to the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u46	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u47	Thank you. "European Solidarity" will support this project. We stress that without the Crimea, it is impossible to restore Ukraine’s territorial integrity. Crime is and will be Ukrainian. The same will be true of Sevastopol, where we are to hold a parade of our final victory. We thank the Armed Forces of Ukraine, every Ukrainian soldier who is now giving their lives in counterattack for the liberation of the entire territory of Ukraine. All Ukrainian citizens in Crimea today should know that the time will soon come for their deliverance from Russian occupation. Obviously we're going to support any state action aimed at achieving these goals. We welcome our allies who are now taking part in the Crimea Platform, who are helping us with weapons, economic support, concern for our refugees, women and children. At the same time, we should not forget one of the fundamental obligations of the Ukrainian State, and that is what is not sufficient in this project – recognition at the legislative level of the national territorial autonomy of the Crimean Tatar people, guaranteeing the participation of Crimean Tatar representatives in authorities, the development of Crimean Tatar rule, culture, education, economics and customs. This is our commitment to patriotism and the heroic struggle of the Crimean Tatars in the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the movement of resistance in the occupied territories. We are guilty of dozens of Crimean Tatars who remain political prisoners in Russia. We should remember that in the 44th year, the Crimean Tatar people experienced the genocide that Stalin committed. Since the 14th year, this policy has continued with international criminal Putin. We must make every effort to have those representatives of the Crimean Tatar people who were forced to leave the peninsula return to him and those who were persecuted receive all the compensation. Any attempt to gain peace at the cost of concessions can have a negative impact on the rights of Crimean Tatars, and that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u48	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Movement Valery Sergiyovich, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine". Dmitruk, please, Artem.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! Two years ago, there was a meeting of the Crimea Platform, and we are now meeting the third summit of this initiative at the highest level. Although Russia’s large - scale invasion began on February 24, last year, Crimea’s illegal annexation began today’s war. With each year, representation in the Crimea Platform is only increasing. Crime is Ukraine. Crimea is Ukrainian. We spoke to the axiom yesterday, declare today and shout tomorrow. The Russian aggressor hoped that Crimea would be forgotten. We are aware that there is no simple solution to the Ukrainian question. The entire package of measures has to be applied to decommissioning -- both the military component and the diplomatic front, and the humanitarian dimension. Today Russia will either leave the peninsula alone, or it will be forced to do so. The Ukrainian statehood is inextricably linked to Crimea. I remind you that the Day of Ukrainian State was announced on the Day of Baptism of the Kiev Russia by Ukraine and Volodymyr the Great, and Vladimir Svetoslavic, I remind you, was baptized in Crimean Hersones. Today, on the Day of the State Flag of Ukraine, we have strong confidence that our grip will soon prevail over the Crimean mountains, the plains, cities, and villages. This will be the case. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u50	Heroic glory! Please, the final word of Bakunets Pavel Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues, and after that we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u51	Crime is Ukraine. And today's statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares that there is no other path to our victory, other than the occupation of Crimea and Luhanskina and Donetskina and Zaporozhye and Hersoniania, all of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. There can be no other end to this brutal war against our Ukrainian people, against our Ukrainian territories. And, of course, we believe that in the near future, thanks to the courage of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, all the temporarily occupied territories will be returned, unfortunately, by heavy blood, unfortunately. However, this is the only way our Ukraine will win. The Supreme Council today declares that there can be no other arrangement and no territorial arrangement for exchange for any alliance. We are saying today that Ukraine was, is and will be a free, independent state around a European beautiful, beautiful democratic family. And all these people who have unfortunately violated these European standards will be explicitly rejected from our Ukrainian lands by our soldiers or will be under an international tribunal. We believe in our Armed Forces of Ukraine, God and victory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u52	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I propose to accept, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on a Statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Priorities of Ukrainian State Policy in the Area of Deposition?, Reintegration? And the restoration of the Autonomous? The Republics of Crimea and the cities of Sevastopol Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[12:38:17]] For the 320. Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we agreed immediately on the next issue without discussion. It's 9548. I therefore propose to include in the agenda of the daily session a bill of Law 9548 amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to address specific issues of the administrative and territorial system of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[12:39:00]] For 312 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the resolution of specific issues of the administrative and territorial system of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea (Registration No. 9548). Please vote. [[12:39:30]] For 303 Decision taken. I propose to adopt in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to address specific issues of the administrative and territorial system of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea (Registration No. 9548). Please vote. [[12:40:01]] For 309 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Next bill, 9591. 9591 is a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on recognition of the results of the training of persons residing in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[12:40:38]] For 292 Decision taken. I propose to define a bill as urgent, shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of the consideration of the issue and consider today at the meeting. This applies to Bill 9591. Please vote. [[12:41:08]] For 294 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:41:28]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have. Can we not discuss this, colleagues? Can we not discuss this, Arthur? Please tell me. Well, let's write it down: two in, two in. Two factions want to discuss, we've had a discussion. But write down the factions that want to discuss. The word is given to National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u53	Please pass the word to Pottery Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u54	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u55	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. First of all, welcome to the State Flag Day of Ukraine. And we're now discussing the issues of occupied areas, we know, we believe, we have no doubt that the Ukrainian flag will dominate these areas. But now we're looking directly at learning. The topic is, we need to get the Ukrainians as involved as possible, which for some reason remained there, including our children, in Ukraine, and this issue needs to be addressed. But in our opinion, this should be decided not by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but by the Supreme Council by law, it is very important. Because unfortunately, we see that where power is given to the executive branch, we have huge problems. And if we're talking about the situation in the occupied territories right now, I want to remind you that literally in the days that Ukraine covered a wave of scandal, when our country was paying up to the last days, by July 2023, money made or not produced, or even non-existent solar power stations in the occupied territory over 300 million dollars. And today, on the question of whether these power plants exist, we don't know the answer. And the question is, if they exist, where did they send this electricity, we don't know the answer. But we know the answer to one question, and who got that money. And that's a disgrace, it's the parents of Vice President Rostislav Shurma's head of office, his own brother Oleg Shurma, other close-ups. Guys, it's a disgrace. During the war, we just throw away and give away money. We're told there's no military, there's no military, and there's nothing to steal? Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u56	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy to Black Dmitry Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u57	Please pass the word to Sergio Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u58	Sergey Babak. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u59	Good afternoon, dear fellows! What is this law about? This bill is certainly not about recognition of documents from temporarily occupied territories. We never recognize the educational institutions that are there, nor the documents that they publish. This draft law on the creation of a mechanism for partial recognition of learning outcomes and teaching terms for those children who were taught there. What exactly is not going to be in this attestation? Testing will not be for a number of specialities or professions that will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Clearly, we realize that no one will conduct an examination for those children who have been trained in military or law enforcement. Nor will the results of a master's degree or at an educational and scientific level be recognized, because this is essentially going to mean recognition of previous documents on education. In fact, this bill of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Ukrainian Citizens residing in a Temporaryly Inoccupied Territory for the continuation of education in Ukraine. This is a draft law, essentially about the struggle: about the struggle for every Ukrainian soul in the temporarily occupied territory. So we believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, we believe in counterattack, we believe that we will take back all our territories. Glory to Ukraine! And please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, Grigory Mikhailovich Nemira. Ivan Grigorovich, please, Kirilenko, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Head, colleagues! Ivan Kirilenko, a faction of the Fatherland, and once again, the purpose of the bill is to ensure the realization of the right of Ukrainian citizens living in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine to continue their education, which will facilitate the reintegration of the inhabitants of the temporarily occupied territories. Of course, it is primarily for the younger generation. And here I want to make the point: in every law, it's our job to keep the letter of the Constitution to the full, which means legal clarity, objectivity and definition. At the same time, however, there are laws where there is not only a letter but also a spirit. And this is precisely the case where the spirit of the law is decisive, because its approval, unanimously, I emphasize, we as the key legal and political body of the State give a powerful signal to ourselves and to the world that Ukraine is a civilised state fighting for freedom, independence, for our land, territory, and at the same time we are fighting for the souls of those temporarily in the racist captivity of our fellow countrymen. Our enemy is cynically fighting only for the territory, human life is of no value to them, neither its own nor, therefore, its strangers. And that's where the worldwide gap between our peoples and our countries is. It is now more clear than ever that Ukraine is not Russia and will never again be under the yoke of Russia. I'm saying this because that's the kind of signal that only we can give, not a separate ministry or department, as noted in the comments to this bill. We clearly vote yes, and in favour of shortening the terms, for the spirit of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u62	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy to the Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u63	Please hand over Pipi Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u64	Pippa Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u65	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Good afternoon, colleagues! Crime is Ukraine. This is evidently the majority of people in this world. And this bill is called upon to allow everyone who is now in Crimea to continue learning in Ukraine. It will be very important to have a list of specialties and what we will do. What will that be? Obviously, it's not military, and there's going to be a continuation of that. Before the second reading, we will need to work together and hear the order that Kabmin offers to be realistic and to be one that can be realized. In general, Crimea and the return of people to the cultural and educational component of Ukraine is a major challenge. For more than nine years there are people who may not have heard the Ukrainian word or read the Ukrainian history. In addition to the Crimean Tatars, most of the people living in Crimea were emotionally outside the territory of Ukraine. It's our big challenge to change it, to return Ukrainian education, to give an understanding of the value of the Ukrainian state. Because Crimea is Ukraine, it has been and will be again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u66	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Recognition of the Learning Results of Persons residing in Temporaryly Inoccupied Territory of Ukraine (Registration No. 9591). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:50:40]] For 270. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill, 6105. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibility for failure to comply with the legal requirements of the Commission on the establishment of a person deprived of his or her liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:51:21]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we can do without discussion, can't we? Then let's do two in, two in, two in. Write down who wants and vote. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of "European Solidarity". He's a hero, isn't he? Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u67	Yes, Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, today in Parliament is a real day of Crimea, and we welcome the fact that we have a serious discussion about the future of Crimea. Once again, I stress that the position of "European Solidarity" after the depopulation of Crimea is to create national Crimean Autonomy. We are proud that it is in our faction that the Crimean Tatars are represented. And we advocate that all those who violate the status of the Ukrainian national deputy be brought to administrative responsibility. There was a real disgrace last night. The government, which is under parliamentary control, held a veterans’ forum. Thus, this forum was not attended by veterans of this hall: Michael Bondar, Andrew Sharaskin, and other veterans who had fought since 2014. At this forum, the Head of the Supreme Council held there as a positive example of the need for veterans to work with a veteran training subcommittee, but the head of Irina Nikorak's professional subcommittee was not allowed into this forum. We demand that the administrative responsibility of those who today invalidate the status of a national MP, the U.S.A., whose demands are incomprehensible, prevent national deputies from taking action organized by the government. And we're convinced that if there were veterans present in this room -- andry Sharaskin, our Mikhailo Bondar, Irina Nikorak, who deals with veteran issues -- it would be a real discussion, not a picture of these, you know what government is endlessly presenting without understanding what he's doing. And we ask the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide an explanation of how long it will take, and that there are no deputies at the summit of the Crimea Platform. There are no deputies! We today have the Supreme Council of Ukraine, particularly the opposition, excluded from all state-building processes. That will not be possible in a European country. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u69	As for the Crimea Platform, Irina Volodymyrically, I suggest we get to know the report later, as it happens, with a picture, as you say, of this, and realize that there will be people's deputies in Ukraine not only from the ruling party, and then we will, as always, apologize or do something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Volodymyrovich Kovalczuk, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please, Medal.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, the bill submitted by the President of Ukraine. The main objective of the bill is to establish administrative responsibility for failing to comply with the legal requirements of the Commission on the establishment of a person deprived of his or her liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine in order to effectively implement its mandate and to ensure the protection of persons deprived of their liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine, family members and such persons. The Committee on Law Enforcement considered the bill and fully supported it, and we will work on it in the second reading, and we ask that we include 116 articles. Thank you, colleagues, and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u72	I'm sorry, 116 can't be included because the committee's decision is based. Dear colleagues, please, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u73	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the presidency, the honourable national MPs, the bill really sets the administrative responsibility for failing to implement the decision of the Commission on the establishment of personal security or personal freedom. The previous Bill of Fatherland supported, 6104, and for this bill we will also vote. And it is very important that it is approved on the day when the Crimea Platform is being held in Ukraine, because a large number of Ukrainian citizens who have lived and resided in the Crimea are being deprived of their personal freedom as a result of the aggression of the Russian Federation. Also important are the fact that the commission is set up to present future claims to the Russian Federation for appeals against specific people. It is very important for the government to finally create this commission, which is approved by our Law 6104, and for this commission to begin its important work as soon as possible. Because a truly large number of citizens have succumbed to these challenges and have been deprived of their personal freedom, it is necessary to document, establish facts, and present themselves to a Russian aggressor in the future. The committee decided only on the first reading as a basis. So will we.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt, on the basis of part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibility for non-compliance with the legal requirements of the Commission on the establishment of a person of personal liberty as a result of armed aggression against Ukraine (registration No. 6105). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[12:58:41]] For 271 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill, we agreed without amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] 9419-1, right? From the procedure? Please, Hero out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, it's just a very important discussion about the status of the national MP. It was said that the Crimean Platform had been invited to represent its deputies, including the opposition. Unfortunately, the Crimean Tatars of our faction are invited there by Majlis. Once again, we insist that there should be representatives and authorities in international action, and the opposition should be the national deputies of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u76	Thank you. I don't know that's why they're temporarily depriving them of the status of national MPs because they're being invited to a Western organization. But they do not cease to be national deputies, but the discussion is ongoing. Thank you. Parliament is a place for discussion. Dear colleagues, let's move on. 9419-1. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on minimizing potential oligarchic influence on political parties, improving public funding mechanisms and State control over political parties. We agreed to the Conciliation Council without amendment. I understand that there will be repairs. Smart people, how many amendments? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u77	To confirm the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u78	You're going to have an amendment to the confirmation, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u79	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, will there be any adjustments? It won't, will it? I'm asking again. Then let's move on to the amendments to confirm. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich, how much do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u81	Stuff 5-6 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u82	I'm sorry. Pottery, do you have any repairs? You're making some adjustments, aren't you? So let's have Hotcharenko speak first, because he's going to use the amendments that we're going to take into account, and then I'm going to pass it on to you for confirmation. Potterenko, how much. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u83	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the important question that we're going to consider right now is, really, I'd like to bring him up to speed. My colleagues, within five minutes, said the Chief of the Supreme Council. I'm asking you to release me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u84	In five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u85	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, an important issue, an important law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, of course, we have to improve the mechanisms for financing control over the activities of political parties. But, colleagues, it is also very important that we as a whole put the issue of monitoring the implementation of the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by how the implementation of Ukraine's laws is being monitored. Today, my friends, we have huge problems. What am I talking about? We're here with you exactly two months ago, a law adopted by Ukraine that provides very important things for our military personnel. In general, I want to say that there should not be a meeting of the Supreme Council, where we don't deal with matters of military service, very important to us. We've made decisions about military vacations, and that's very important and correct, although unfortunately there are still parts that don't. And here, too, you need control from the Mino Defense. And I urge our executive branch of power to work on this. But there was also a provision for payment to our military personnel, those categories that were left with nothing at all. These are categories: The protagonists, who have received it so far, unfortunately get 400-500 dollars a month, although our law already gives them completely different payments – 6,000 dollars a month. And they have to get them from June 1st. But now it's the end of August, and they haven't received any extra. These are senior military instructors of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the State Emergency Service, the Border Service, and all the classmates, the military, the police, the rescue workers who are now receiving a 400-500-dollar scholarship, and are expected to receive an additional 2,000,350 dollars a month, but have not yet received them. It's limitedly viable after the injuries that have taken place outside the state, it's actually a very painful group. People who, after their injuries, after losing their health for our country, for Ukraine, for our flag, which we celebrate today, but these people are left with virtually nothing because they're being taken out of state, then they get 700, 800, 600 bracelets a month. And nothing. These people would already be paid 20 thousand 100 dollars, for June 20,000 100 dollars, for July, but for this minute, August 23, they didn't get a penny. They're also instructors of teaching centers, which we've also prescribed from 15,000 to 30,000 dollars a month, but there's also a worse situation there, and there's not even a Cabinet ruling to date. My friends, I want to pay attention to the leadership of the Supreme Council, all of us, and there must be some kind of discipline that this is a government that just ignores our decisions that doesn't do its job. What is the point of our decisions, if they continue for months to come? So please let's pursue discipline, let's call the government here, let's listen to them. Why can't we see our ministers? I have, now the question was to the Prime Minister, why this is happening. Unfortunately, he's gone and I can't ask him that question. These are very serious questions. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Where is the payment to the Nazi Guard and the border guards they were to receive? They still haven't received a fight pay in June. For June! It's the end of August. So how long is this going to take, and how long are we going to tolerate this? That's why I'm talking. Important control mechanisms, we're adopting the Law on State funding mechanisms, but without our control over how our decisions are being implemented, it's completely empty. So I demand that we immediately address the Cabinet of Ministers, so that the issue of what we have to pay and comply with the Ukrainian Law on Payments to All is immediately resolved. I don't understand why the camera went up there. I can get up there if I need to, colleagues. Then I'll get up so I can be seen. Once again, the government has to work, the government has to do its job. If the government doesn't do that, we have to ask the question of resigning the government, because a government that doesn't work for the military that doesn't work for the state at that point, we don't need it. And I'm asking you to return an hour of questions to the government, we need to see government officials here and put all these questions directly to them, and let them answer us. I demand the work of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, all have made adjustments, all have made these amendments, no one will be. Let's move on to the amendments to confirm. Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov. Call the amendment number first and then report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u87	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. No. 62. The amendment foresees that for certain reasons, the party is relieved of its responsibility under the Law on Responsibility for Submitting to the National Agency for Preventing the Corruption of Incomplete or Untrustworthy Information in the Report. The list of explanations and the reasons for this release, in other words, leaves much to be desired. So despite the fact that we're going to have a war, the parties are going to get funding, and we're still giving them the opportunity to evade responsibility if we have misinformation, false information to NAMK. We're talking to you right now about the fact that we're returning the electronic declaration to all officials, and that's right, then let's not get the parties out of this norm. This is going to apply to the right-hand side of 62, 63 and 123. In fact, they are linked. So please place them on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u88	Dear colleagues. Please, Fris.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u89	Thank you, Mr. Head. Colleagues, I ask you to support these amendments, taking into account that they have been submitted solely for the purpose of providing the rightful information that is provided in the relevant reports. Why do we make it possible not to take responsibility at certain times? It's very simple. There are active areas of active combat, there are occupied territories, there are those parties that physically cannot provide information, because they don't have documentation that's burned. It is therefore necessary to make it possible, in specific legal cases, not to be responsible for information that is incomplete or that may to some extent be wrong. Therefore, please support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, 62 revisions by Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenka It's partially accounted for. The National Deputy of Razumkov requests such a decision to be made for confirmation. The committee explained its position. I'm putting 62 amendments in the editor's office, as it's part of the committee, for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:09:04]] For 290 Decision taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. Next, 63rd, right? Dmitry Alexanderovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u91	Ruslan Alexiyovich, the same reason, just put it to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u92	Okay. Dear colleagues, 63rd, the authorship of Cornienne Alexander Sergiyyovich, is taken into account in an editorial way. Reasonably, he asks the committee to make such a decision for confirmation. I'm putting 63 amendments in the editor's office, as it's taken into account by the editorial committee, for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:09:50]] For 292 Decision taken. The amendment remains an important committee. The next one is 123, right? Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u93	The same situation, but I see that I don't want to report very much, so we may not put it to the vote. I'm asking you to start running time from the beginning and I'll put two more revisions to confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u94	Start with the beginning of time, call the repair number, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u95	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. 7 revisions, very strange modification. In the country where the war is going on, in a country where money should be sent to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, directed to victory, directed to those areas that really need the support of the state: small, medium-sized business lending, aid to small-scale groups of people. We give them to the parties. Well, well, I understand that for many in this room, it is very important, much more important than our victory and our independence. But, dear fellows, please tell me that this business is so party that we're giving money to parties that can deposit it? This is some kind of business, is it party income? Explain to me, please. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u96	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u97	The very unused funds that have been spent on public activity, the political activity of the political party, including on deposit accounts, are placed. They account for the corresponding percentages. According to the National Anti-Corruption Agency, according to the committee, the specified deposit accounts should be placed exclusively in the government institutions of the bank. It was a principled position, and it had a committee standing on it. Therefore, please support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u98	Thank you, Your Honor. The amendment, authorship of Kornienka, Maslova, amendment number 7, is taken into account by the committee in part. The National Deputy of Zuzumkov requests that the committee make such a decision for confirmation. I'm putting the 7th amendment in the edition, which is partially taken into account, on the confirmation of the hall. Please vote. [[13:12:16]] For 264 Decision taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. And final, Dmitri Alexanderovich, number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u99	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. 11th Amendment. I realize that the deposits are important, and that interest for the party is going to be profit. But it seems that it would be possible, if the funds were not used, to send them where they were needed, to protect our country with you. So I don't understand the position of the committee, I don't understand the position of the people's deputies who support the idea of putting money, government money, on deposits to make interest. If you have not used them, put them back in the budget, give them to the army, give them to the need for victory. Not for the form we buy as a winter summer, not for apples, not for eggs, not for much else, but for the country, where it's needed. And with that right, you're actually determining that only state banks that don't understand what they're going to account for. Then open it for all, both public and private, so that everything will be equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u100	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u101	Frankly, I'm going to be surprised, because 11 of these are the laws of the People's Chamber of Commerce, and it states that the funds, including those of the State Bank, are accounted for in the current deposit account. So there's no change here that these costs have to be placed on the basis of a contract. And in general, the law provides, if the funds are not eventually used, they are going back to the state budget anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, the 11th amendment of Hončarenko Alexiyyovich is part of the committee. Dmitry Aleksandrovich, a national MP, puts this amendment on record. So, dear colleagues, you've heard the arguments of the parties. I'm putting the 11th amendment of the Hotcharyenk in the edition, where it's partially accounted for, for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:14:31]] For 289 Decision taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. All right, dear colleagues? Thank you. We've discussed this bill and we're moving on to a decision. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the minimization of potential oligarchic influence on political parties, the improvement of public funding mechanisms and State control over the activities of political parties (registration number 9419-1). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:15:19]] For 309 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a whole. Show me the factions, please. Next, your honor, next bill 9610. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on National Minorities (Communitys) of Ukraine on certain issues relating to the realization of the rights and freedoms of persons belonging to national minorities (Communitys) of Ukraine. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:15:58]] For 310 Decision taken. I propose to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills before the beginning of the consideration of the issue and to consider today at the meeting. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:16:27]] For 306 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we're not discussed at first, but I understand that. Colleagues, you're going to insist on whether we can. They will be. Then write it down: two in, two in, two in. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, since we haven't entered yet, I beg you, let's vote in favour of the reduced procedure. I would like to vote in favour of reviewing this bill in short notice until we have moved on to the next one. Please vote. [[13:17:21]] For 244 Decision taken. Now, two in, two in, two in. Please. Please, Viatrowicz Vladimir Mikhajlovich, faction of European Solidarity. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u103	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I am convinced that our December National Minorities Act is a quality and balanced document. And I know that many here share my opinion. We must admit that the changes to this law that we are considering do not make it better and more perfect. But we have to support these changes, because Ukraine has become a hostage, let's say, a openly prejudiced conclusion of the Venice Commission on the National Minorities Act. The fact that representatives of power and opposition, the expert environments, did not ash their heads, but in one voice admitted injustice, and sometimes the absurdity of such recommendations, still shows our national maturity and willingness to defend national interests. However, we cannot simply move away from the conclusion of the Venice Commission because the National Minorities Act is one of the seven preconditions for negotiations on Ukraine's EU membership. We have to take into account at least those recommendations that do not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and do not threaten the national interests of Ukraine. This was evidently the task before the drafters of the bill. So "European Solidarity" supports this project and calls for it not only to be adopted on a basis, but also in general. In this way, we will avoid political speculation on a sensitive subject, especially, in addition to time, which is actually very little, and give our negotiators a twilight in the form of an approved law. We urge our colleagues to take on national responsibility and to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. And after that, we vote, Your Honor, please prepare. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u105	Cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u106	Ivanovich Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u107	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill to remove any speculation about the fact that there are problems in Ukraine in the matter of national minorities. Because all of these things, which are very often heard on international sites by one of our neighbors, and these statements are made on the Kremlin's agreement that, as if in a Ukrainian state, some national minorities fall under sanctions or are being discredited -- that's all lies and nonsense. I would like to make it very clear as a representative of the Carpathians that such loyalty to national minorities as in Ukraine should be sought in many other European states. And I would dream that the national Ukrainian minority in those countries that talk the most about it would be treated in the same way that Ukrainians treat their national minority in Ukraine. To have Ukrainian schools there, Ukrainian libraries would be able to speak English, so that Ukrainian flags could hang on at least one official government building! This is what I would like to dream of having a similar attitude towards Ukrainians abroad, just as Ukrainians provide for the national minorities of other states in our country, then it will be fair. And this is the law we're going to vote on, and let's not let them talk nonsense anymore on international grounds that we have something at the legislative level that's not right. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u108	Heroic glory! Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I am one of the co-authors of this bill, and I would like to urge all of us during this very important discussion of political wisdom, not to be able to say everything from the rostrum what we want and what we need to say right now, some things to say later, some things to say in different words so that we can continue our European integration. What should be understood about this bill, as well as all other possible bills? They will be discussed and developed in full inclusive cooperation with national communities on the basis of our profile committee, on the basis of a special executive body, the central executive body, the State Agency for Freedom of Word and National Minorities, and on the basis of the Ministry of Culture, and so on, on the basis of government. And one of the European Commission's requirements for inclusive discussion and openness for national communities will always be fulfilled. The same is now being discussed in the National Unity of Variety Development Programme, and it is also being discussed in an entirely inclusive manner, and the voices and ideas of all, without exception, of the national communities of Ukraine will be heard. That's why I would ask from the team of authors, and I know that this is the position of the committee, and that's why I would give us the opportunity to get to the second reading, so that maybe some of the thoughts that are echoing, we would try to discuss and get to a quality text that would, in particular, reflect more fully what we would like to see with you in it. Therefore, a request to support the first reading is made. And we will immediately approach his discussion on an inclusive basis on the committee's second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u110	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Minorities (Communitys) Act on certain issues of the implementation of the rights and freedoms of persons belonging to national minorities (Communitys) of Ukraine (Registration No. 9610). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:24:10]] For 281 Decision taken. Let's move on. Please, Ivanka Orestovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Head, when this bill was considered, there was something strange, but I think it's a very dangerous story. Someone was given an order not to include the "Council" system to start recording the speech because you forgot to say what you would like to see this bill reviewed by a reduced procedure. And so I'm asking you to investigate and report to this room who is responsible for the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus's decision on behalf of the Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u112	What is not included in this entry? Okay, Ivanka Orestovna, we'll figure it out, I just don't understand the substance of the claim. Then you come up, we'll talk. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, 5839 is a bill, draft Law on State regulation of genetic engineering and State control over the circulation of genetically modified organisms and genetically modified products for food security (5839). It's a second reading. We agreed there'd be five minutes of Eutuszka, right? Three minutes of Eutusek and we can vote, dear colleagues, then? Ah, one minute of Black Sea. Yes, please. Who do we start with? Let's do it alphabetically. Eutushka, then Blackmaorov. After the alphabet. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u113	It's alphabetical. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, genetic engineering is obviously a huge deep science, and we all understand that. There is no point now in this room to convince you that it is the genetically modified products, the products that affect the health of the nation, our children, that ultimately we are affected by the entire gene pool of our country. Therefore, it is essential to approach the drafting and voting of such bills, understanding what is happening in those countries where the highest control of the power structures, where the lowest percentage of corruption in the authorities and authorities will be implemented when this policy is implemented. So, my fellow Members, I would like to point out that this bill cancels a number of control functions from the state, a number of bills are amending a whole list of laws that apply to, for example, the Pesticides and Agrochemicals Act, and a number of other bills that should, on behalf of the State, increase control over production, import, processing of genetically modified products. Dear colleagues, it's no joke. The bill, if even compared to European legislation, has a number of innovations that are completely incompatible with our national idea, with our country's future. So here the European Union is applying, let's say, not the declaratory procedure, as in our bill, but the one that requires clear compliance with legislation in procedures, I mean, again, processing, import and control. So, honourable colleagues, a huge responsibility now for anyone who will press the green button. Once again, this is about the future, this is about our country's gene pool, this is about, eventually, Ukraine. Scientists in the world have yet to prove definitively how genetically modified products affect life, reproduction, and ultimately function. Therefore, the "Fatherland" faction strongly denies the adoption of the bill, urges Parliament not to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u114	Please, a minute is Black Sea. And he's going to put 4 amendments to the confirmation in order, and then we're going to vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u115	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, this bill is truly Euro-integration, and it is very important. If our country is approaching the European Union, and in principle they need us even more now. But these 4 amendments in the complex that were voted on in the committee are essentially blind, because they create, in unequal conditions, markets for genetically modified products, which are the ones that give GMOs the ability to make wheat, barley, sunflower, soy, but somehow they're excluding rape, corn and sugar beets. This similar scheme was in the past call, when the soybeans and the VAT raps were excluded, so called soy rights, which we've already cancelled with you in this call, so I'm asking you to make the right choice, because it really creates the wrong market, which in some products is GMO, and in some cases it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u116	Please, what is the position of the committee? Please, Alexander Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u117	See, regulations 503, 516, 517 in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving State Food Security and Animal Development (8,290), they have already lost their relevance, so these can be disregarded.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u118	How about 522?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u119	There were lively discussions on this point. The committee took this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll make the four amendments in turn. You have heard that 503, 516, 517, in principle, the head of the committee does not object to the adoption of the new law. 522 is the definition of a hall. Please, I'm betting on 503 amendments to Haida's authorship. It's counted, isn't it? They're all accounted for. I'm betting on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:31:49]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Correction not counted. 516 revision of Haida's authorship. It's considered by the committee, but it's at the same time looking at confirmation. Please vote. [[13:32:15.]] For-54 The decision is not taken. The correction is not counted and rejected. 517 revision of Haida's authorship. She's a committee member. She's on the stand for confirmation, the national MP of Blackmoor. Please vote. [[13:32:46]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, and the final 522 revision of Haida. She's a committee member. The Montenegrins are asking for such a decision to be made by the committee for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:33:19]] For 237 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on State regulation of genetic engineering and State control of the circulation of genetically modified organisms and genetically modified products for food security (registration number 5839). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:34:02]] For 276 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Dear colleagues, next bill 9594. This is the draft Order for the execution by the Chiefs of Military Administration of Human Settlements in Vasilovsk, Melitopolski and Polosovsk Region of the Zaporozhye area of powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[13:34:42]] For 287 Decision taken. I would like to take a brief look at the bill (registration number 9594). Please vote. [[13:35:04]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-con? Sign up: two in, two in, and we go to the vote. Please give Heratchenko to Irina Volodymyrni, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u121	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u122	Sophia Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u123	"European Solidarity" will support this bill. But, colleagues, I would like to address a few very important questions in this context. First, of course, this direction is the Zaporozhye region, Vasilivski, Melitopolski, Pologovsk oblasts are also critical for our victory, and for, in particular, for the breakthrough of the road to Crimea. Therefore, there is a need for responsible military administration, but there is also a great deal of help. So in this context, first of all, I would like to point out that in addition to assigning and granting additional powers to military administrations, we need to ensure that these military administrations are competently, qualitatively and transparently carrying out their activities. Once again, I would like to remind everyone how military administrations, particularly in peaceful areas, are involved in the theft of humanitarian aid or are completely blocking any investigation on this issue. The second most important point is that now, in this direction, such as the Ivy Fund, the Case of the Communities, the Brothers in Arms, they've brought in a total of over 3 billion dollars in aid to the war zone. And here's the question, and how responsible are the purchases at the Ministry of Defense, how responsible are the investigations of these corruption scandals, particularly winter jackets that are purchased more than three times as expensive as they should be, and the minister tells us that they're all lying, and everything is going perfectly well. We need to be very clear about all the corruption scandals associated with our advocates. Because not only is it the appointment of military administrations, but, above all, the provision of our army, secondly, the military's confidence in military structures, in state structures, in MPs, in power, in officials, it determines how much we will be able to win in this war. If we don't solve the problems that now apply to frontal combat, it's actually going to be very, very difficult.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u124	Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. And then we vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will certainly support this bill. Today, this is one of the key areas where it is very difficult, but certainly Ukrainian troops are doing their extraordinary work and are moving heroically forward. Today, the actual creation of these three military administrations allows for the creation of a network that is divided, including in populated areas, which are also in temporary occupation. That work, which relies on military administrations to expose traitors, collaborators, according to those who commit war crimes, crimes against humanity are extraordinary. In fact, when military administrations work together with BAF authorities, intelligence, counter-intelligence, prosecutors, all the power structures, it allows for pre-emptive action and creates a real platform for all the points of resistance, including those who believe that the Russian invader has come forever in the near future. I think today's decisions open wide opportunities for all those who today have created real conditions for the activities of military administrations. Of course, the Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies, please prepare. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Ordinance on the implementation by the Chiefs of Military Administration of the settlements in Vasilivsk, Melitopolski and Polodovsk Region of the Zaporez area of the powers provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (registration number of Bill 9594). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:40:37]] For 272 Decision taken. It's been accepted in general. Dear colleagues, next bill 9314. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of the calculation of pre-trial investigation periods in terms of the state of war, which is the second reading. We agreed on this: a presentation from the Fatherland faction and one amendment is made, then one amendment from the EC faction, three amendments from the Voice faction and we vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Right, colleagues? Two changes will be made. Okay. Please, from Fatherland, Sergey Volodymyrovich, I understand. Please, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I'll have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u128	Please give me four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u129	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The Fatherland faction will certainly uphold this law. And we have absolutely no questions about the part of the law that regulates the terms of the crimes provided for in articles 437-439, which are related to the responsibility of Russian aggressors to solve armed aggression against Ukraine. We have only a few technical issues related to other issues covered by the bill. In particular, I can tell you right away, I'm going to ask for two amendments to my two, amendment number 10 and amendment number 14. Colleagues, all who have practical contact with the work of law enforcement agencies, we all know that in fact, such an institution as the unification and disunity of criminal conduct sometimes or, I would say, very often used for certain manipulations, the unifying of matters, the unifying of matters, the unifying of matters, the unifying of matters, the unifying of matters, the unifying of matters. Of course, we would very much like to see criminal conduct in the cases provided for in articles 437 and 439, and part of the first article 442, not as a matter of manipulation, so that we don't get stuck in a business article that then stops time for conduct, some activity-related articles, with political persecution of the opposition. So we proposed, not so many of these things, so we suggested that the U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine should not put businessmen in these cases to this kind of direction. Because what happens, in the case of liability, let's say, for violating the laws of war, the businessman is also glued to the case, in the case of this businessman, the term will no longer work. In order to avoid this, therefore, we ask the Attorney General to carry out such unifications. That's part one. And the second part is Amendment 14. What is this amendment about? In fact, the law is now formulated in such a way that the so - called factual cases, the fact that there are no reports of suspicion before the start of the active stage of the war — that is, by February 23, 2022 — do not include the entire period of the war as part of the trial. But I have a simple question, colleagues, but these are the cases that are being investigated, people are being questioned, eye rates are being conducted, even if there are no reports of suspicion and fact, but investigators are able to investigate. So we have an offer to do as we have done in all other cases, to limit this time frame, in these cases a 30 - month period of pretrial investigation. We think it's completely objective, it's perfectly normal, and it's absolutely correct. I want to emphasize once again that the "Paternity" faction will under any circumstances support this bill. We are fully in favour of enabling law enforcement officials to keep up with the crimes for which we punish those who have attacked our country. But we ask for these two amendments, namely, the possibility of unification. A 30 - month merger by the Attorney - General and a 30 - month period for actual matters will be taken into account, supported by a sessional hall, and the law will be normal and balanced, without any problems. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u130	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u131	In fact, a colleague makes two adjustments. Committee position: reject both number 10 and number 14. As far as number 10 is concerned. A colleague said that such matters were few, and I could not agree with them. Why? Because that is why this law has come into existence, that such matters are quite numerous, are matters of war crimes. About 50,000 cases are being investigated in the Security Service. So a very large number of cases will not allow the Attorney General to effectively merge or unify these cases. So I agree that maybe this discussion should exist, but separate from the lines. That is, it is not a question of unification or disunity. With regard to the amendment that the colleague is talking about (it's number 14), the Supreme Council of March 3 has already made a decision on the fact that the terms do not count on those criminal conducts that began before 24. Now we can't settle this issue back. Therefore, the honourable colleagues, and the committee, decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I'm putting two amendments to the National Deputy Vlasenko, 10th and 14th, in turn. These amendments have been rejected by the committee. You've heard the side arguments. I'll start with the first one. The 10th amendment of the National MP Vlasenko, she was rejected by the committee. I'll take her into account. Please vote. [[13:47:19]] For 148 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, the 14th National Deputy Vlasenko, was rejected by the committee. You heard the arguments. I'll bet 14 adjustments on that. Please vote. [[13:47:45]] For 111 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there are three amendments to the Voice. Who's it gonna be? Please, Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, I will. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm going to put one amendment on confirmation, but please give me two minutes. I would like to point out that this bill is necessarily to be voted on today because we have more than 10,000 criminal conducts in war crimes tomorrow if we do not support this bill today. That is why it is vital. But I'm asking you to support my number 17. It's a technical adjustment that's happening right now. When we voted that we didn't have to go into criminal conduct that was discovered after February 24th, we were technically misphrasing about criminal acts of corruption. And now we're closing cases with the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, because we're currently writing a deadline from the date, and I'm asking you to technically change it to the date of entry into Ukraine of the state of war. So let's make sure there's a clear date on which to bounce off and count the times. Because we already have precedents when criminal conduct is closed, and this will continue. Let's not give corruption a reason to abuse it. And I'm asking you to support this exercise, it's technical. That's what our anti-corruption authorities are asking for if we don't want our corrupts to leave the courtroom just because we misproscribed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u134	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, we have considered this amendment number 17 of our esteemed colleague Alexander Ustinov and have suggested that it be rejected. Why, Your Honor? We are proposing a clearer definition in the proposed text, which relates to two facts: the first is the introduction to the Single State Register and the second is the absence of suspicion. In fact, the correctness of a respected colleague of ours brings the situation back, which will give us some uncertainty. I'll add that we agreed on this story with the Attorney General's Office. I have a letter that supports the bill exactly as proposed by the committee. So I'm going to ask you to reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the 17th Amendment of Ustinov’s Authorship was rejected by the committee. You've heard the side arguments. I'll take her into account. Please vote. [[13:50:33]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we're done. We can go to voting for the law as a whole. Then, dear friends, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of the calculation of pre-trial investigation periods in terms of the state of war (registration number 9314-d). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:51:24]] For 278 Decision taken. Alexandre Sergiyovich. Don't break up, colleagues, just a second. Alexandre Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, at Conciliation, it was decided to entrust the bill with the immediate signature of the bill, as well as the two that we accepted from the Crimea issues. So I'm putting to the vote an immediate signature and immediate referral to the President of Ukraine of the Supreme Council, as a whole, of bills for registration numbers 9548 amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the resolution of certain issues of the administrative and territorial system of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and 9314 on the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Code on the characteristics of the calculation of the terms of pretrial investigation in terms of the state of war, and we've just voted on it. Then I place this motion on the vote. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u138	And that's how the application is signed. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? 9548 and 9314. 9626 is a decree, it's signed immediately. It is impossible, to thank the god and the regulation, to block it by blocking orders. Please vote. [[13:53:05]] For 291 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor. Alexander Sergiyovich, I beg you to lead the way. Thank you, colleagues. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u140	Please, colleagues. Yeah, 9185 next bill. We agreed on it without discussing it, it's a second reading. No one's editing. 5 minutes - Honcharenko Alexiyyovich, please. And let's go to the vote. Draft Act amending the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve criminal penalties under martial law. Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko, five minutes away.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are considering an important law on improving criminal punishment during wartime. Friends, but the main thing is that we have to look with you and put a dot on this, not that the cross, but we have to say that corruption in a state of war is stealing, it's life, it's death, it's something that's definitely unacceptable. And in general, for corruption during a state of war, it has to be life and nothing else. Unfortunately, we see more and more information on the day after day, it appears, about corruption and suspicion of corruption during the war, and, most disgracefully, in the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, which is just a huge challenge and is a huge problem and a disgrace, and what we have to deal with right now, because, in every case, it is the lives of our soldiers, the lives of our heroes, it is our victory, and whether this victory is going to be, because every such scandal, it puts in question the support of Ukraine, it questions the faith of the Ukrainians in its country, and it must be stopped immediately. I'm literally going to remind you of a few things lately. The corruption scandal over the purchase of food at some cost, the 17 - year - old eggs have already become a meme. And we were told by the Minister of Defense of Resnickow that nothing was going on, that's not true. Then it turned out that everything was, in fact, bought, yes, changed, and so the eggs were 17 bracelets. Do you know the punishment for this? We've got to get rid of 17 bracelets. They wanted to buy, bought, and made a profit at a time when every Ukrainian carried every penny to help the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The potterenko center is a drop in the ocean of Ukrainian volunteering. We are at this time all we can give. Children come to us for free to learn English in all the cities of Ukraine and bring a bracelet, 5, 10 on the U.S.S.S.A., on the drone, on the anti-drone, on all the support, and at this time someone is just robbing, the Ministry of Defense is robbing state funds. Guys, this is unacceptable. Sadly, it did not stop. Then there's the scandal about the tournaments. It's just that it's beyond buying Chinese tournaments in medicine kits for our soldiers who don't save lives. Each of these tournaments bought is perhaps the life or health of our heroes. Well, how could that be, in principle, how could this happen? We hear some misunderstandings again, and it's all going again. Here's a question for the Medical Command. And this is our Department of Defense. Next, the last winter dress - buying scandal when winter clothes were bought three times, when it came from Turkey, from a company, there was actually some Pletnów owner who left Ukraine in April 2022. April! And in August, he creates a company with which the Ministry of Defense makes deals and starts sending funds there. Well, it's just that it's some kind of star presidency scheme that doesn't even exist in Ukraine. And they're still going in these jackets that cost one price, and they're changing the invasion, the broken invasion scheme, three times as much. And this is all paid at the expense of Ukrainian taxpayers. And again, the Ministry of Defense said, "No, no, no, that's all a lie. Turns out it's all true. There was an anti-corruption committee meeting today, it's all confirmed, all data is confirmed. The Minister of Defense of Resnikov did not even come, he did not come to Parliament. Well, why don't you explain to me how that could be? Where's Reznikov? How long is this going to take? Why doesn't he come out? I have a lot of questions. Where's "the hour of questions to the government"? I want to ask Reznik, how long will the corruption in the Ministry of Defense last? How long is this going to take? If we're told he's not involved, either. Well, either he's involved, or if he's not involved, what kind of manager is this? We have to put this dot down or we're gonna lose or we're gonna lose everything. Corruption in war kills.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u142	Thank you, Alexeiyovich. Please invite the deputies to the hall, and let's proceed to the vote. I would like to propose a second reading and, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Act amending the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine on the improvement of criminal penalties under the conditions of martial law (registration No. 9185). Please vote. [[13:59:42]] For 267 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The factions. Let's go to the next bill. It's a bill with registration number 9293. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve government administration and regulation in the provision of cloud services. It's a second reading. "Paternal" takes off the edits. Let's go to the vote. Colleagues, do I then put to the vote an offer to accept in the second reading and in general with the necessary techniques? Legal amendments to Bill No. 9293. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve government administration and regulation in the provision of cloud services. Please vote. [[14:00:44]] For 258. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Next bill, also second reading, 8223. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to protect human beings from the effects of ionizing radiation. Zimbaluk's performance. Three minutes, please. Alexiyyovich, do you have any papers or performances? Showtime. Okay, so now it's three minutes, Zimbaluk, three minutes, Alexei Alexiyovich, and we're going to vote. Please. Tsymbaluk, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u143	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, colleagues! The bill is Euro-Integration and "The Fatherland" supports it in second reading and in general. I'd like to thank the committee because, as a result of the second reading, the bill has gained a different weight as a professional. And we thank you for that, because the important copyrights of colleagues from Homeland were taken into account by our faction. In fact, before the second reading, the definition of the term "protective measures" has been excluded, which has a specific legal burden. And that's important. The second reading is also amended when Kabmin is entrusted with the organization and overseeing measures to protect a person from the effects of ionizing radiation on the respective territories and relying on district administrations, that is, local government authorities. Two critical remarks have been removed before the second reading. First. With regard to the limitation of an effective dose of radiation, which was not in line with the European directive in the first reading. It is indicated that doses are allowed to be higher in one year, i.e. only in one year, and not in any single period. If the average annual dose over any five consecutive years, including a limit exceeding 20 millisiver, does not correspond to the directive, because the first reading instead of 20 showed 100 units. Similarly, it's specified that the increase in the limit on the crystal of the eye is allowed in just one year, not in any one period. This, experts say, is extremely important. And the next. It is specified that the limit of the equivalent dose for skin, the application of any area of skin in one centimeter, does not depend on which area is irradiated. This is also in line with the directive. Given these standards, the "Paternity" team believes that we can vote in the second reading and in general, because in fact the critical norms that we didn't support in the first reading have been removed. And this, we think, is a constructive victory. Thank you. Please vote in second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u144	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u145	Thank you very much. It's a very important law. We're also going to support it. The question of ionizing radiation, the issue of radiation, the issue of radiation safety, is very acute today. Today, for the first time in human history, one of the nuclear power stations, the largest nuclear power station in Europe -- the Sealed Nuclear Power Plant -- is located directly in a war zone, is occupied by barbaric Russia, which is absolutely insane, and we see that they are willing to put simply the security of the entire world at risk that they are doing extremely dangerous things there. So this is a very important question for us today, and we need to take care of it and keep an eye on it. But what's very important to us, of course, is that we don't have to let radiation on the subject of radiation security be a subject of corruption. Because unfortunately, my friends, today we see a scandal behind the scandal when we learn about it. Every day, I don't know, a few days, about the new purchase of the Energoatom for the Zaporez nuclear power plant that's in occupation, the gloves, that's something else, guys, that's a disaster. It's an occupied nuclear power station. What are we buying? How do we pass it on? Who is it, and how does it get there? In general, I would like to remind you that under all international law, the occupation is responsible for the situation in a particular territory. And so far, unfortunately, the Zaporozhye nuclear power plant is occupied by the Russian Federation, and it is the Russian Federation that is responsible for all that is happening there. So what's this scheme when the money goes to Zaporez nuclear power station? Friends, it's who and how, what radiation has already, you know, happened that it seems that such a shame can be done and that people don't see it. People see it. And, my friends, I want to take advantage of the possibility that I'm finishing my speech, and we've got some new records here about one of our colleagues, Mikli Tischenka, and I hope he's in the session room, and I want him to take advantage of the opportunity and the right to a replica, and he just said that this audio came out that he was once there reciting these call centers and he was going to collect money from them, and he's in parallel looking for a place under a restaurant in Dubai? I understand that there's Tishchenka, Thailand, we already know, now Dubai. Dear Mr. Mikolo, I would like to hear your reaction to another corruption scandal involving our Supreme Council. I hope you'll excuse all of this right now. We're waiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u146	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose to the vote a proposal to adopt, as a whole, a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill for (registration number 8223) the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to protect human beings from the effects of ionizing radiation. Please vote. [[14:08:01]] For 274 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Next question of the agenda. also second reading, Bill of Registration 9402: Draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and other laws of Ukraine on the harmonization of European and North Atlantic standards of procedures for the declaration of military equipment and other goods. Fatherland, three revisions or a performance? Vote. Let's go to the vote, colleagues. I would like to propose a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill under registration number 9402, the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and other laws of Ukraine on the harmonization of European and North Atlantic standards of procedures for the declaration of military technology and other goods. Please vote. [[14:09:10]] For 280 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The factions, please. Then a couple of questions without discussion, it's a denunciation issue. Registration No. 0209: Draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes. I would like to take this as a basis, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[14:09:56]] For 278 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Next bill under Registration No. 0215: Draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income and property taxes. I suggest. I'm betting on the vote to accept as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[14:10:39]] For 273 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Next, 0211. Why don't we talk about it? Discussed. All right, colleagues. Then we turn to question 0211: the draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the employment and social protection of citizens of Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus working abroad, and the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the amendments and additions to the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the employment and social protection of citizens of Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus working abroad. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. [[14:11:37]] For 221 Decision taken. Please write two in, two in, two in. Please, Fatherland, Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we are again discussing a bill on denunciation of the termination of contracts with Belarus in this case, the next one will be with the aggressor country of the Russian Federation, with the SND. I would like to remind my colleagues that last plenary meeting, the chairman, the Head of the Supreme Council said that, according to his information, the Cabinet of Ministers should submit to the next plenary meeting, and the next plenary meeting today is taking place, a complete package of proposals for the denunciation of contracts relating to the Russian Federation and the SND and Belarus. As we can see, this did not happen. According to our information, for tomorrow's session, a small packet is being prepared, I'd call it. According to information available at the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the state of the matter so far, despite the request, three such appeals, the head of the Supreme Council to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Cabinet of Ministers, has not prepared such proposals. So I want to ask you again what is going to happen in our country in order to finally, once we've had a year and a year and a half, we haven't had more than three hundred bilateral agreements with the Russian Federation, more than two hundred agreements with the SND, and more than a hundred existing treaties with Belarus. I hope that the Head of the Supreme Council will still get the answer, because if not, I think we should take some other measures regarding the Cabinet of Ministers and its inaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u148	European Solidarity, Hotcharyenko. Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko. Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u149	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. As we can see, we've taken on so much from Belarus that we can't, at last, with this occupied Russia, unfortunately with this regime of puppet Lukashenko to break all of these agreements. This must be done once and for all. Because we see this son of a bitch come out on a periodic basis and something's barking at our country. Few deaths are coming from there, few from there have come to kill and cut us in Butch, Irpen, Gostomel, to kill Ukrainians, and he's still coming out, talking and talking. This was his last interview with another traitor, Diana Panchenko. By the way, I have a question, where is the response of the Ukrainian Security Service? Where did criminal cases involving these journalists and such as her, who served Russian interests, then swore something in the love of Ukraine and the U.S.S.A., then it all turned out and ran back to Russia, to Donetsk and elsewhere, and from there, they now serve the enemy and the invader, and then they have in Ukraine apartments, houses, wonderful living, some working? And we can see from this bastard Panchenko. I demand the Security Service's response to all of this! And I want to tell Lukashenko. You bastard, listen to me: we're gonna find you, we're gonna hang you on a stake, we're gonna show you, we're gonna show you to the kids, they're gonna see what's going on with bad guys like you, who are destroying your own country that's destroying our country! You'll be responsible for everything! You can only dream of The Hague, you won't live to see The Hague!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u150	Please, "Golos", Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich. Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u151	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Your Honor, Mr. Alexander, Mrs. Oleno, since there is no Mr. Speaker, he was literally six months ago giving an assignment in this room at my request to the Foreign Affairs Committee for the preparation of a package of all the contracts that need to be denounced. I have been asked to give the committee's head one more time so that, at last, this big package, not the pack, but was prepared and considered by the Supreme Council at the next meeting. It is shameful that more or more than half a thousand such treaties under the Belarus Treaty with the Russian Federation within the framework of the so-called Union of Independent States have been concluded and are still in force. I think it's humiliating, and we have enough intellectual ability, together with the Supreme Council and the government, to denounce and vote with one packet of this whole story that has to be thrown into the trash. I would like to thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u152	Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose to vote the proposal to adopt, on the basis and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill under Registration No. 0211: draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the employment and social protection of citizens of Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus working outside their countries, and the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the amendment and addition to the Agreement between the Government of Belarus and the Republic of Belarus on the employment and social protection of citizens of Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus working abroad. Please vote. [[14:18:25]] For 268. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. The next bill is out of the question, so don't split up. Draft Law of Registration 0212 on the withdrawal of certain international agreements concluded under the Commonwealth of Independent States. I'm betting on the vote to accept as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[14:18:59]] For 264 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Next, perhaps without further discussion? Okay, "European solidarity" requires discussion. With registration number 0216, the draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the International Road Connection and the Protocol on the Application of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the International Road Connection. I'm betting on the vote to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[14:19:43]] For 226 Decision taken. Sign up: two for, two for, please. Please, Servant of the People, Seminian Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u153	Oleg Seminsky. Please pass the word to the Network.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u154	Alexander Alexandrovich Network, please. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation at its meeting discussed the draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on International Road Connection and the Protocol on Application. We've come to the conclusion that we're going to take it as a basis and in general, we're going to take into account technical legal rights. So please support this bill and terminate this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u156	Please, European Solidarity, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u157	Please pass the word to my colleague, Marina Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u158	Marina Ionova, please, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the honorable presidency, the decision to terminate this treaty has really come to an end, and all other agreements have to be denounced with the aggressor country. "European solidarity," of course, will speak for and support this decision. But together with our international partners, we still have to reinforce those sanctions against the Russian Federation, against Russian investment. And this money must be directed not only to rebuild and rebuild our country but also to compensate families and families for the treatment of the injured. And so parliamentary diplomacy must continue to demand from international organizations an adequate response, an adequate response to the Black Sea maritime blockade, nuclear blackmail, to undermine the Kahov GES, to the targeted killing of our civilian citizens and, of course, to the deportation of Ukrainian citizens, primarily children. And international partners have to strengthen and expand economic sanctions and restrictions on Russian atomic energy in terms of agribusiness and maritime trading operators. But at the same time, we in this room alone and in other government offices need to maintain unity, not in words, but in actions. Together, we have to work on this parliamentary diplomacy, not to cover up some of the parental moments of the monotony itself, and to stop the parliamentary interaction with the whole world. Together, we need to prepare systemic changes for our veterans and veterans, rather than allow any or other MPs or veterans depending on their political affiliations, submit laws to the security and defence sectors in a timely manner, restore freedom of speech and finally remove the pro-Russian representative from the head of the Freedom of Speech Committee. For us, "European Solidarity", more than 9 years of war, yet ideology is the provision of armies, veterans, the movement towards the EU and NATO and freedom of speech. And so I would still like to be in this room with you at such a bloody time of war, our task here is to have all of these pro-Russians.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u160	Two. Three are from the committee. Please, Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, Voice. Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. Once again, I appeal to the Presidium to entrust the Foreign Affairs Committee, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to work out the number of contracts so that we can vote with a package, not for the 16th month of war, and not for the 16th month of the war, to be ashamed of voting on these individual unfortunate drafts of the laws on withdrawal from certain agreements. I ask you to take this seriously, and once again, I appeal to the fact that Parliament in promo and intellectual capacity must be able to break all possible agreements with the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus, which have been made and the SND framework. I am already silent that we still do not understand our attitude toward the Islamic State of Iran. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u162	Thank you. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u163	Mikhailo Cimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u164	Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u165	Please pass the word to Gregory Nemira.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u166	Please, Nemira.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, think of the absurdity we are discussing. For more than 9 years since Russia annexed Crimea, more than 9 years since Russia annexed Donbas, Russia has fought a large - scale war against Ukraine and occupied 20 percent of the territory of a sovereign, independent Ukraine. And we're still discussing the exit of the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on international car connections. Well, that's ridiculous. The question is, why is this happening? Colleague Bobrowski said that it was necessary for the committee to deal with the matter with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I want to inform you that there have already been repeated references to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as a result of which I think we are dealing with a situation where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has self-delivered itself from this matter, because the Ministry that initiated the relevant agreement has to initiate and terminate this agreement. But remember how many ministries we've created and how many have been disbanded. I think it's actually sabotage. We have to put an end to this disgraceful fact and finally get the Cabinet of Ministers to submit to Parliament as soon as possible, as promised by the Head of the Supreme Council, a complete package of documents relating to the withdrawal of agreements between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, Ukraine and within the framework of the SND, also some agreements relating to Belarus. Only after that can we view our case as done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u168	Let's go to the vote, dear fellows. I am betting on the vote to adopt the proposal on the basis and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the bill for registration number 0216, the draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the International Road Connection and the Protocol on the Application of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the International Road Connection. Please vote. [[14:27:32]] For 262 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Bill No. 8316: Draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Critical Infrastructure Act (the settlement of disputes which are subject to State ownership of critical infrastructures held by state ownership) (second reading). Will anyone insist on editing or performing? Please, Motherland, five minutes. And "European Solidarity." A lot, huh? Okay. Then let's now, as they say, let the Fatherland go and move on to you. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich, who will you be? Please, Vlasenko, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's another question: who lets who go? In fact, I want to remind you that property rights in any country are a front-line story that is a state-creating one. The integrity of ownership is the fundamental principle of any economy and any state. "Paternity" supported bills that were in order. If a State is required to protect against armed aggression to temporarily remove certain property from its owners, we understand the need to do so. The only thing we don't understand is why two years after the end of the war, we can't get a lawsuit against those owners who think their interests are being violated. We don't understand why two years after the war, the owner can't get his property back, and the state shouldn't count on him. What did we expect from the application of the Law on State ownership of critical infrastructure? We expected that the wages of the Scrooge Management wouldn't amount to tens of millions of dollars a year. We expected the Ukrainian Armed Forces to receive oil products and gas at a cost or a small price, not with the huge spikes that are today. We are in favour of allowing the Ukrainian State to influence private business by rebuilding its own economy into military rails. But we are absolutely against the State taking property from its owners arbitrarily, sometimes even what is not relevant is not necessary to fight the aggressor, and then talking about that during the state of war and two years after that, no one can defend their rights anywhere, including the court. This is all, in my opinion, completely questionable from the point of view of the Ukrainian Constitution. Yeah, I'm saying that the bill, I'd put it so softly, became better compared to the first reading, but it still didn't come out of the unconstitutionality of its. If, on the first reading, we were asked at all to say that the courts are not considering these disputes, today the formulation is softer, but still questionable and one that allows the state to essentially get control of any property and to keep this control uncontrollably, sorry for such a embargo, throughout the war state, as well as for two years from the end of the war state. I would like to stress once again, if, during the war period, this could still be clear, if this potential is completely uncorruptionive to protect Ukraine from armed aggression, then two years after the war, it's a completely unwarranted story. This is evidence of total disregard for basic principles of jurisprudence and complete disregard for such institutions as private property. I want to say to everyone who talks a lot about the investment climate after the war today, it's not that they don't improve the investment climate after the war, it's that they're destroying even the fragile preconditions in Ukraine today in order to invite an investor. No conscious investor who is an effective, sound, European investor will come to Ukraine, realizing that his property can be banned and he will not even be able to defend it in court if that property has at least the least bearing on what we call critical infrastructure. So I think that by these laws we are doing a bear service to create an investment climate in Ukraine. And that will certainly lead to a large number of people who could invest money in Ukraine's economy and now during the war, and especially after the war is over, they just won't do it. So, dear colleagues, I urge you to think seriously about what to do with this law and how it should be written. And Skrnafta has to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I'm back for a second. Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to take their seats because after the talks, I would like to welcome you to the Parliament Hall of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Finland, Mr. Pettery Orpo, as well as the delegation of the Republic of Finland, which is in Ukraine today. [[Applause]] [[Presentation in a Foreign Language]] Thank you Mr Prime Minister, thank you for your visit Ukrainian Parliament and thank you for all the support for Ukraine. Thank you once again. Thank you our negotiation ensures to the Victoria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u171	We're moving on, colleagues. Sergey Volodymyrovich, you don't do the editing, do you? No, it's not. Okay. "European Solidarity," do you have any rights or just confirmation? On account of you? That's what I'm talking about. Then, please, let's start with the accounting licenses. Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please. Tell me the number of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u172	Amendment number seven. My colleagues, I would like to point out that, above all, this bill cannot be critically voted on. Because it's characterized by both businessmen and investors and all the right people, and the public environment as an anti-constitutional document that has to legitimize the rightful will. What is now proposed by this bill will completely overturn all possible investments, it will not create confidence in our Ukrainian state, in the economic processes that are taking place, and in fact this bill, it legitimizes the raid on large accounts, and it legitimizes the rule of law on property. Not enough of what's breaking both the Constitution of Ukraine and very many provisions of different laws, but in fact this bill, it's pushed into the hall, I'm sorry, because it's not there, and this law is about what we can't do in the rule of law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u173	Please, I'll bet. Committee, answer. Edit No. 7 of the People’s Deputies of Fedena, Arieva, and Pauline The committee's dismissed. It refers to the names of changes in article 8. Please, Fedienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u174	Thank you. The committee's amendment was rejected. And I would like to add that after we've worked on this bill, the key point that we left behind is that these are public objects, and critical infrastructure gives more than 50 percent of the state property itself. And the point is, right now during the war, the state of war does not have to break up state property, my friends. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u175	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote to take into account the regulations of the National MP of the Federation and colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[14:37:21]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next, Sophia Romanovna. No. No.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u176	Amendment number 22. I want to emphasize again. This bill, it legitimizes raiding, repressing property and violating any legal procedure. In particular, what is proposed in this bill? Anti-constitutional prohibitions on the use of court-martial measures during the course of war proceedings and two years after the end of the state of war; the cessation of bankruptcy proceedings and the prohibition of their detection; the prohibition of the execution of court decisions in violation of article 129-1 of the Constitution of Ukraine; the legalization of state-owned raiding of entire enterprises and the excessive extension of powers of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Naccomsia from securities and the stock market and other structures in respect of any property. This violates all standards of civilized coexistence, including business, and states as such. Please support 22 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u177	I bet the vote on the proposal to take into account issue 22 of Fedinda, Arjev, and Pauline. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[14:38:53]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The edit remains rejected. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u178	It's number 35. In fact, there is no normal and adequate argument that during the two years and after the end of the war, normal mechanisms and communications cannot be introduced, and the restoration of the capacity of objects, the recognition of bankruptcy, the prosecutions, and so on. Please tell me, what will be done within two years of the end of the war? "European Solidarity," in particular, I propose not more than 90 days from the day of the cessation or cancellation of the state of war, but in fact, it's all over the place for two years. And I would like to remind you that we already had one bill that allowed for the reriding of any enterprise, any territory without a right of appeal for the next 10 years after the end of the war. This is a very painful trend. So I suggest you support the 35 to limit the 90 days after.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u179	I'm betting on a vote to take into account the number 35 of the National MP of the Federation and colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:40:26]] For-68 The decision is not taken. The edit remains rejected. What's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u180	No. 52. And I'm so impressed that my colleagues in the majority don't quite understand what they're voting for and what sort of raiding mechanisms they're legitimizing. In particular, the analysts who examined the bill concluded that, in particular, it would have a very negative impact on the country's energy sector. As they point out, it completely destroys market mechanisms, such as so - called payment guarantees. Energy-resource owners, such as coal, natural gas, will not implement production to operators in advance, realizing that there are no legislative mechanisms to protect the seller's right to maintain compensation for the supply of products. You'll realize that you're ruining the basic market mechanisms and mechanisms of communication and power, business, suppliers and so on. There has to be a transparent and responsible mechanism instead of just translating everything into manual mode. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u181	I bet. What's that? Number 52. I bet on the vote that the number 52 national deputies of the Federation, Arieva, and Paulie were rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:42:08]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. The edit remains rejected. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u182	Rule 74. I would like to point out that the International Chamber of Commerce, in particular, also stresses that, as a result of the adoption of the bill, equipment suppliers will not sell goods to state-owned critical infrastructure operators because of the per cent risk of not getting paid and the absence of judicial mechanisms to protect their rights. You listen, that is, we understand that there is a state of war, there must be limitations. But when neither business nor citizens in court can defend or at least establish a framework for civilized cooperation, well, we're jumping into a totalitarian state. Enough is enough for the Ministry of Defense to pay a hundred percent for nonexistent contracts for 36 billion dollars. Colleagues, I'd like you to support the 74 to somehow limit this impenetrable.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u183	And 74 amendments are counted by the committee and it's not yours, so please, maybe something. It's written in a different way in the table. Then let's check the table or I don't know. But on this side, I can't take it into account, it's already accounted for. Are there any other wishes on the following lines?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u184	83 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u185	Wait, I'll see if she's okay. No, it's also counted by another MP. Your turn is 81.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u186	Give me a different table because I have these in my table.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u187	Yes, your 81st, closest to 83rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u188	What is the situation with different tables? I'm so sorry, everything was fine at first. Did the same amendments change between the first and second readings before they were brought into the hall or whatever?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u189	I can't answer that. Sergey Volodymyrovich, do you have a license in your spreadsheet? You don't? Well, it's 81st probably, I think. Please, 81st Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u190	Okay. 81st, they gave me a new table here. It's generally wrong that the tables change at the last moment and before moving into the room for discussion. But I would also like to point out that all of the things that I've talked about before they enter the heating season, except for the destruction of the Ukrainian energy system, can be accompanied by additional crisis phenomena for operators, lack of fuel supply, energy resources, lack of necessary equipment for repairs. And in this context, I would like to point out that these bills break down the infrastructure of the Ukrainian state, and the critical infrastructure breaks down. And when it is not possible to establish clear rules of cooperation, when there are no transparent mechanisms of responsibility, of complaint, and so forth, such bills cannot be adopted, they are pure raiding and impenetrable. Please support 81 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u191	81 papers, rejected by the committee, the National MP of the Federation, and colleagues. Please vote. The offer is to consider. [[14:46:09]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. The edit remains rejected. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u192	Amendment number 90.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u193	90 revisions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u194	I would like to point out that the prohibition of judicial dispute over critical infrastructure objects is not in line with the content of article 13 of the Constitution, which provides for the protection of all subjects of ownership and tenure, and that all subjects of property rights are equal before the law. It seems to me that the Constitution of Ukraine is and should remain the main and fundamental legislative act that we have and on which the activities of the Supreme Council, committees and everything else should depend. I understand that parliamentaryism is on the rise. I understand that the status of a national MP is being annulled when the Nardeps are not allowed to attend any of the meetings, but, I'm sorry, the Constitution is clearly violated in this bill. And that would be the basic basis for not even taking him to the hall. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u195	I'm betting on the vote number 90 of the people's representative of the Federation. The committee's turned down, the offer's taken into account. Please vote. [[14:47:43]] For-61 The decision is not taken. The edit remains rejected. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u196	No. 93.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u197	93.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u198	Colleagues, over the past four years, we had dozens of examples, if not more, when the Supreme Council voted, and then we had to urgently re-vote a bunch of drafts, because the situation there was not in line with other laws, because terminology did not respond because it was contrary to one or the other procedures. And here again we have the same situation where the bill uses a new terminology that goes against the current legislation. How are you going to put it all together? Article 116 will not help you. The Constitution, the Civil Code of Ukraine, uses terms in a series of Ukrainian laws: State ownership, the right to state ownership, not the right to own a state, as in this bill. I understand that you're going to throw it all out there in technical law, but I'm sorry, there are a lot of things in this bill that cross it all out. For God's sake, in this particular bill, everything is crossed out, and it wasn't effective so as not to destroy a normal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u199	I bet on the vote to take into account the rejected number 93 of the national deputies of Fedina, Arieva, and Pauline. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:49:18]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u200	Edit 102.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u201	102.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u202	I have already pointed out that there is no basis why we have a twofold term after the end of a military state or its abolition, during which it is proposed that we do not discuss legal disputes. At the same time, however, the project’s proposal does not contain a complete implementation mechanism, since it does not contain any prescriptions as the court should if it is called upon to do so, nor does it explain how the court is to act if such conduct has already been opened at the time of the war. And at the moment of change. the validity of the amendments to the bill. So there's actually not solved problems here, as envisaged in the original version, but problems are just accumulated and growing, and it's going to be either total raiding and manual resource management, or it's just going to be total chaos. Keep track of 102.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u203	I'm betting on the vote to consider the amendment rejected by the Committee of the 102nd People's Deputies of the Federation and colleagues. Please vote. [[14:50:46]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u204	And the last amendment is 103.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u205	And it's partially accounted for, so it's the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u206	Okay. So we're going to put it on full count.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u207	Yeah. Is there still to be taken into account? It's just for confirmation, isn't it? Then please, who's going to start? I have a list of them. Number 4, whose number is this? Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u208	Amendment number 12. I'm betting on confirmation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u209	12th. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u210	Yeah. My friends, next is 24th, Mr. Alexander. 12 axles. It's an amendment that speaks in general of the name of this law, which is absolutely not in keeping with the necessity of today. Because this law, it destroys the investment climate, it creates corrupt risks mad, crazy! Imagine a law by which you can just take your property away, and they're offering it to take and transfer corporate property rights to the Ministry of Defense, and it can just be the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, we've already seen the Minibars and their administration, unfortunately. We have a lot of respect in the Ministry, but when we talk about today's leadership at the level of the minister, some of the deputies who are already sitting in the S.I.A., well, we've all seen 17 bracelets of eggs and everything. So I'm putting this right here for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, I'm putting in a motion for amendment number 12, she's listed by the committee, the national deputy of Honcharenko is putting her on the stand. Please vote. Edit Zavtnavich and colleagues. Please vote. [[14:52:51]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 24th. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u212	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Amendment number 24. It's a crazy thing to do. It says that it is not possible to detect bankruptcy or to restore the capacity of critical infrastructure objects in state ownership. Well, it's a direct violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. The point is that they want to ban the provision of lawsuits, they want to ban the possibility of reaching out to the court of truth. So are we building a country with the rule of law or not? The fundamental values of Europe that we've talked about so much about are democracy, human rights, the rule of law. That's why this bottle could be next to this one, with ours. All hail once again with the State Flag Day of Ukraine. But if we want our flag of majors in Europe, in Brussels near the European Parliament, we need to follow basic principles. And that's a complete set of principles.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u213	I'll bet you a vote on the 24th amendment. It's part of the committee. Alexeiovich Hotcharenko proposes to confirm it. I put it in the paper where the committee partially counted it. Please vote. [[14:54:34]] For 209 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. What's next, Alexiyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u214	I'm going to skip a couple of bars to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u216	31st. Come on, let's go right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u217	31st. Please, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u218	Now, one second.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u219	Also partially counted. Edit the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u220	It's a very important readjustment. You know, this repetition is going to be just the same thing. I want to take advantage of it. Today is Sergio Jadana's birthday. Let's give it up, folks, it's our national poet, our national hero, who I think it's very important today to remember him and hear his prophetic words. So I'm betting on confirmation of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u221	I don't know how this is related to my colleague Sergey Jadan, but we want him to be healthy and prosperous in the work he does for our country. I'm betting on the Committee's editorial part-time number 30. I am confirming the partial number of 31 members of the committee, Zavávnević and colleagues, as proposed by Alexia Alexiyovich Hončarenko. Please vote in the form in which the committee partially counted it. [[14:56:03]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Why don't we move on to the law now, colleagues? What's next, Alexyyyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u222	Thirty-two.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u223	32nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u224	Absolutely unconstitutional, which prohibits the provision of lawsuits contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and the rule of law. I'm betting on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u225	I'm betting on the vote on Alexia Alexiyovich Hotcharenko's proposal for confirmation of license number 32, the committee's law of the national deputies, the Zavávněvić and colleagues, which is partially counted by the committee. Please vote in committee. [[14:56:57]] For 211 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. What's next, Alexyyyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u226	This is number 33.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u227	33, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u228	Dear friends, it's a very important readjustment. Once again, it's about basic things, about fundamentals, about the rule of law, about what needs to be protected in court, about all the things we can't ignore if we're going to become members of the European Union. So, my friends, it's very important, let's break down this amendment that's listed there, because it totally doesn't correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. In general, the Constitution of Ukraine must be untouchable to us because it is this Constitution that protects our rights. And if we let ourselves ignore it in such important laws, we destroy everything. We don't have an economic strategy in the state, instead of an economic strategy, we're being prompted by these bills that no one comes here with investment, no one at all, and the country is just going to be a laughingstock.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u229	It's number 32. 33 People's Deputy Puziychuk. Partly counted by the committee. My colleague, Honcharenko, suggests that we confirm it. So I'm putting this proposal to a vote. [[14:58:39]] For 216 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Please, Friz Irina. What's the readout? 36.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u230	Thank you. Yeah, right number 36. Dear colleagues, I would like you to note that this right here is actually depriving us of the possibility of opening bankruptcy procedures. In fact, if we adopt this standard, we're giving indulgence to banning the discovery and conduct of bankruptcy, to dealing with bankruptcy, exclusively of a business company that is a critical infrastructure operator. This is a violation of our international obligations, and I mean the Convention for the Protection of Rights and Freedoms. So I'm asking you to put this right to confirm and not to adopt a positive decision, because it is actually destroying and is one that deprives us of the capacity of the rule of law to resolve disputes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u231	Amendment No. 36 of the National Deputy Zavávnević and colleagues from the Committee are included in part. The National Deputy Fries is proposing to vote for confirmation. Please vote. [[15:00:03]] For 221 The decision is not taken. What's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u232	Next line is 37. Please also place it on the ground that it does not comply with current legislation, violates the Constitution and our international obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u233	I'll bet you a vote to confirm number 37. The committee is partially accounted for. Edit the members of the committee. Please vote. [[15:00:40]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next 37th?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u234	Eight.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u235	Eight. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u236	Thank you very much. The amendment, which is 38, does not apply at all to the subject matter of regulation of this bill, and there is no justification for the need to introduce it. I would like to point out that this is a de facto violation of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, which prohibits any legislative amendment to the codes at the same time. Please place on confirmation 38th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u237	What's that, 38th? But there are no changes to the codes. Okay. I'm betting on the vote to confirm amendment number 38 of the National Deputies, members of the Committee. The committee is fully accounted for. Please vote. [[15:01:53]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next. Who's next? Friz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u238	Thank you. Please place 39 revisions on confirmation. This is the final amendment that I ask for confirmation because it also violates existing legislation, the Constitution and norms.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u239	I'm betting on a vote to confirm the order of 39 national deputies, members of the committee. It's counted by the committee. Please vote. [[15:02:34]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Who's next? Everything? Let's move on to the voting of the law as a whole. Okay. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on registration number 8316: draft Act amending article 8 of the Critical Infrastructure Act of Ukraine (resolve disputes that are subject to the right of the State to critical infrastructure that is owned by the State). Please vote. [[15:03:24]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The law is not approved. The factions. There is a proposal to refer the bill to read again, 8316. Please vote. [[15:03:59]] For 230 Decision taken. The bill is aimed at re-reading the second reading. Dear colleagues, let's move on. We have no further discussion on the draft Decree 9620 amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on the Establishment of a Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Possible Violations of Ukrainian Legislation During Public Procurement during the War State, to include a representative from the faction of the political party "European Solidarity" in the interim commission of inquiry. The proposal to accept in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[15:04:49]] For-73 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. The factions. The procedure is Irina Volodymyr. Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, what are you doing just now? A TSC has been created to investigate and investigate corruption in the area of purchases. The "European Solidarity" faction put our representative there, and we agreed earlier that this would be supported. I understand that right now we see such a real desire to bury the eyes of corruption all over the stories.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u241	It's not a procedure, Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u242	It's procedure. It's procedure. And I'm asking us to.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u243	That's pretty much it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u244	I ask that we abide by the agreements reached at the Conciliation Council. This ruling was supported unanimously on the Regulatory Committee. All factions have the right to delegate TSC representatives, especially when it comes to opposition factions. Dear Chairman, we ask you once again to put to the vote a decree that Vladimir Ariev has the right to work at the TSK, which is headed by Mr. Tzabal. Mr. Tzabal, I ask you to take the floor now and support this requirement of European Solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u245	Please, Tzabal, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u246	My colleagues, indeed, we have made three decrees to include those factions who were unable to enter first, this is a representative of the faction "European Solidarity", this is a representative of the "Trust" Group. I ask my colleagues to support the full representation of all factions in our interim commission of inquiry. If there are any questions before quotas are saved, then it may be necessary to add representatives of other factions so that the corresponding quotas are preserved. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u247	Thank you. If you have noticed, in the past of this call to the ninth procedural issue, the one who presided was not again. So if Helen Kostvena is ready, I can give her headship now. If you're ready, Olena Costova.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u248	Olena Kostvena is always ready. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you once again to vote on Bill 9620: a draft decree amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible violations of Ukrainian legislation in the course of public procurement during the course of the state of war, to include a representative in the TSC from the faction of the European Solidarity Party. Please, Your Honor, this is really a procedural question, I'm putting it to the vote. Please identify yourself. [[15:08:06]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Show me the factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u249	The chairmans ended up in the Presidium, so the third time is no longer the case. Out of procedure, Heratchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, since we do not adhere to the agreements reached at the Conciliation Council, all the following decisions will be voted on, and we will have a word after all. "European solidarity" and we express our indignation at how you are now destroying parliamentaryism with such small packages. Now, representatives of your majority say that this is how European Solidarity is punished for misvoting. For the electorate, I want to say that, in principle, there is a formal majority in this room, with 250 votes. But for all the votes, the majority today gave a maximum of 160 to 170 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u251	This is no longer a procedure, Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u252	Because it doesn't exist in the nature of this monotony. And somehow the right and wrong votes hang on the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u253	Please turn off the microphone, it's not a procedure. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have just left questions of blocking orders, and that's what we agreed on at the Conciliation, and we will endure this agreement. We now have five blockages, so we move on to their consideration gradually, as we do. We have the issue of registration number 5431-P: a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to improve the work of the Antimonopoly Committee. Please consider a reduced procedure, no individual vote is required. The authors report to Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u254	Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction, Timoshenko. We are now discussing with you the practical repeal of that law that has already been passed by the Supreme Council, which concerns improving the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee. Well, you know very well today, when you talk to all the entrepreneurs in Ukraine, you know that entrepreneurs today are in a system of the worst repressions of the power structures that have only been in Ukraine's independence. You know that there are empty criminal cases against entrepreneurs, they're being investigated, they're being subjected to huge fines, they're being blocked by VAT and they're being bribed, and these bribes are being distributed in strong structures. There has never been such a terror that is now taking place against entrepreneurs in Ukraine. This Law on Improving the Activities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine will reinforce this terror many times. Because this law transforms the Antimonopoly Committee into a fully-fledged force structure and with authority to break into offices, into housing, to interfere with electronic communication, into an electronic system to store information in entrepreneurs. This is an unprecedented transformation of the Antimonopoly Committee into a force structure that directly contradicts the positions used in the European Union. Because it doesn't require the national authority to compete with the authority to arrest or remove property, or any other function of force structures. Please repeal this terrorist law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u255	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Please sign in: two in, two in, two in. There was no discussion, but colleagues want to discuss all the blocking decisions, as we have just learned. Please, Fatherland, Alexei Yuriovich Kucherenko. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u256	Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u257	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u258	Dear colleagues, I want to finish my speech and say that you now have a chance to return to the Antimonopoly Committee its normal functions. So he has to track the quality of the competitive environment in Ukraine, so he has to have tools. But it is not possible for the Antimonopoly Committee, in fact, to engage in unrequited activities, because not only does this bill provide for its functions as a force structure, but it is still given to it to consider the use of very powerful force tools, which in principle are not regulated by any law, but it allows the Antimonopoly Committee to act. If the power structures today can conduct the investigation, they can carry out other functions related to the activities of the force structures, then the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is used. This code is not used here, just the Antimonopoly Committee is given the unlimited right to determine on its own the basis of this law, what they should do with entrepreneurs in general. No European country has such a draconian, unbalanced and exaggerated Antimonopoly Committee Act. And that's why I'm asking you now, I know the moods in Parliament, I know that you understand what this anti-monopoly law is all about, so get your courage, MPs, not to act with the direction, not for anyone's interest to turn Ukraine into a police state, but at least once vote how to deputise Ukraine, who are doing the right thing. Cancel this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u259	Please, European Solidarity, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u260	Dear Ukrainians, you know, the Ukrainian army, which, on a scale of course, is much smaller than the Russian occupation and the aggressor, is giving heat to these bastards and terrorists today. So in civilian life in the Parliamentary Hall, a faction that has 27 deputies can give a rile to those who now have 250 deputies and want to pass a completely corrupt bill that would take property, destroy our investment climate and destroy business. And because "European Solidarity" today protected the Ukrainian Constitution, this faction, which has 250 faces here, new ones, is blocking today the right of European Solidarity to delegate our investigator, our deputy Vladimir Ariev to the TSC, who is to investigate corruption in the Ministry of Defence. What are they gonna hide in this TSC? And will this TSC now be legitimate if there are only "servants" and their "servants," their servants? And they just won't let the opposition in. There was always an opposition tool in the TSK Parliament. When we have to hide corruption, we have what's happening: the TSC, which will once again lead corruption. We want to say that we are proud that our faction, the 27 deputies, can block the bad laws in this faction, in this room where the servants aren't really 250. They don't go to work, they go to meetings, they don't know where they're going. But notice that everything that's going on here, well, bad, well, they're saying that it's not them again, it's Dusty that keeps throwing it in their pants, you know, this power. What I'm saying is, if we don't get our representative into the TSC right now on the subject of corruption in the army, that means it's illegal. And we're asking the Cabal, the heads of this TSC, to do everything we can to get them back on track.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u261	Thank you. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u262	Thank you. With respect to the authors of the relevant decrees, the honourable presiding officer, and we have five of them today, I would still expect respect for those national MPs who voted in favour of the relevant bills and made positive decisions. During this time, you could accept five other bills. We understand the fate of these regulations, and it's more like a pyar action. We fought during the adoption of these laws, and everyone had the opportunity to express his opinion. Decisions taken. Please don't waste time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u263	Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose a motion for a full vote to be adopted by the Decree with registration number 5431-P: repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the second reading and the whole draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Registration number 5431 from 27.04.2023 Please vote. [[15:18:30.]] For-52 The decision is not taken. The decision is not supported. Next Order 8138-P: draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 09.08.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act amending the Law on State Support for Investment Projects with Significant Investments in Ukraine (registration No. 8138) (since 19.10.2022). Who's gonna be the reporter? Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, it would seem clear to everyone that taxes, competitive products, a competitive economy with equal rights for all, that's how the economy works, and that's how it forms an economic democratic state. And when they say to one another, "Pay the money in the budget and more! Pay for your money and under pressure! Pay more fines!".. And others say, "Don't pay for anything. We're your investment babysitters, we're gonna fix it." Do you think a new investor will ever come to such a country? No one will invest in such a country. In the European Union, there's no such investment babysitters, there's uncle, aunt, mom, everything works like in a democratic rule of law. Economics develop according to their basic rules. I'm very curious that, despite these basic things, in our country and in the hall, they don't even respond to large business associations that you very often base your opinion on. I'm talking about the European Business Association, which researched the business climate, and poll participants also made recommendations to stabilize business conditions. You know, only 35 percent of the business in the shut-down during the war started their jobs, others didn't work. So they said three conditions, and the first one is the transparency of legislation and the same rules of play for everyone. Transparency of legislation and the same rules for all, do you hear or not? No Ukrainian investor, no new one will be in a country where there are so-called "decisions" for percentages and intolerable.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u265	Thank you. Please sign up for the presentation from the rostrum. Please, Irina Petrovna Nicorak, "European Solidarity." Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u266	Unfortunately, some colleagues think that these decisions only delay them until further action, and I don't think so, because even those who voted in favour of this law, I'm sure, were against, but there are political conditions and you voted. Therefore, I ask you to refrain from giving your advice to those who are now making blocking decisions. What I'm saying is that the conditions that are now being created in the country will not allow the economy to recover. You are making an unbearable condition for Ukraine with your hands right now, we will be beggars forever, and we will look into the eyes of all who will help us. This has to be stopped. You realize that of all the crevices, there are such unbearable conditions that all those who have not even mentioned and knew what it meant before in business are talking about. It's manual VAT compensation, it's blocking tax receipts, putting labels on active large businesses, that they're a risky business, and no one can have any further dealings with them. This is a corrupt EDAPS, it's a cloudy ARMA, the opacity of frozen assets, the neglect of ProZorro, the corruption distribution of 500,000 hectares of state agricultural land. What else do you need? You think this is all going to be undetected, you think you're still going to sit quietly in the hall and watch some lobbyists decide their questions? Healthy lobbyism in the country can be. I'd like these lobbyists to show in the next declaration all the income they get from illegal lobbying, because we don't have it in the law. So what I'm trying to say right now is, not so much here as I'm staying in this room, but to those who listen to us. Please tell me that your deputies are doing business on the spot, not a dork.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u267	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u268	Thank you. It's strange to hear about corruption from former officials. But, dear colleagues, we could now adopt really important laws. Once again, I offer to give my word to the authors to whom I express my utmost respect. It is their regulatory and constitutional right to submit relevant bills. And refrain from discussing it in order to save time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u269	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill under registration number 8138-P as a whole: the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 09.08.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the draft Act amending the Law on State Support for Investment Projects with Significant Investments in Ukraine (number 8138 of 19.10.2022). Please vote. [[15:25:14]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Next Order 8138-P1: draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Investment Projects with Significant Investments in Ukraine (number 8138 from 19.10.2022). Please, from the authors of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u270	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, it's about "improvement" (in quotes) The "Investment" Act. They're getting better. In fact, we need to know what the Investments Act is. This is a creation for individual business structures, and it is unknown who chooses them, who will take responsibility for them at all – that is, for them to create offshore zones in Ukraine, and full offshore areas, where they are exempt from any taxes, from any customs payments. These structures are large, very powerful, able to make tens of millions of dollars of investment, and they're also freed from pay for connecting to power lines, to any communication, they're freed from land wages -- kind of a paradise on earth. So they're actually creating some incredible, uncompetitive conditions for individual business structures. I'll tell you what's going on. A new oligarchy is being created in Ukraine, which will work without taxes, without rules, without expenses, without obligation to Ukrainian society. And this is against the backdrop of when Law 8401 repeals the entire tax system for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, for our middle class. So the middle class is killed by Bill 8401 and offshore zones are created for the oligarchy. That's what this law is about. And he's saying that from $30 million in investment, we have to cut it to 12, and 30 percent of the investment has to be recovered from the budget. Shame! Vote for cancellation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u271	Request to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please, "European Solidarity", Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u272	Dear colleagues, the nurses are different. There's Mary Poppins. But that's what they're like in the movies. And what is it with us for inventing an investment nanny? It's a cattle cow for the congregation. And if we claim to go to Europe, to be a member of the European Union, you will find not only a nanny in European Union legislation, but also an uncle, aunt, relatives and godparents. And so today, when we're implementing your investment nanny efforts, it's pushing us away from the European Union, and it's creating completely wrong privileges for the assembly, it's destroying a competitive environment in the middle of the state. In my sinful act, I thought that the nannies had died with the first rocket attacks on February 24, that the era of free economic zones and areas of priority for their own had gone with Yanukovic. Turns out, no. We had new Yanukovichs who were trying to distribute new benefits. What I'm saying is that the ghosts of the past with the theft of VAT, with the transfer to the ARMA property that has to be distributed at a transparent competition, are all pushing us away. We are, of course, bound by the need for internal unity, which limits criticism. But what I want to stress is that the silence limit is running out. Stop, send a "no" to hell and we're going to Europe together. Don't ruin Ukraine's economy! Do Not Ruin Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u273	Fatherland, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u274	I want to keep going. The point is that such "investment" laws are such a waste, it's such an inconceivable thing, it's such unscrupulous corruption, it's just such an unscrupulous act of corruption that someone will be responsible for it sooner or later. And I'm going to be very happy to see what companies are specifically going to be given these offshore opportunities. And when you say, power in Ukraine, most in this Parliament, that you want from small entrepreneurs, you want the FOPs to take 9 billion dollars into the budget extra, please tell me, and how much money will have to be spent from the budget of the oligarchy, which will work in offshore areas under this law, and what state under this law must compensate 30 percent of the investment? Please tell me how the Ukrainian budget can bring 30 percent of the investment to the international big corporations that will be invested in Ukraine if you now, like the last skin, take 9 billion dollars out of the FOP because you need to support the army. The FOPs are still supporting the army, the middle class is giving up the army anyway, but you won them by Law 8401. And now you're going to make 30 percent of the investments in mud for the oligarchy, and you're going to make it up to them from the budget? Please tell me what you think or what place you think you might be asked. What international rules do you use? Read the article 13, 42 of the Constitution and do not do so, cancel the law now and put a stop to corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u275	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, platform.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u276	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, it was really interesting to hear about the nanny. But Ukraine is really talented in this regard, in the 14th year, it found such a nanny, who also managed to work in the government of Yanukovich by the minister of the economy, and now it mentions Yanukovich pushing up. Let's identify and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u277	Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose a motion for a vote to be adopted as a whole under registration number 8138-P1: on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Investment Projects with Significant Investments in Ukraine (registration No. 8138) (since 19.10.2022). Please vote. [[15:33:47]] For-31 The decision is not taken. The decision is not supported. Next Order of Registration 9079-P: draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law on State Reserves (No. 9079 of 03.03). 2023). By Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko From where? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u278	Dear friends, this is a draft decree for which we will now ask you to vote on the state reserves of Ukraine (this is number 9079), which has been voted on, and there is an unacceptable concept for any country to form a state reserve of the country, to preserve it, to update it. Well, in principle, as always, everything is done on a deeply corrupt basis by this authority. What does this law, which was passed, foretell? He predicts that the State will retain its state reserve, and we are a warring country, a country that will be constantly threatened by the Kremlin attack, so that we have a state reserve not on the power of the State, not closed, but formed in the areas of private enterprises, both the residents of Ukraine and the non-residents of Ukraine, including foreign companies, which under this law will keep Ukraine's state reserve outside Ukraine and are unknown both. In this bill, which has been voted down and which we ask you to cancel, in fact, the institution itself is destroying the formation of the state reserve. Just because you keep it on private companies doesn't mean you have the ability to activate it at a critical time. And in addition, all of this is clearly formed here, it's transparently preserved at a time when any adequate conscious country is kept in complete secrecy and the stockpiling of its reserves, and the location, and everything else. Do not let the state reserve be destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u279	Please sign up for the performance: two for, two for the opposite. Please, Bondar, European Solidarity. Ariev, please. Vladimir Ariev
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u280	You can try to change the state reserve in any way. But as long as there are cases like a month ago, when they wanted to heat the state up by 50 million dollars, you can take anything you want, it'll be to one place. And what's going on with the tenders lately is that they've been stuck trying to rob the state. I understand very well why the Supreme Council did not want me to be included in a temporary commission of inquiry to conduct tenders. I personally heard the Motovílover all over his faction instructing me not to vote, to vote against me. And because I'm constantly writing about these deals, about spending, about waste, about corruption, about open theft, which is now happening from government and local budgets. What today, instead of buying drones and everything needed for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, billions of dollars go to repair the roads of local importance in the Gitomir region, today in the Winnitsk region 700 million dollars have made a deal public. This, of course, will ask questions both me and the people of Ukraine to you. And believe me, I'm going to keep writing about what's going on with the state funds and the local budgets. You can't let me into a temporary investigation committee, I'll come there. But then people will ask you what you were doing here while there was a war, and how much you stole, you steal unconsciously.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u281	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u282	Continuing with regard to the need for a reliable, totally well-preserved state reserve of Ukraine, especially during the war. You realize that our country is under no other obligation to have reliable state reserves in case of war, an extraordinary situation, because war is on its way. And now the question. Why, in fact, is Ukraine’s reliable state reserve eliminated during the war? It's being eliminated because keeping the state reserve somewhere in private companies, including abroad, is an absurd thing that no country in the world has. I don't think I want to offend individual countries, but even the weak ones don't. And we are a country that is obliged today to have a strong state reserve and to preserve it, and then, when necessary, we virtually eliminate it today by this law. And now the question is, why is that done? And it's done because the state has a very powerful warehouse, the elevators, everything that it takes today to keep the country's state reserve, and it's all located on Ukraine's land. So what they want to do now is essentially own and sell that property, those warehouses, those elevators, all that refrigeration, refrigeration power, all that the state has to keep the state reserve, now it's just going to be shredded between its own, absolutely. This is another element of corruption that makes it possible during the war to warm hands on state property, which has always provided for the preservation of state property in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u283	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u284	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, the authors of the decision had the opportunity to express their position, and the hall should be defined. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u285	Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose to the vote a motion for adoption, as a whole, of the Registration Order 9079-P: on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Law on State Reserves (Registration No. 9079 of 03.03). 2023). Please vote. [[15:41:47]] For-25 The decision is not taken. And the last blocking order for today is 9261-P. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the reinstatement of cases concerning disciplinary responsibility of judges and the provision of work for the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors of the Supreme Council of Justice (registration No. 9261) (from 02.05. This Regulation By Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u286	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, this is about the Order repealing Bill 9261, which has been voted on the disciplinary responsibility of the judges and ensuring the work of the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors. I just want to remind you that today is Flag Day, tomorrow is Independence Day. You and I are adopted by this Parliament, I mean, in this room, well, not this Parliament, the Declaration of State Sovereignty. Do you know what state sovereignty is? It is when the people of Ukraine govern their own lives in accordance with the Constitution, laws, and other normative instruments in their interests. What is now being done virtually every tenth bill that is being passed in this room? In fact, the state sovereignty of Ukraine is minimized, the right of Ukrainians to govern their lives is minimized. In fact, the Constitution is being destroyed and cooled down. We have the Constitutional Authority, the Supreme Council of Justice. And it's about what's being ignored, in fact, the functions of the High Council of Justice -- and at the High Council of Justice, non-constitutional bodies are being created called "disciplinary inspectors," the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors. And what are they doing? This non-constitutional body, which is formed entirely out of space, not by the forces of Ukraine, this body will replace the High Council of Justice and impose disciplinary decisions on Ukrainian judges, and the Supreme Council of Justice has no right to do anything without the conclusion of these unconstitutional inspectors.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u287	Please sign two in, two in, two in, against the discussion. Hončarenko Alexiyyovich, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u288	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I'm very sorry that only at night will the Ukrainians, our meeting, see that there are 30 deputies left in the session room. We're not interested, we're talking about the economy. So look what Rosetta says, or New Mail, who say that they don't remember this kind of pressure on business, like the horror that's happening today. But nobody cares. But you know what else is so interesting? Every few minutes, there's a fifth column, traitors, segregates! Just a year ago, I brought a draft decree to the Ukrainian Parliament to throw away a Russian warship from here all of this LLC. Rick! I have a simple question: how long does it take to get out of here? How long will it take, how long will we keep these traitors in the Supreme Council of Ukraine? They walk, they sit, they listen, then here, here, here, here, here at the FSB, and we're still talking, where, where our security is, maybe someone here doesn't know what's going on. But we've got a direct channel here, they're on a high-velocity channel, and we're still holding them. It is no one, no one in Ukraine understands and understands how, after 18 months of invasion, they continue to sit here. And we have absolutely all the constitutional grounds to throw them out of here. No, they're still sitting, 30 deputies are sitting, some of them are sitting. It's a disgrace! Tomorrow is Ukraine's Independence Day. But let's finally make the day of the Supreme Council's release from the OPCW. This is going to be a holiday!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u289	Please, Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u290	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "For Life" group. Please give me the word of Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u291	Suffrish Nestor Ivanovich, please, "Platform for Life and Peace."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u292	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I had the privilege of being elected to the Odessa City Council in 2006. And I remember those times. Yes, then there was the Party of Regions, then there was Lyosha, who created the Janukovich faction in the Odessa region, and now he's talking about others. Easy, settle down. You know, laughter and sin. Sadly, those were the ones who were recruited in their time. I'd like to keep it in the past and never come back. There is nothing worse than those who are overturned and overturned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u293	Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavsky, "Serve of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u294	Dear colleagues, in this room you and I have adopted a law that has a very simple, seemingly objective: to re-establish the procedure for drawing unscrupulous judges to disciplinary responsibility by functioning as an auxiliary structural element of the High Council of Justice's constitutional body in order to effectively and without any bureaucratic procedures and, most importantly, to ensure the coverage of those judges who in Ukraine are thousands, in matters of accountability. And now we're hearing that some political forces want to block this bill, they want judges who are unwitting, unkind to continue to perform their functions, and they urge us to reverse the results of the vote. Attracting judges is an integral part of the rule of law, because if the judges do not feel that the Constitutional Authority of the High Council of Justice has control over them and the disciplinary inspectors that we have set up with you will effectively assist in the functioning of this body, they will continue to make unjust decisions. Therefore, of course, this absurd decision cannot be upheld. I urge everyone to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u295	Please. Did they mention you? The railroad is now. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u296	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u297	Okay. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u298	Dear Ukrainians, thank you very much for Jaroslav Železniak, who, you know, will save millions of government bracelets when he informs about the work of the Supreme Council better than the "Rad" TV channel does, just like Alexy Honcharenko, Irina Herachenko. And you know, now the "servants" are registering a bill that they're proposing for five to seven years to be put up for criticism of power. That is, if all Ukrainians are not killed, they will be planted. Because now corruption cannot be criticized, it cannot be criticized for the crimes committed by this authority. The government began by blocking freedom of speech at first, introducing political censorship, the opposition does not go into international shipping, the opposition does not go into protective action, we have all the prejudice, all the ministers in four circles of security are going around the city, and now we have no opposition to the TSC from investigating corruption in order to hide this corruption. And the opposition, "European Solidarity" today is accused of breaking the laws that the majority wanted to adopt. So we have 250 votes, where are they? Please show me the "Rady" channel, once uncensored, these empty rows of new faces that are walking around. Look, those MPs who were in power, in opposition, Arthur Gerasim and I, the other political forces, are present the heads of factions. Where is the leadership of the "ministers of the people" faction? They are not here, and they dare to accuse the pro-European, pro-Native opposition that we have blocked the shameful anti-constitutional laws. And at this point, they have, you know, a wide line with who? With OPCW. You know, I've always been against Yanukovich. So, at Yanukovich, there was a censorship like this, at Yanukovich they destroyed parliamentaryism, at Yanukovich they were looking for this, they were holding MPs on hooks, with whom to vote shameful laws. And you should be ashamed today that you still have the head of the Committee for Freedom of Speech who justifies censorship. And you want to bring criminal cases against the Ukrainians for telling the truth. No, lady!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u299	Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, Fatherland. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u300	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. You know, the previous, the previous, speaking out of majority here, was proud to say that someone was blocking the restoration of disciplinary function. So let's think about who blocked this disciplinary function and why two and a half years of judges can't be brought to disciplinary responsibility. Because you passed laws that were then declared unconstitutional, which the opposition warned you about and told you, don't do that, because there will be a problem, there will be judges without disciplinary responsibility. And now this law, by the way, you were afraid to reinstate your disciplinary function immediately. The opposition to the committee demanded that the disciplinary function be reinstated immediately. And you said. No, this law will enter into force once another law is in force, which we will adopt in three or four months. So you don't have to mislead people, you don't have to tell stories, you have to adopt constitutional laws, you have to carry out the actual judicial reform that we've been expecting from you for most of the fourth year. We have a full-blown court system and it doesn't just work because of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-08-23-m0.u301	Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose a motion for a vote to be adopted as a whole by Decree No. 9261-P on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine on the reinstatement of cases relating to the disciplinary responsibility of judges and the provision of work for the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors of the Supreme Council of Justice (Registration No. 9261 of 02.05). 2023). Please vote. [[15:54:07]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've only got the announcements left, more bills today we didn't plan to discuss. The announcements will be a long time, so the request is to schedule its time. So at Conciliation, we agreed that we would stop the work of temporary investigators and special commissions. Therefore, honourable national deputies, in accordance with part seven of article 3 of the Ukrainian Law "On Temporary Commissions, Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", part eight of article 85 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of Procedure cannot exceed one year from the date of the establishment of such a commission. On August 23, 2023, there were three temporary special commissions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that had been completed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taking into account the above-mentioned provisions of current legislation and in accordance with the approved decision of the Conciliation Board of Deputies (deputy groups), I announce the suspension of the following temporary special commissions: 1. A temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legal status of war veterans, established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree of 02.10.2019 No. 137-IX; 2. A temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the formation and implementation of the State policy on the restoration of territorial integrity and the sovereignty of Ukraine, established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 17.10.2029 No. 2011-IX; 3. A temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on international humanitarian and international criminal law in the context of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine, created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree of 01.07.2022 No. 2351-IX. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with part seven of article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry, temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, part two of article 77 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, cannot exceed one year from the date of the establishment of such a commission. On August 23, 2023, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had nine temporary commissions of inquiry that had been completed according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the establishment of such commissions. Taking into account the above-mentioned provisions of current legislation and in accordance with the approved decision of the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups, I announce that the following provisional commissions of inquiry are terminated: 1. A temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of fires (explosions) at munitions depots in the city of Ichnya, Chernigiv, Kalinivka (Vinnicka District), the city of Balaklia (Harkiv Region), the city of Svatov (Lugan Region), the city of Krivi Rig (Dnipropetrovska Region) from 2014 to 2018, established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision 31.10.2019 No 262-IX; 2. A temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible violations of Ukrainian legislation and abuse of office as president of the Ukrainian Football Association (Federation of Football of Ukraine), head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the eighth call by Pavel A.V. on the issue of financing and implementation of the budget programme "Building of football fields with artificial coverage in Ukraine" in 2017-2018, created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution of 15.11.2019 No. 304-IX; 3. A temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the conclusion of an agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Special Committee of creditors on the restructuring of external debt in 2015, established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation of 20.12.2009 No. 428-IX; 4. A temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of media-published facts of possible corruption by officials of the State authorities, which resulted in significant losses in the income part of the State budget of Ukraine, created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 24.04.2020 No. 568-IX; 5. A temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the corruption of the authorities of State architectural and building control and supervision, established by Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 15.09.2020 No. 892-IX; 6. A temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible illegal actions by representatives of State authorities and others who may have contributed to the violation of the State sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine and threatened the national security of Ukraine, created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree of 19.05. 2021 No. 1454-IX; Seven. A temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible illegal actions by officials of the State Space Agency of Ukraine (National Space Agency of Ukraine) and enterprises in the space sector, particularly in the implementation of the Libid and Cyclone-4 projects created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree of 10.09.2021 No. 1747-IX; 8. A temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible corruption by officials of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, the State Customs Service of Ukraine, which could have led to a reduction in revenue to the State budget, and possible abuses in the financial and economic activities of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 27.01.2022 No 2022-IX; 9. A temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible facts of illegal and ineffective conduct by the authorities of the State, the local self-government of measures to improve the management and deregulation of land relations (territorial decentralization) established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree of 01.02. 2022 No. 2034-Y. Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. Thank you very much to the colleagues who have left before the final announcement. I announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We're working to win Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
