ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Please invite the deputies to the hall. Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! Today, a delegation of the Kingdom of Denmark, headed by Prime Minister Matte Fredericksen, is taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] We warmly welcome our partners and thank you for joining us in our work Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the decree we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call in conditions of martial law" today we continue our plenary session. I note that, according to the decision of the Supreme Council, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its passage, the beginnings of decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the suspension of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to abide by the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. In the event of air anxiety, there will be a pause in the plenary session, and we all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Dear colleagues, according to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] It lasts for the 19th month, as the Ukrainian people bravely give in to the widespread military aggression of the Russian Federation. Just a year ago, a Cypriot counterattack began, resulting in the release of thousands of our compatriots from occupation, in almost all of Kharkishland’s population, by the flag of the state. Let us welcome this anniversary to the new Ukrainian history. We thank our heroic Defense Forces for their brilliant operation a year ago. [[Applause]] Glory to the forces of defense! We firmly believe that through the unity of the Ukrainian people, the self-loyalties of our warriors, the support of the partner states, we will free the entire Ukrainian land from the racist invaders. Honorable colleagues, eternal glory and those who have not returned, especially from the liberation operation and from all other fighting events. Let us pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of the defenders and protectors who fell for Ukraine, as well as to all the innocent victims of the aggression of the Russian terrorist state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Madam Prime Minister Fredericksen, it is a great honor for us to welcome you to the Ukrainian Parliament, and it is a great honor for us to have a real friend of Ukraine here. Allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Council, to express my deep gratitude to you, and in your person to the people of Denmark, to the Danish Parliament of Folketting, to the Danish government, personally to you for your unwavering support and solidarity with the people of Ukraine in the face of Russian aggression. A year ago, you were speaking in this video room. We remember how you said that our freedom is both your freedom and accordingly you can't let us down. The whole of Denmark is behind you and the rest of the free world. These words of yours are strengthened by the powerful help of your nation. We highly appreciate and thank you for helping with your weapons, for sanctions against the aggressor, for your strong humanitarian, financial and international support. Your determined efforts to provide heavy arms to Ukraine are very important to us, for that is not only helping us to maintain a precious life but also bringing us closer to victory. It was your personal courage that ensured Denmark’s leadership in the aviation coalition. So we are very grateful for your government's truly historic decisions to hand over F-16 fighters to Ukraine and to teach our pilots on them. [[Applause]] Such a powerful contribution to the protection of Ukrainian airspace will greatly enhance the security of our nation. We highly appreciate your country’s sincere desire to take the lead in rebuilding the city of Mikolayeva. We hope that your initiative will restore our nation’s ship’s capital. For us, the political and diplomatic support for winning the victory demonstrated by our friend Denmark is especially important. We hope to promote Denmark on the path of our nation's full membership in the EU and NATO. Our peoples are united in the struggle for freedom, democracy and common European security. We are grateful that we have such a sincere partner and ally in this fight. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Denmark, Matte Frederiksen, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u2	Dear members of the Supreme Council, dear Ukrainian friends, it is an honor to be here today. In the last 18 months, I have been in Ukraine several times: in Kiev, in Borodjanec, in Mikolayev, in the town of heroes, in Odessa and today in Butch. The ruins of war are heartbreaking. The oppressive brutality of Russian aggression, foolish evil. I saw soldiers who had lost their legs, their hands, their families who had lost their homes, their mothers who were to say good - bye to their sons. No words will be enough to describe the suffering you are going through. But despite the inhumanity of war, despite injustice, despite all the pain of Ukraine, you are still holding on. The world sees the incredible power of the Ukrainian people. The will to never give up, to give up the aggressor, the occupier, how you fight for the restoration of Ukrainian territory, to restore justice and to restore peace to Europe, to our Europe. Dear people of Ukraine, your fight is our fight. Recently, a few weeks ago, your brave President Zelensky and First Lady Zelenska were in Denmark. I hope that you have experienced the sincere support of all Denmark, all the Danes and all the Danish Parliament, as we stick together with Ukraine, we have a common desire to help you as much as possible. Since the war began, we've given away our artillery, we've given up tanks, armor, missiles, missiles. And we recently announced the transfer of nineteen F-16s, fighter planes. [[Applause]] It's these moments that Ukrainian pilots and tech personnel are learning in Denmark, learning how to work F-16s. I met these men, women -- Ukrainians and Ukrainians -- in Denmark. They're very proud, they're sure, and they're very eager to bring F-16s home to Ukraine. Dear members of the Supreme Council, allow me to commemorate your efforts to keep your country strong in the face of destruction. Many have been destroyed: infrastructure, schools, shops, but everyone reports as much as possible, building a new future peaceful, stronger Ukraine, fighting corruption even during the war. You're approaching the European Union, you're approaching NATO, and I'm impressed, and really, Denmark will support you on this path. And be assured that we are on this long journey. We've been with you for a long time. Many said that war would never return to Europe. They were wrong. And they didn't understand Russia. I say, stop being naive. This war can stop today, it only takes Russia to withdraw its troops, and this nightmare will end. Before that, dear Ukrainian friends, we will help you, and no one in the rest of Europe can say that there is any fatigue from war. You lead and we'll go with you as long as it takes. Denmark won't fail. We will be strong partners to build peace in Ukraine. And we will support your efforts to establish a relationship with countries around the world, with countries that understand that this senseless war must end, with countries that agree that must dominate the principle of sovereignty, that aggression cannot be tolerated, that peace must be restored on your terms. When President Zelensky paid a visit to Denmark, he said and he spoke to the Danish Parliament, to the Danish people, and today I want to return those words to you. I want to thank Ukraine. The president, the deputies, every Ukrainian, the Ukraine is worthy of thanks. Thank you for fighting. No human has to endure this. I thank you for your endurance, for resisting this injustice, for standing for our common democratic values, for choosing the right side of the good, for showing us every day what real courage is. You're a nation of heroes! Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u3	Thank you. Let us thank the Prime Minister and the Danish delegation for their participation in the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council and for Ukraine's undisputed support. Thank you. [[Applause]] With partners like Denmark, it will be much easier for us to win this terrible war. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules, an emergency vote will be held prior to the opening of the consideration of the agenda. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. Please vote. [[11:51:11]] For a hundred and They're red, they're yellow. Okay. Wait, please. With regard to the signal vote, why it matters the same way. I've been approached by representatives of the Voice faction and, I understand, there's a problem with a whole series. Because everyone sitting next to me didn't work. And European Solidarity, too, right? Yeah. This was the case with Bill 9534. I think we don't usually announce it, but for Bill 9534, I think the principle is to say that people are asking you to take their votes into account. This is Sophia Fedina, Inna Romanovna Sosun, and Alexander Yuriovna Ustinova. And I'm asking the apparatus, the technical service after this session, to do an analysis of that part of the hall, those rows where it didn't work, yes. Sumar, yes. Everywhere that didn't work. Artem Aleksandrovich, please give the orders, then, because mass non-working is already a matter of national security. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u4	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. We didn't have a card in our sector when we voted for the renewal of the e-declaration in Sofia Fedina and Victoria Sumar. We're asking you to post these names under the transcript. And about our meeting. In the bank's anonymous telegrams, it has already been reported that the Danish Prime Minister is now speaking in Parliament. So I think it's very sad again that we don't have journalists today who don't explain the work of Parliament. And our faction is asking, first of all, we're going to inform about today's voting of Ukrainians. But we ask you to make a decision today (you have included it in the agenda yesterday, for which we thank you very much, Mr. Chairman) to explain the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that today Parliament will adopt it, and we have had a normal presentation of Parliament's work. Thank you very much. But it's wrong that anonymous cables before the Council telegram and the Council channel.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u5	Thank you. Under the transcript, I announce that the Sumar card didn't work yesterday on Bill 9534. I've called the Fedin twice already, I could call it the third time, yes, the control, yes: Sophia Fedina's card didn't work either. Now, wait. As for the determination of your wire. There's no committee, so until we can look at it. Shevchenko is from procedure, then Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Every morning, when a meeting opens, the chairman of the Supreme Council warns us not to publish anything, "don't flush" what's going on here in the Council. But we all know the name of the person who's constantly picking up the name Country.ua and the other channels that's going on here. You actually have a feeling, I don't know, fear or something? Is there no fear at all? Well, there's no armor on top of the glass. Hypersounds fly from Belarus for 2.5 minutes, so you can understand. And you're humming. Is it not possible to wait until the meeting is over and then publish? What does it do? That's why I support Irina Heratchenko: we decide who's going to be caught in this, from the hall to the entire session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u7	The procedure is Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u8	Dear Alexander Sergiyyovich, I have a great request to give an urgent commission to the appropriate committee of profile to consider the Enlightenment Order 9677 and to take it to the Hall. To that end, we and the Motherland faction have just filed for a real break of 30 minutes. But we want only one break so that during the break, the appropriate profile committee can gather. And if it comes together in three minutes, it's going to be a three-minute break, five minutes minus five. If not, 30 minutes. And I took a decision on Decree 9677 and was immediately put into the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u9	Arthur Volodymyrovich, it is not in order today, approved by the Conciliator. Therefore, it must first be voted upon to appear in today’s day. If that's what you're suggesting or someone from your faction. Fedina's offering, isn't she? Please, Fedina, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u10	Please put in the agenda 9677, the draft decree, so that the committee can consider it later and quickly vote in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u11	I'm voting on Sofia Romanovna Fedina's proposal, as she said. Please vote. [[11:56:50]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Please. Real break, Arthur Volodymyrovich, right? Okay. There's a 30-minute break on the demand for European Solidarity and Fatherland. Meet me at 12:27.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u12	Invite the deputies to the hall. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko – 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u13	Dear Ukrainians, I want to thank the Fatherland faction, who knows exactly that you are in power or opposition, but we must uphold the principle of freedom of speech. And that's why we took this break together to once again raise one key question in this room: transparency of Parliament's work. There are many questions in society today. So why did the Supreme Council not support the opening of a register of declarations, as was the case with our political team? I'll tell you why. Because there is no media in the bed, because if there were journalists here, it would be much more difficult for some to vote on lobby laws and make mistakes. The time has come for the media to return to this room. My friends, you and I have finally opened the way to the return of the declaration. So why can't we get our freedom of speech back in Ukraine? As long as the Armed Forces are choosing to make NATO and the EU not only our goal, but to make Ukraine really a member of the EU and NATO, we are doing everything we can here to build Belarus in Ukraine. It's not normal. So what does our faction call for? "European Solidarity" registered a decree on the disclosure of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as it was 32 years before today. The Council Channel is supposed to show Parliament in prime time, not at night to demonstrate our meetings in proportion to the number of factions to show the work of these factions, the committees. It's perfectly normal. Sorry, more than 500 million dollars are coming from the budget of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the "Council" channel, and it shows a hell of a lot of things. So we ask the presiding officer today to give a task to the committee of profile to consider the relevant decision, and at the next meeting, which will take place in September, we have voted with you to announce the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Excuse me, your voters are all asking you what you do, how you vote, what laws you adopt. And it's a shame that they've done absolutely everything they can to shut down Parliament's work and to put the "Council" channel in the President's office's lysis. By the way, it's very strange that people who define state policy and censor the media will not be declared, including by this vote. And you know, we're not surprised if President Green's veto is imposed on the Return of Electronic Declaration Act for the very things that European Solidarity insisted on, and you didn't support it, you didn't vote, including yesterday's anti-corruption officials, because there's no media. And we urge you, colleagues, and we assure you that we will bring all the names, all those who will block the normal disclosure of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will bring these names to the voters. Mr. Chairman, we ask you to give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u14	Sergey Vitaliovich Calchenko, before the next meeting, we will have to deal with this decision on the committee. Let's get back to work. Please, Buymaster, from procedure. Beam the buymister from the scene. It's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u15	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! I want to see you today. Today, the great festival is the Independence Day of the Republic of Iceland. I want you and I to thank today the Icherian people, who have fought side by side with us since the first days of a full-scale invasion, and since the 14th year since the beginning of Russian aggression, helping us fight Russian-imperial evil. And I want us to thank all our brothers today, and also to pay tribute to the moment of silence to all the dead Ichekarians who are fighting with Ukraine for ours and for their independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u16	Please, the suggestion made by Mrs. Buymister to welcome the Icerian people with independence and to honor the moment of silence of our brothers, who had all begun to fight this racist coup. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 85, part 12, paragraph 10, of the first article 106 and part four, article 114, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian Defence Minister is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for submission by the President of Ukraine. On September 5, 2023, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the appointment of Umerov Rustem Enverovich as Ukrainian Defence Minister. For this reason, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has registered a corresponding draft Decision for registration number 10004. The right materials are given to you. Dear colleagues, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed on the following procedure for discussing the matter. Presentation by the President's representative in the Supreme Council, within 2 minutes, of the defence minister himself, 5 minutes, a question to the candidate from the Ukrainian national deputies, up to 10 minutes, a report from the profile committee, up to 2 minutes, statements from the MP factions and groups in the case of the defence minister, three minutes for the performance, eight factions and groups. The whole procedure is up to 45 minutes. If there is no objection, I will put such an offer to the vote. This is a procedural vote, it takes 150 votes. Please vote. [[12:28:06]] For 214 Decision taken. Then let us move on to the question. Name of candidate for Minister of Defence of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Presidential Representative to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u17	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In accordance with article 85, part 12, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 106, part one, paragraph 10, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine submits a nomination for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to serve as Ukraine’s Defence Minister. The President of Ukraine, in accordance with his constitutional credentials, submitted to the Ukrainian Parliament of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Umerova Rustem Enverovic's candidacy for the post of Minister of Defence of Ukraine. All the materials needed to address this issue have been provided to the Ukrainian National Deputies in the Supreme Council Hall. On behalf of the President of Ukraine, I ask you to support Umerov's candidate, Rustem Enverovich, for the Ukrainian Defence Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u18	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. The speech is given to the candidate for Defence Minister Rustem Enverovich Umerov. In five minutes. We made five deals, but come on, give the candidate seven minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. I am grateful to President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine for his trust. It is an honor for me to be represented by the President today as Minister of Defence of Ukraine. Thank you to all the soldiers who heroically kick the invaders out of our territories every day and approach victory. Thank their families for their reliable support. It's a challenge. With your support, honourable deputies and members of the government, I accept this challenge and will do my best to win Ukraine when we release every inch of our country. This war didn't start for me when I was 22, and it didn't even start at 14. For my family and the entire Crimean Tatar nation, the war with Russia began centuries ago when Moscow occupied my own Crimea for the first time. I was born into deportation, and as a child, I experienced all the complications of Russian colonialism, which tried to make the original Crimean Tatar people feel alien to their lands. It didn't work out then, and it's never gonna work out. And the main goal today is to win the war. Every day, military spending increases, and we must have a strong strategy as in such realities to act on the country in order to win. More than 3 trillion are needed annually by Ukraine. Of these, 1.6 trillion for the security and defence sector. The income portion of the budget is only 1.4 trillion, which means that it takes more than 1.5 trillion to continue the fight. Over 1 million people today in the security and defence sectors, more than 800,000 of them are the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Before the start of the full - scale war, this figure was 261,000. The defense spending has increased more than six times compared to 21 years, and the U.S.S.A. is nearly ten times. The defense budget is one third of GDP, a huge figure for any economy in the world. By the end of this year alone, we're going to need an additional 250 billion dollars in cash, and these costs are rising every day. The Ministry of Defence is a key body for shaping strategies and defence policies. One of the first steps in office is our team going to review all the directions that are now in line with the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry's team will develop a concept of transformation of Ukraine's defence system with a new national security and defence strategy for Ukraine, according to the doctrine of victory by the President of Ukraine, new challenges, realities and NATO standards. The experience of our army, our soldiers, our institutions is unique and unprecedented for the development of a new world security architecture. Today, Ukraine not only implements NATO standards, but also participates in the development of new standards, together with our partners. NATO principles are based on freedom along with democracy, human rights, the rule of law. NATO's mission is to protect its territory. Our Ukrainian soldiers, Ukrainians, have been at war every day for the tenth year of these principles and missions. The resistance of one person is the opposition of the whole country. Each soldier has 42 million Ukrainians behind him. And we as the Ministry will do everything to protect, to provide for all of our people. Sadly, those who are temporarily in captivity will be returned — children, prisoners of war, political prisoners, and civilians. We will return normal and dignified life to Ukrainian cities, which are sadly temporarily occupied. We know that people there are waiting for us, because these are our people and our territories. With regard to security and your priorities. It is our people, their lives and dignity that are our priorities and our highest value. The work of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine is to ensure respect for the dignity of soldiers in all relations with the state. As a result, we need to give our soldiers more power: arms, capacity building, and strategic early needs planning. Among important strategic tasks, we need to increase the defence capacity of the Ukrainian manufacturer. Anything that can be produced in Ukraine needs to be produced in Ukraine. As a ministry, we, for our part, provide as many contracts as possible for our Ukrainian producers. This is primarily a matter of Ukrainian independence and security. Among the operational priorities, we begin to actively prepare the necessary infrastructure for full operation of the F-16. With respect to insurance and contracts. A Ukrainian soldier must be provided with all necessary resources from the State: weapons, military technology, form, equipment, personal protection, and nutrition. To do this, we need to set up a system of early planning and prognosis, dijitalizing all processes. We need to put in place the practice of developing strategic stocks so that if urgent needs arise, we can respond quickly. Medicine. We're going to transform the system into a warrior, especially a wounded one. VLK. This abbreviation in today’s sense should remain in the past. Task: digitize all processes, run a single register of conscripts that will make it impossible for any corruption risk. Prifront's medicine. The path of the wounded person from the field of combat to medical care should work so that each soldier will receive help in time. Our task is to provide the necessary: armored medical evacuation machines, to adjust the process of timely informationing the stabilisation points.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u20	Let me finish. Two minutes, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u21	Our task is to provide the necessary, to set up the process. Teaching. We're going to change philosophy completely, and we're going to go to military training. Our task is to introduce basic general government training, a training system for citizens before they are mobilized; to reform the military training system, taking into account the experience gained in combat operations; and to expand recruitment centres with targeted programs. Digital. Anything you can digitize has to be digitized. All information about a soldier must be in digital: an electronic military ticket, the digitization of the VLC and hospitals, an electronic magazine, a military report. The issue of cybersecurity is a particular priority. The military must not spend their time filling out piles of unnecessary paper. For example, the military has heard that every mouthpiece fills an average of 11 to 16 magazines a day, another documentation. This is unacceptable for a warring country. Justice. We have an active and effective system of military justice, military police, military prosecutors, military courts. Fighting corruption. Zero tolerance and zero tolerance for corruption, every stolen bracelet costs the lives and safety of our warriors. In my philosophy, corrupters are likened to terrorists, and they do not negotiate with terrorists. Our plan is to make corruption as impossible as possible, we need to fully launch the purchasing agencies. It's a matter of honor. By international interaction. We have to work even harder with the international coalition to bring in the heavy arms needed by our soldiers more quickly in Ukraine. The main task is from high-level agreements with partners to the delivery of weapons in the field of combat to the minimum delivery time. One of the greatest resources we have today is time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u22	Thank you. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you, Rustem Enverovich. Stay in the rostrum, we have questions. Please sign up for a 10 minute candidate for the Ukrainian Defence Minister. Please, European Solidarity, Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u23	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u24	Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u25	Good afternoon, Mr. Rustem! Thank you for being here today and ready to answer your questions. I'm sorry your room isn't listening. The questions are as serious as they are for me. The war is becoming positional. To save people, and this is problem number one, I think today, we have to make our army as technologically as possible. Your predecessor here in the hall, and he didn't just call them, for example, "Maviks" wedding drones, while apparently they are the eyes of our warriors. What are your plans to develop the drone program and especially the drones? How much can we do with our Lancets? Next, I want to tell you that, for example, in some parts of one minomet, three shots a day are fired. And how are we going to produce our Ukrainian minuts, and how much are we going to produce our Ukrainian mines to provide them with the Armed Forces? And then there's the line of defense. You know, in defense of a building in Ukraine, there's a little bit more than one billion and much less than a marathon. How much money do you need today to set up an adequate line of defense?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u26	Thank you. So for today, I'm going to look for money, and then we're going to work together with the Ministry of Finance. So far, I'm going to ask 251 billion, of which 227 are for October-December cash and 24 billion are for one-time cash assistance. As for technology, I've already met with the Deputy Prime Minister, and they've been working to transfer these functions to the Ministry of Defense. He said that up to 200,000 drones would be able to place orders, and we'd work with them, and we'd give them more. As for the front line, I'll be open. Along with the U.S.S.A., some people say that these lines can be different. Now, I want to talk to everyone, so that we can come to the Supreme Council with one position. Anything that I can do to redistribute resources on frontal territory, I'm going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u27	Please, Gerus Andrey Mihajlovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u28	First of all, I wish you a successful vote today and wish you success in this difficult job in this difficult position. And here's the question. The issue of military PFCs, both military and military, is currently being discussed in society. There's a concept, there's a proposal for this PDF to transfer to the central budget and it was used further for military purposes. And there's a suggestion that this PPF should remain, or at least half of it would remain in place, and the authorities of local government could help the military to buy what was needed by the military in those military units. Tell me, what is your opinion, what concept do you support, and what concept do you see more effective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u29	As far as PDF is concerned, there are also several concepts. We can run a special account at the Ministry of Defense to get them into the Ministry of Defense. We will be able to validate all suppliers and make direct purchases directly to qualified entrepreneurs or suppliers. This is one of the concepts. The second concept that's discussed between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defense is either to leave the majority, is to count it to the central government, that is, directly to the Ministry of Finance, and then they count the Ministry of Defense. So these concepts I know, I'm studying, and hopefully, with Minfin, we'll come up with one position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u30	Please, "Golos" Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u31	Please give it to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u32	Samantha Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u33	Mr. Rustem, I'm sure the Voice faction is going through a lot today, but it's also proud that you've taken the historic challenge of leading the bravest and most difficult ministry of the time of war. And, of course, we'll all be there with help, because we understand all the responsibility and pain that you're going to have 24 times 7. I still have a few questions. First, with regard to the reform and reform of TCC and SP military units, which are actually leading to the wild misunderstandings of the citizens that are being mobilized, and, in principle, to the continuation of these steps, and all this savagery produced by TCC and SP, especially in the last year and a half. The next moment, this is a control request for control of the Command of Medical Forces and huge scandals over the inadequacy and absence of the standards of tournaments, as well as combat tactical pharmacies, which are now one of the biggest problems in military tactical medicine. Yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u34	Thank you. TCC and VLC have a high level of corruption. Our proposal will be to completely dijitalize and make an electronic bill, a register of military bounds. As for the medical forces, I hope that we can transfer a number of functions that do not exist to the Ministry of Defence and pursue policies on the medical force. So there's a question, someone says there should be partially some functions returned to the Ministry of Defense, the medical forces should stay there in the U.S.U.S. But this is a very painful question, so we're going to work with the MoH, with the Kabmin, with the committee, and we're going back to the hall with a single offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u35	Thank you. "European Solidarity", Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u36	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sophia Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u37	Sophia Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u38	Mr. Rustem, first question. Are you prepared to work with all factions? Because in fact, with your predecessors, including Reznick, getting any communication and getting answers was completely unrealistic. I wish there was a normal job, because we have one interest. The second question. The corruption at the Ministry of Defense, they have shown total contempt for the lives of military personnel, their families, their work, and I would like to see in your work, first of all, a determination of the value of every particular life of a soldier. Third. Are you planning on reinstating the work of "voluntary landing," as in the time of Minister Poltorak, who proved his absolute effectiveness, and it is the volunteers who can report very much on what is actually happening on the front. And the last. I would very much like to have the first things you'll do as a minister that would apply to the simplification of the U.B.I. and also to work out all the documents that will allow you to make extraordinary payments to those who were accepted two months ago, to students who were sent out of state, to instructors and to other people.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u39	Thank you. For all factions, this is absolutely necessary, because the Supreme Council is all factions, the main committee has always been, I don't plan to make any changes. I mean. After corruption has already said that buying, there are several concepts: leaving it in one agency, making airline/nonletal purchases, i.e. work, I'll suggest a concept. On my part, we have to do one agency, but I'll work it out and answer it. As for the volunteer brigades, I'll study the question and come back. According to UBD and payments, I have already said that I will ask the Supreme Council to support it, because it is necessary to pay for the mobilized, contractors, terms, students and ODG. So that's what I was going to do in my speech, that was planned for 15 minutes yesterday, and now they're saying 5, so I couldn't say, but it was on the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u40	Thank you. Papiev, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u41	May I have a word with the People's Deputy, Koltunović?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u42	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear candidate for the post of minister, I have a number of questions about the financial and economic context. And I'd like to get some answers from you briefly. The first concerns financial security and social security for military personnel. You know about the numbers that voted on the Council, then they went back and so forth? This time. The other one. It's a defensive budget. You said 1.5 billion dollars is actually a deficit. A trillion, sorry, deficit. How will you cover, considering that the actual budget in the Supreme Council will already be presented on September 15th? Next. The next moment is public procurement. What steps do you see for us in the Council to correct public procurement legislation to make it impossible, for example, for a dozen eggs of 170 dollars, which at that time cost 55, maybe auctions and so on? The next moment. With regard to the modernization of the military industrial complex. Is it scheduled to be upgraded next year? And so is the PDF. There are two concepts, but once again, September 15th, there must be a budget. What will you take?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u44	Thank you. About 1.5 trillion. The needs I've seen have already been several times greater than what we have, our expenses are 1.9 trillion, so we're going to look with the Ministry of Finance and decide somehow. But as I've already pointed out, 251 billion is a minimum program, of which 227 will be for the money of the mobilised, the termites, the trainees, and the one-time cash assistance, I'll ask for 24 billion. There are two concepts involved in procurement. Either uniting into one purchasing company, or separating into an air force, it is illegal. It's about KPC. Are we planning a localization, giving contracts to make 50? 70 percent of the location was internal. As far as the PDF is concerned, he said that we should or we could as the Ministry of Defense make a special account. By means of a special account, all suppliers are validated and paid for it. Or with the Ministry of Finance, it's already been communicated by the Ministry of Finance with committees and factions to take the Ministry of Finance and transfer to the Ministry of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u45	Samantha Bobrowski, please. Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u46	Rustem, thank you for your willingness to serve at this difficult time. I have a question about international cooperation and where you see there are still prospects of getting additional weapons for Ukraine, some possibilities that have not yet been used, but you think you can step up cooperation with individual countries. What are your priorities in this direction? And, of course, as parliamentarians, we are ready to join in the lobbying of arms for Ukraine in those directions that will be defined by ministries. So, of course, we look forward to working closely with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. We will continue our systematic meetings of the defence ministers and invite them to Ukraine. Their leaders have already been, most of the countries, watching us expand our military diplomacy. The supply of weapons could be from other regions, Latin America, I don't know. We will. If we can buy in Africa, in Asia, we will use all our options. What can we do? We can make coalitions separately in different directions with regard to the Navy, the aviation, the land forces. What it takes to start these coalitions, I will do with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u48	Thank you, Your Honor. Question time is over. Thank you, Your Honor, for your position, Rustem Enverovich Umerov. You can take your seats, and we'll move on to the discussion. A report from the profile committee. Please, Alexander Mikhajlovich Zavodnevich, head of the Committee on National Security and Defence and Intelligence.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u49	Honorary Presidium, Honorary Fellows, President of Ukraine, pursuant to paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85, paragraph 10 of the first part of article 106, part four of the Constitution of Ukraine introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the appointment of Umerov Rustem Enverovic as Minister of Defence of Ukraine along with the corresponding draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Umerov Rustem Enverovic as Minister of Defence of Ukraine (resertation No. 10004 of September 5, 2023). The National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on September 5, 2023, addressed the question of the appointment of a candidate head of State for the Ukrainian Defence Minister. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support Umierov Rustem Enverovic's appointment as Minister of Defence of Ukraine and to adopt the draft Decision No. 10004 of the President of Ukraine as a whole. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u50	Thank you, Alexander Mikhailovich. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups for three minutes from the rostrum. Please, "Deliverance of Ukraine." From the rostrum, from the rostrum. Burmich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u51	Honorable Presidium, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Secretary! Of course, our "Deliverance of Ukraine" group will support your candidacy, because in time of war, there can be no ministry without a chief executive without a minister. But yesterday we all saw the former Minister Reznikov being held under applause. Of course, everyone understands that it's not his job, although he's been working in separate directions, and the main problem is that corruption has already become so widespread that the President, even on demand and society, and the position that he wanted to propose, the bill, is to compare corruption in military time to betrayal. And that's true, we'll support it. Because robbing a soldier who protects the Fatherland today is treason, it is a defeat of defence, and that is betrayal. So I'd like to say a few words, of course, maybe they'll be useful to you, as with this hydra -- corruption to fight in your future ministry, if you're interested, of course. You have an anti-corruption department. Unfortunately, I think you should pay attention to his activities: whether there are resources, whether they're fighting corruption, whether they're helping, whether they have opportunities, whether they have a functionary. And it would be right for you to lock up this department directly on yourself, not in a hurry, but on yourself, so you can hear firsthand what's going on in your ministry. The other one. I think it would be very useful if you met with the Head of the Security Service. He has a unit, a department of military counter-intelligence that has an agency, trusted persons, all the necessary sources of information in your future ministry, and they asked him: let's work together, Vasil Vasilovich. Give the agency direction to show these at the stage of preparation of the corruption possible moments to inform you. And then, I'm sure you can fight corruption, at least so you can get information not from journalists, but from the originals and react in a timely fashion. So I wish you, you can count, you can count, but I think I can see that you're not even listening, that's the thing. But if.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u52	Thank you. Cosmiakin, please, Andriy Anatoliyovich, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u53	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Fatherland faction in the Supreme Council made a decision this morning to support Mr. Rustem's candidacy as Secretary of Defense. We were able to communicate today and discuss in detail all the problems faced by the advance military, those who are fighting on the fronts today, directly to our deputies and to me personally. But there are a few very important questions that we have also identified, and I would like to say again, Mr. Rustem, about them. First. This is, of course, the question that has already been raised today is to give order on the issuance and determination of the status of a participant in combat. Unfortunately, today in the Ministry of Defense, this work is not at the level required during the war. The point is that I myself faced a problem when, for a year and a half, people who had died in the beginning of the war, their families could not obtain these documents and the status of those who had died, the status of a participant in the fighting. From this, their children, who are now without parents, cannot take advantage of this opportunity to approach and take advantage of this opportunity when entering higher institutions. And they call the poor on the telephones of those they know, the people's deputies or the military, and they ask for help to get this e - mail, where there are as many as nine checkpoints to run. This problem, Mr. Rustem, doesn't need to be prolonged because it can pour into that phrase, after the war, when we win, when our soldiers come, and they'll be told, "Get a report, help from the fighter to the ones who sent you there." That's not supposed to happen. This time. The other one. It's about the drone army, about the drone army. That is indeed an important question today. Ten thousand we've prepared and the project's closed. This is wrong because today the Ministry of Defense is asking only 500 people to be prepared. We need to figure out why, whether it's possible or not, the Ministry of Defense has to pay for the 10,000 more educations needed on the front. And the third question is the question of volunteer formation. Unfortunately, Mr. Reznikov did not like us a bit. But I think that the experience of Kiev and Kiev and the Mikolai region in the formation of mobile trauma groups of the Shahedes, which, by the way, worked again last night so effectively, has to be distributed throughout Ukraine. Because the Shahede flies long enough for no one to knock him down and fly him to the finish line. Happy birthday to you in this position. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u54	Thank you. Roman Costenko, Voice, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, an honorary candidate for the Ukrainian Defense Minister! You know, colleagues, today is a remarkable day, especially for the Voice faction, because the person who came with us to Parliament is now being appointed, I think, to one of the most basic ministries in the war, yes, and I hope, to be voted Minister of Defence of Ukraine. Also, I think today is a historic day, especially for Ukraine, because a representative. A citizen of Ukraine, a representative of the Crimean Tatar people today will head the Ministry of Defence and do everything possible to get our Defense Forces to fight over Ukraine, liberate Crimea and bring our state back to the 91st borders. But still, I want to say, it's also a big responsibility, and you have to understand it for yourself. It's also a great responsibility for the Voice faction, when we know that the candidate is from us, and we'll keep an eye on your work, and we'll always help. Well, and directly for the entire Crimean Tatar nation, you have to become, as you are, a pattern and an indicator, and show that we're doing everything we can to protect our nation. But we have a lot of problems, and we talked to you on the committee, and we talked about the U.B.D., and my colleague talked about it, and about the issue of property write-offs, about the preparation of the personnel that will also lie on you. And one of the main questions I'd like to ask you right now is what the Ministry of Defense needs to look at is the perspective of the rotations and the provision of new personnel to the Armed Forces. Because those people who are now on the front page of February 24, almost 2022, when we're coming to the front, ask questions, and you can tell us how much longer we have to be here, why there is one category, and there's many millions that don't go. So I think as long as our warriors fight, we need to put this first and think about how we're going to solve it. It is very important and sensitive to our society. In general, I wish you success. You can always count on my support, to support the faction, I think, to support a lot of people in this room. Together to victory. And let's do everything we can to continue to pursue civil policy rather than talk about war. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u56	Thank you. Heroic glory! Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko, European Solidarity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! Mr. Rustem! In the past four years of this Parliament, "European Solidarity" has never voted in favour of a staff assignment. This is a principle of position, since the authorities must be responsible and the minority must be able to control the actions of the authorities. But on February 24, everything changed. I remember this day in this room, and under different circumstances, who because of patriotism, who because of anger, who because of fear, but the country is united. Then there were various votes. We were always the only ones in support of war laws, because it's not about politics, it's about the state of Ukraine. I would like to point out that this is the first submission since the 24th Secretary of Defense. We have huge claims to the previous minister, although I know him very well, starting with the orange revolution, but the claims not only in corruption, not in jackets, not in eggs, not in arms purchases, claims in preparation -- six months of preparation for the war, for which we are now paying a huge price. Unfortunately, it is. But we need unity. And today, even understanding all the problems with this assignment, because Rustem doesn't have military experience, but he's a brilliant manager, and I'm confident that the key functions of the Ministry of Defence, namely, transparent, transparent and efficient security of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, he'll pull out. And our unity should not be around corrupt politicians, not around political parties or personalities, our unity should be around the Ukrainian soldier, the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And that's important. And another position. I'm proud that Majlis's representatives are in "European Solidarity," and today's appointment of Crimean Tatar is a very powerful presidency that no deal without Crimea is possible. And the third position. It's important to me that not only negative, but also positive experience in Rustem, to look at Poltorak, it's important lessons. Thank you. And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u58	Please, "Trust," Paul Andriovich Bakunec.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u59	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished nationals! It is clear that at the time of the great challenge of war, we can clearly state that the existence of our entire nation depends on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and the support for the courageous defenders and protectors is, in fact, a strategic, important Ministry of Defence, which must provide all the most courageous Ukrainians who today, unlike us, are fighting on various fronts. And it is clear that the Ministry of Defense is too important for this ministry to help the Ukrainian soldier win the Ukrainian victory. At the same time, this ministry is also one of the largest government and international partners’ funds. And of course, there are a lot of questions about this around society, and there are a lot of temptations around it, and there are a lot of differences in society around it. So today, when we appoint the head of this important Ministry of Defence, I want to say with confidence that I personally know Mr. Rustem Umerov, we have had the opportunity to work with him in the Temporary Special Commission for the provision of international technical assistance, weapons, have been in many meetings with international partners, and I authoritatively claim that this person is absolutely fair, this person is probably a person who uses virtue and enjoys respect, especially from international partners, who will also help the Ministry of Defence, our State, our defenders win. I believe that it will be effective and, above all, transparent in carrying out all this necessary assistance to our advocates and protectors. All I want is success, success, because you'll be working under the enemy's agenda, you'll be working under the community's agenda. And society, especially those on the front, demands justice, I want justice, I want justice, I want wisdom, I want to run the ministry right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u60	"For the Future," Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, dear Rustem Enverovich! We believe that the selection of a new candidate for a defence minister is a very good choice for the Ukrainian Parliament today, for the Ukrainian State and for society as a whole. Because we think it's one of the best managers in Ukraine today. In the past few years, we have been able to convince those who have encountered Mr. Rustem directly in the workplace. We saw that he was one of the best negotiators in the country. We saw that he was doing his job well as head of the Temporary Special Commission for the monitoring of the use of weapons given to us by our international partners. We saw his quality work at the State Property Fund when we saw that without corruption, we could lead such a state institution. After all, it all tells us that Mr. Rustem was in his place and he can perform any state function and any state line. I would like to see a mechanism of new forms of interaction with the military, between the Ministry and the military, in spite of the criticism that is being made at the Ministry of Defence. For the military to be as perceptive as the only family — whether it's a minister of defense or a military minister, so that the problems of the military's pain today are in the soul of the Ministry of Defence despite, of course, a routine that eats up a lot of time. I believe that Mr. Rustem understands this as a man who was engaged in the return of prisoners of war, and the man who will now lead this office. Of course, we need to get to the bottom of corruption, which has absorbed some of the local assembly centers and VLCs. And today in Parliament, we want to create an appropriate temporary special commission to investigate all cases related to V.V.C. So Parliament will put the order in place, it has to bring the order in, and the Ministry of Profiles will do it in its turn. I want to say that there are many challenges ahead, but the main challenge must end with a victory. And we want to wish the new Secretary of Defense were among those Ukrainian captains who will finally accept the act of surrender from the Russian Federation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u62	Thank you. "Platform for Life and Peace", Michael Mikhailovich Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u63	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished Mr. Claimant of the Ukrainian Defence Minister. You know, we discussed Mr. Umerov's candidate's candidacy today at the meeting of our MP's "Platform for Life and Peace" group. And at the same time, we're out of logic. First. The person who comes from us, from the Ukrainian national deputy who knows the hall and knows how the Supreme Council of Ukraine works and how the Ministry's cooperation with the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be organized. The other one. He is a man who already has gains and benefits. Because as a member of the interim commission of inquiry, the predecessors now said that we had created a temporary special commission to monitor the weapons we receive from the allies. And he really led this commission by Rustem Enverovich, and we see how he organized the work that was organized with our allies, with diplomatic representations, and at the same time how great his authority is. The third prize. A man who is now serving as minister of the Head of the State Property Fund. At the time of his appointment, I turned to the then candidate for this position and asked for order with corruption in structures such as the Ukrainian trade unions, such as the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences. And you see, for today, we have the reality that the State Property Fund has begun to put order in this corrupt kingdom, to bring state order and to restore the interests of the state in these structures. I am confident that, as the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Mr. Umerov will be able to organize the same work at the Ministry, so that the issue of combating corruption will first be raised. Yesterday's candidate who came out of here in applause of the hall, I think they are. Or representatives have taken and had some cooperation with the Ministry, today it has so weakened the authority of this ministry, especially among our Western partners, that we now need a person who will restore first authority to our allies, who can clearly and clearly organize cooperation with Parliament. The issue of security, the issue of victory, the issue of social protection, the issue of military money. And we need the Ministry to reinvigorate the practice of initiating drafts from the Cabinet of Ministers on these issues today. We will vote in favour and please support the candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u64	And the final performance by the "Serial of the People" faction. Yegor Chernev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u65	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, honourable chairman, distinguished Rustem Enverovich! It can be said without exaggeration that today the Ministry of Defence is the most important ministry in the country, in the country that is fighting. And it's a great responsibility to lead such a ministry, but it's also a great honor. We can't afford to see the Ministry of Defense's reputation suffer from some scandal, so one of the main tasks for the minister today is to restore confidence in the ministry, restore confidence in the ministry as inside the country, so that there are no questions for those people who are going to raise money every day, and restore trust from our partners so that they don't have any questions or help Ukraine. This is task number one. The number two task is to put the system inside the Ministry of Defence and it's also a very difficult task, starting with the destruction of the Ukrainian paper army, when there are 16 magazines to be held in the field today, in fact, our soldiers, ending the problems of the VLC, the tournaments, the UBD, which we've been raising for another six months, but it's still pending. These are also problems that need to be solved, not even today, but yesterday. Third problem. It's an increase in communication within the country between different organs. This is normal fruitful communication with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the Defence Committee, between the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff, so that there is no controversy, but there is constant interaction and work. The fourth direction. This is our army's own weaponry, and all it takes to carry out effective combat actions. And today we need to produce not only what we need now, but what we need in six months, in a year, in five years, that is, look to the future today and strategically approach the provision of our army. The fifth task. It's external communication. And here we have to give due respect to Minister Resnikov, who dealt with it for five years. You too, Mr. Future Minister, need to do this at the highest level: both at Ramstein level and at the level of interaction with other ministers. We're also here to lay your shoulders and help you. And finally, I'll say that I'm also ready to share my own experience of working with the future minister and working.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chernev. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Invite the deputies to the hall. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, a moment of photography may deprive you of your primary duty in this room. According to article 85, part four, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Decree, registration number 10004, on the appointment of Umerova Rustem Inverovic as Minister of Defence of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Vote. Please vote. [[13:20:29]] For 338 Decision taken. Actor's been approved. [[Applause]] Show the factions, please. Pursuant to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Minister of Defense of Ukraine Rustem Enverovich Umerov is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u67	An oath made by a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine I, Umerov Rustem Enverovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of society. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u68	Heroic glory! [[Applause]] Once again, we welcome Rustem Umerov to such a responsible office and we believe that you will sign the act of surrender of the Russian Federation, and I quote Taras Ivanovich Batenka. Dear colleagues, let's move on, we have the next personnel question. According to article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, paragraph 12, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to appoint the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Ukrainian Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal on September 5, 2023, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the appointment of Kirilenko Pavel Aleksandrovitch as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. The Special Committee on Economic Development reviewed the submission and the outcome of the review by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee introduced the corresponding draft Decree with registration number 10015 for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The relevant materials are given to you. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, and we agreed on this procedure: presenting the candidate for 2 minutes; speaking to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee for up to 5 minutes; questions to the candidate from the Ukrainian National Deputies for up to 10 minutes; a report from the Committee of Profiles for up to 2 minutes; statements from the deputies' factions and groups for 2 minutes (16 minutes in sum) and decision-making. Up to 35 minutes. If there is no objection, I would like to propose a vote to support such a procedure. 150 votes. Please vote. [[13:23:36]] For 271 Thank you. This procedure is supported. Let's move on to the question. Mr Oleg Mikolaiovich Nemčinov, Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is invited to present the candidate. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u69	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, dear colleagues! According to article 85, part one, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Smigal, proposes the appointment of Kirilenko Pavel Alexandrovich as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u70	Thank you. A candidate for the post of Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Paul Alexanderovich Kirilenko, is invited to the floor. Please, in 3 minutes, in 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u71	Good day, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues, revered Ukrainian unbreakable people! While on this rostrum, I personally feel a great responsibility as a person, as a citizen, and as an officer. Proud to be part of a great country, one that has become an example of incorruptibility and incorruptibility for the whole world, that country that I am proud of, making the most of my efforts or being useful and working for the future of its citizens and the nearness of our one, and I am not tired of repeating my expression, or the most important goal of the state for now, is our only common victory. Righteousness will take hold of the mountain, and we will surely win. But justice is the word, that's the expression, that's the second name our nation should be called. The internal social demand for justice in the state, and I'm sure, honourable national MPs, each of you feels it, is one of the most painful painful points now and during the full-scale war, and with our successes on the front, but the demand for justice is too great. And in these extremely difficult times, I know very well, and I understand how acute this question feels about Ukrainian business. The same one who sends trucks to help our defenders and residents in the front of the community, to the repossessed communities, the one who makes up the budget, the one who fills the budget tirelessly, stubbornly. And clearly we need to see and understand how to move clearly and transparently through business aid. People who have rockets and Shahedes flying over their heads are still trying to run an honest business. And believe me, I know what I'm talking about. They continue to form a gross national product and fill the national budget. They do this in a country where there is a brutal, violent, sorry, full-scale war, but not only with the Russian occupation, but also with a long history of total corruption. Abuse of natural and artificial monopolies, illegal competition, illegal concerted action, and violation of the requirements of effective law in public procurement. It's not just phrases and professional slang from current legislation, antimonopoly legislation, it's one of the main priorities in keeping and weighing that can't be achieved that goal that came from me a minute ago. Ukrainian President Vladimir Aleksandrovich Zelenski declared a personal war of corruption and abuse during the war. So each and every one of you must also make a contribution in his place to the victory of this war. I won't talk much about myself. I'm going to say that in 11 years I've been working in various offices in the U.S. Attorney's Office, I have some experience and investigations into economic crimes, including. Before that 50 months, and somehow yesterday I thought, I was in charge of the Donetsk district government for exactly 50 months, and for 18 months I was in charge of the district military administration. In my eyes, the free part of the region flourished at first, experienced a dynamic development, and then on the fourth morning of February 24. My memory will be forever flourishing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u72	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u73	I know how people fought there, and now they keep doing it. I believe in our strong team to achieve the fundamental foundations of maintaining integrity in the state after our victory and at the time of our victory. I believe in Ukraine, I believe in our undeniable victory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u74	Heroic glory! Please sign up for a question to the candidate. Please, Mazurashu Georgiy Georgievich, "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u75	Thank you. Please pass the word to Nekludov Vladen.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u76	Uncluded Vladen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u77	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, Paul Alexanderovich. I have two questions for you. The first thing that happened yesterday was your presentation on the faction, or was it, if not, why? And the second question is that your statement on the committee today said that your main task would be to fill the budget. What does that mean? Does that mean that you won't ensure competition between businesses, and you'll make it a priority for businesses to prepare and you'll use everything to fine them? How can you understand that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u78	Thank you for asking. On the first question. If you have a presentation and you compare it, Mr. People's Deputy, with one representing the faction and the other, they were slightly different. I proved the information that I was asked before entering the faction, and it was still determined by my presence or perhaps my absence from the faction in another office. That's the first question. On the second question. If you take the record, I ask with all due respect, but there is no way to distort the information that was discussed on the profile committee and that the main task is to fill the budget. This is the problem where budget filling can be and needs to be created, but not at the expense of business. And this was discussed on the profile committee and with your professional colleagues. But there is no way that one of the main tasks is to fill the budget did not occur at the committee meeting. And so by continuing your question, I'm also going to answer that if I put the goal of filling the budget at the expense of the functioning of the AMCA, it certainly doesn't lead to the goal that I've made in my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u79	Please, Dmitri Oksana, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u80	Please pass the word to Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u81	Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u82	Thank you. Paul Alexanderovich, we've known you for a long time, you've been a good VCA head, a good VA head. I don't quite understand why you're going to this position, because you're going to have to figure out after your predecessor, after what you've done, destroyed and transformed this body from a normal body that has to work for business to a repressive one. I'd like to hear your position on this subject, to hear the promise, you keep your promise that work in this office, if you're elected, will be for the state, not for a particular business, not for specific political forces, not for specific purposes non-state, but really for what it was created for and what the Antimonopoly Committee is to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u83	Thank you. Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Thank you for saying so. We really know each other a long time ago, and when I was here. In fact, from the time of the appointment. And you know, when I was going, and what I had left was an area that was complicated, it would be more like fiction and lyrical retreat. But compassion was also given to me when I was in my previous position. Shall I call my answer self - confidence? That's right, no. Understanding where to move and what to do. That's right. Accurate understanding, and without any paphos, taking away any skeletons in the cabinet of the Donetsk district administration, I'm not afraid of it, I know it's not. And from that I go to the basic answer that I have never betrayed my principles and principles of serving the state, they are fundamental. That's my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u84	Please, Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, "Ukrainian Remembrance."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u85	Anatoly Burmich, Ukraine's Remembrance Group. Dear Paul Alexanderovich, I listened very carefully to your speech, you said, of course, we also know that you have a legal education, you have experience, you said, fighting economic crimes, you will fill the budget. I'd like to ask you, if I may, briefly, at least with these strokes, how will your work fill the budget, as you see it?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u86	Can I answer that? Thank you. Again, just so that there's no distortion on the question of action, maybe it's not exactly a question: let's immediately count how much we're going to fill the budget by putting pressure on business and not exactly promoting investment in Ukraine. I'm not talking about the areas where active fighting is taking place. But when it comes to how to organize work on execution, budgeting, the main direction is to create a transparent situation for business. And believe me, maybe, I know for sure, and I never counted on anyone to like a job, and those who know me, they know what I'm talking about. But I know exactly what those directions that I've chosen and will appropriately refer to expertise, including people who are and function on the committee, and including those that will come in, but that will be later, if the time comes. I'm going to say that there's no way that filling the budget is a priority, and that's as a result of putting an end to disruptions in the field of business that might say that it's doing purely by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u87	Please, Voice, Julia Leonidovna Klimenko. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u88	Paul Alexanderovich, I have heard of you from the city of Mariupola and many positive things about you, especially since the beginning of the war. But it's really strange to me why you're leaving your post and moving on to such a difficult position as the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. And I'd like to understand how well you're prepared for this position. One of the functions of the Antimonopoly Committee is to monitor public procurement. I have two simple questions to understand your competence. First. How many, by law, do we have authorized to deal with public procurement complaints on the Antimonopoly Committee? And the second. What maximum fine could be for distorting trade? Thank you. Please give a brief answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u89	Thank you. I'm not going to say it looks like an exam, but the expertise, it should be in everything. I missed a little bit, but I'm going to go on with the last question, as well as the legal practice that I did in my previous activity, in the previous one, as it relates to the functioning of current legislation, anti-monopoly legislation. It is more relevant to adopted and already adopted legislation on antitrust legislation, where it is important to apply additional measures to business but to protect economic competition. Answering your question, and actually reviewing the complaints most involved in public procurement, refer to those authorized to make public purchases that, according to the competences of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, are appointed solely by the Head. There may not be more than ten. That's the answer to your question. I don't think I got it mixed up. And by answering the fines, the precise question I'm not going to ask, and I'm not going to be there by thousands, and so on. Maybe we'll get to know each other separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u90	Thank you. Please, Igor Pavlovich Fries, "Serve of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u91	Good afternoon. I don't have a question -- I'm here, Paul Alexanderovich, I'm here -- I don't have a question, I have a recommendation that's so small, just so you can remember then when you work, if the room supports your candidacy. A bill on the Antimonopoly Committee was recently passed. And it's made appropriate changes to the profile legislation that I'm looking after, that's notariat legislation. And there are appropriate powers given to the Antimonopoly Committee, which fall under the general authority of other state bodies, that is, preferences are given. With the previous head of the Antimonopoly Committee, we had an agreement to make appropriate changes to the Antimonopoly's clearance of information, which is a notary secret, as well as to other public authorities, and to provide relevant documents of the established model. I'm going to ask you, in the future, to correct this and bring legislation into line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u92	Thank you, but I'm used to taking a fundamental approach to this, you have to work out whether there are any colossalities, as far as I can understand, and imposing a legal coalition, so that, if you go out of them, including one of the directions, I haven't said about them, it's a close relationship with the honourable national deputies to achieve the result, namely legal improvement, and to bring about the appropriateness of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u93	Thank you, Pavel Alexanderovich. You can take your place. The chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Development, Dmitry Andriyovich Nataluha, is invited to speak for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u94	Thank you, Your Honor Alexander Sergiyovich. Honorary colleagues, a committee based on paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the approval of Mr. Paul’s candidacy as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. What I'm saying is that we've had a committee today, we've talked about a lot of hard questions both for the person who claims to be in office, especially in the context of the implementation of the Oligarch Act, so-called, the implementation of positions on the removal of natural monopolies of their influence on political processes and their impact on economic processes in the state. The issue of anti-monopoly competitive reform was discussed as an ingredient for the integration of our nation. And, in principle, there is an understanding that, with the support of Parliament, with the support of the committee, such work can be constructive and positive given that we have a practice when Parliament, with the representatives of the probative authorities, found a common language and achieved some results. In our opinion, this could be a completely and completely identical situation, so we'd like to ask you to support the nomination and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u95	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the Antimonopoly Committee in any developed democracy is the most influential body in the system of economic relations. It is more influential than tax, more influential than various economic investigators, and even more sometimes influential than the National Bank. That's why if you look at the compendium of any international company that doesn't just work in Ukraine, you'll see the first word of the antitrust, because the Antimonopoly Committee has such powers that they can shut down any company in a second. And so it's very important in every state to build an independent institution of the Antimonopoly Committee. I did not vote in favour of 5,431 just out of doubt that we have such a desire. And, frankly, until I saw the effective work of the Antimonopoly Committee. How can we determine whether it is effective or not? A very simple example. Each of you has seen those, let's speak plainly, spices in public purchases that have been going on in public space: drums, vegetables, a negative nuclear power plant that buys more gloves than before the war -- and this can be responded to by the Antimonopoly Committee. That's why I asked Paul Alexanderovich this question, 10 percent of turnover is what the Antimonopoly Committee can do for distorting the results of public purchases. I'm sure you'll vote it today. As a representative of Mariupol, I am most likely pleased that our head of the military administration will now take up this position. But I really hope that someday we'll get to when we're assigning people to create an institution independent of any branch of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u97	Thank you. Please, Papiev. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please, "Platform for Life and Peace."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u98	Thank you, Your Honor Alexander Sergiyovich. Further to yesterday's topic of antitrust legislation in Ukraine. Why it is so important at all, and what the previous speaker said is one of the fundamental dimensions of the economic policy of the state. See, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine in 2019, when we first arrived, reported that 58 percent in Ukraine were monopolies, oligopoly and dominant companies. 58 percent! This was in 2019. 42 was an entrepreneurial environment. Now the situation has obviously deteriorated, although the official data is not published. What is held back by monopolies in Ukraine? They're holding back small and medium-sized businesses, they're holding back the competitive environment, they're holding back the involvement of foreign direct investment, they're reducing the volume itself, there's an outflow, and there's an annual flow of foreign direct investment. This amount is smaller, for example, than the transfer of labour costs to migrant workers. Therefore, the Antimonopoly Committee should be a full institution and form one of those who will ensure fair rules of economic competition within the country. This is exactly what the European Commission concludes on the compatibility of competition and protection within Ukraine. There are a number of comments. You'll have to pay attention to that, too, because we have commitments under the implementation of the Association Agreement, including in this direction. Actually, look what we're coming to all of these things for. I'd like to get two digits. We had only $160 billion in gross domestic product last year. If we take it at comparable prices in 2015, that's the World Bank, it's only 72 billion dollars. To overcome this critical economic slowdown, we need to stimulate foreign investment. Without transparent antitrust legislation, this will not happen. So we support this step, but you're going to have to do a lot of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u99	Yes, "Resurrection."Shevchenko Eugene Volodymyrovich, yes? Burmich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u100	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Fellow, Honourable Paul Alexanderovich! I've asked you a question about how you're going to do your vision of how the budget is being filled. I'd like to do a few strokes too, maybe you'll take it into account. I'd like all of us, I think, to start your work by looking at monopolies that affect the lives of ordinary people. It's just a monopoly on gas, we have one monopoly, we know there's no market, there's no electricity. I wanted you to use those powers that we accepted as our former heads, actually turning the Antimonopoly Committee into a law enforcement agency, and you're going to have enough authority, and you're looking at how prices for the same gas are forming in that same Naftogaza, for example. They're driving away all the thefts, their million-dollar wages, their headstrongness, and everything else, comparing them to actually prices that go into effect for people. Thus, the State monopoly does not receive any income, does not pay any taxes. And that's why you're going to fight, and you're going to fill the budget. The same applies to electricity. People will feel -- they will have authority in you, in the state, in your Antimonopoly Committee. So at this point in time, I would like to wish you fruitful work in this direction, the "Deliverance of Ukraine" Group supports your candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u101	Please, "Serve of the People," Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u102	Please pass the word to Dmitri Natalus.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u103	Nataluha, please, Dmitri Andrievich. Invite the deputies to the hall, we'll vote soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u104	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we've already discussed this at the committee meeting. I'd like to focus on this one more time and pay attention not only to the potential head of the Antimonopoly Committee, but also to the rest of the deputies. One of the most critical issues in the work of the Antimonopoly Committee is the regulation of state aid. State aid regulation entails restrictions on the State's influence on economic development, on economic growth, on aid to certain sectors and industries in the context or programmes of 5-7-9, or industrial parks, or "investment". All of this is perceived by EU legislation as state aid and must be regulated. So I would very much like to deal with this issue with the Antimonopoly Committee with great attention and prudence, because the context, reality and conditions in which our State operates are very different from the context, conditions and conditions in which the EU states are located. And the historical circumstances that have led to the regulation of state aid there and here are equally different. We do not simply have the moral right to recover from aid in this war to bind our hands and hands to our national institutions and our ministries in helping individual sectors of the economic recovery. So, Mr. Paul, once again, I call your attention to this, I remind you of the position under the Localization Act, which also needs to be given special attention in the context of ignoring this requirement by many public funds managers, and State aid. Colleagues, please, let's not miss this chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u105	And please, "European Solidarity." Nina Petrovn Jujanin? Please. Invite the deputies to the hall, we'll vote now. Please, Oleg Mikhailovich Sinyutka, please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u106	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I have been pleased to hear from the various groups and factions now, because, indeed, all of you have stressed that the Antimonopoly Committee has never been able to implement its basic function of protecting economic competition on the basis of equality of operators (article 3 of the Antimonopoly Committee Act). But I'd like to speak to the candidate. You would listen carefully because you will hear things here, perhaps from which you would start your work. Have you heard of the work of the Antimonopoly Committee on State Procurement? Maybe you've heard at least about investigating the anticompetitive concerted action of the bidders involved in the creation. Distortion of trade results? Would you please tell me, during all the years of this great road - construction theft, have you heard of the fact of the multibillion - dollar plot investigation and have you begun to investigate such plots? These are big businesses that are still winning the biggest all government orders: the Motorway, the Motorway South. During the 21st year, over 50 billion dollars were won in one hand, while other participants were thrown out of the trade altogether. Please tell me about the purchases of the Mini-Defense. Indeed, the Ministry of Defense is out of the Public Procurement Act, but the AMC may have the authority to investigate non-competitive concerted acts. But in all these years, as far as we can tell about this whole corruption, the AMC has never once reported the start of an investigation into any scandalous purchase of the Ministry of Defense. Please understand that reform, that adopted law? You're actually losing your independence right now, but you're taking on big functions, not the kind of organization that has to fight for economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u109	Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened very carefully to the candidate and, frankly, with all due respect to the candidate, I wanted to hear the words in his speech "monopoly", "monopoly influence", "market share", "mixture/absorbing", "unification of legal persons", "unification of legal persons", "control." Instead, I heard the words "the revenue of the state budget," "I was a good prosecutor," some other word that, with all due respect to the candidate, had nothing to do with the work of the Antimonopoly Committee. I believe that the role of the Antimonopoly Committee will be absolutely decisive even now, and especially after the end of the war. And that's exactly where you're going to have to use the scalpel, the economic scalpel, as an economic tool to control markets and influence markets. Unfortunately, I didn’t hear anything during the performance. Instead, there was talk of volunteers, of small business and so on, and so on, and so on. In fact, the position of the Antimonopoly Committee is now very important in relation to the recommendations of the Venice Commission under oligarch law. And by the way, I didn't hear the word "oligarch" in the speech of the distinguished Mr. Candidate for the post of Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. With all due respect, Mr. Candidate, to you as a human being, I think that only as a former attorney can I tell you that only the prosecution's experience, well, is not enough to run such an important state institution that needs systematic reform as the Antimonopoly Committee. But we wish you success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u111	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. Please take your seats. We'll be clear. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the entire draft Decree (registration number 10015) on the appointment of Kirilenek Pavel Alexanderovich as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:00:02]] For the 250. Decision taken. Actor's been approved. Show the factions, please. Welcome, Reverend Paul Alexanderovich. We want effort in your new, challenging task. We welcome the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee for this responsible office. We've got a break with a replacement for the show. Tweezer, please. "Serve of the people." And what's the second faction? Please, Tachenko. For the restoration. "Trust," for recovery, two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, we welcome all of you, and we want to present today our interfractional UPO-Ukraine MPs. I think that, unfortunately, everyone in the country already knows how it's translated and what it means to be a VPO is an internally displaced person, it's all people like you, just like us. Moreover, there are a large number of displaced persons among our interfractional MPs. I'm Maxim, I'm from Lugansk. Ruslan Gorbenko of Lugansk, Sergey Kozir of Donetsk, Alexander Sukhov of Lysicánsk, Master of Power from Rubižne, Sergey, and other colleagues who have been internally displaced for the past 10 years. We have created our interfractional MPs to protect the interests and rights of these millions of people who really need the help of the State. We are certainly grateful to our main heroes today, our protectors and protectors, our Armed Forces of Ukraine. Let's give these heroes a round of applause, these people. [[Applause]] But I want to remind you that we're constantly talking about a huge number of people, as I've already pointed out -- these are more than 5 million people, and they're just officially registered immigrants in our crane. I am very grateful to all of you, and I am grateful to our President for his constant mention of helping these people in these last talks. I am grateful to all the district military administrations that, few of them, but there are leaders who care for these people and remember them. For example, it is the Luhansk Authority, which, thank God, created, over these months, the Habi, created places where there is help for the displaced. Unfortunately, the Donetsk district administration has forgotten about a million people who have moved and are now in every corner of the country. Yet, we hope that all of us will remember these people. And I want from all of us, from our team, to welcome from all of us the two cities of heroes, the two cities of the Ukrainian hearts of our country. A few days ago was the Day of the City of Donetsk. Let's welcome our Ukrainian Donetsk. [[Applause]] And a few days later, September 9, as always, it was, it was, and it would be, we would welcome my own, our own Lugansk with birthday. Happy birthday, Ukrainian Lugansk! [[Applause]] And, Maria, you have a word, a few words.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u113	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want us to pay attention and applaud to the incredible forces of defense, who just a year ago released one of the most difficult perps of this brutal war, is the Harkian way. Then, a year ago, friends released 400 settlements, over 150,000 Ukrainians heard their relatives, hugged them, kissed them, and waited.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u114	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. VPO. We move on to the next issue of the agenda: the elimination of disagreement in the text we adopted yesterday of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and Other Laws on Improving the Order of Attraction to Responsibility of Persons Authorized to Act of State or Local Self-Government (registration number 9587-d). On September 6, 2023, I was contacted by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement with the proposal to remove inconsistencies and inaccuracies in the text adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 5, 2023, of the Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences and Other Laws of Ukraine on Improving the Order of Attraction to Responsibility of Persons Authorized to Perform State or Local Self-Government (Registration No. 9587-d). During the preparation of the text of the adopted law for signature, there were differences in its individual positions. In view of what is being considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 2 of the second article 80, article 131 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure provides for the elimination of disagreements in this law. The materials are given to you. According to part four of article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is not being discussed. So let's go to the vote. Now I'm going to put each proposal separately, two of them. The vote is on proposal number one. Ready to vote? Please vote. Offer number one. [[14:06:17]] For 251 Decision taken. The offer is included. The vote is number two. People's deputies, please vote. [[2:06:42]] For 255 Decision taken. The offer is included. The question has been completed. Thank you. Next question of the agenda. These bills will continue, some will not be discussed, and some with little discussion, so the request will not go away. So let's go to Bill 9483-2. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain laws of Ukraine concerning the change of status and the formation of the Service of Disciplinary Inspectors of the High Council of Justice (second reading). Please, a committee representative for the rostrum. The head of the committee, please, Denis Vejacheslavovich Maslov. And we had the papers, the speeches were, Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko and Demchenko, three revisions. Six minutes, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Five minutes. Seven? I can't see. Okay, 7 minutes, Vlasenko, then Demchenko, and then we go to the vote. Okay. And "Resurrection."", good.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u115	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u116	It's seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u117	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have 117 amendments, I don't want to raise them all, I'm just going to take a really 7 minute performance. I just want to remind you, colleagues, what this law is about and what we are now offered to vote on. We have, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, a constitutional body called the Supreme Council of Justice. According to the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Justice has a number of powers, including the authority to involve judges in disciplinary responsibility. Two years ago, this session room voted that, contrary to the Constitution, this is my deep conviction, contrary to the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Justice de facto, de facto, this authority was taken away by creating some institution of disciplinary inspectors, which is not provided for by the Constitution. And this Institute of Disciplinary Inspectors has been given certain powers by decision, according to disciplinary conduct in relation to judges, that is, in fact, instead of the Constitutional Authority of the High Council of Justice. Some of my colleagues tell me that's not true, but look, and then one day, I'm going to have an I.R.P.D. on this issue in the end. I gave this very simple and clear example to the honourable Head of the Committee several times. If God forbid he wants to marry, his wife will choose me, and he will marry. And then it would mean that he got married. That's about the same model we're offered at the work of the High Council of Justice, taking constitutional powers into the constitutional body. Yeah, they're going to look at the conclusions of the disciplinary inspectors, and so, they're going to evaluate these conclusions, but they can't handle any of these things on their own. There's a huge problem first. Now it's a friend's problem. What was the need for this law? The problem in this law has arisen once again in what appears to be the Ukrainians, according to those who vote in favour of this law, are less valuable. Because we can't, without outside advice, choose seven people -- seven honest independent people who can select these disciplinary inspectors. It turns out that we, the nation that is protecting the country today and the nation that is now the shield of Europe, are unable to select six or seven independent people who will be able to select disciplinary inspectors. Last time I called a series of names that, to my deep conviction, are undeniable authorities both in jurisprudence and in matters of integrity. This is also Professor Kozur, former judges of the Constitutional Court of Šishkin, Didkovsky, Dombrowski. I can call a lot of other names that are independent, honest, open-minded people, and who can really appreciate both professionally and honestly those candidates that you want to elect as disciplinary inspectors. And for that we don't need advice from outside, we know all of these people. According to the Ukrainian Constitution, only citizens of Ukraine have the right to participate in the functioning of state authorities and administrations, including the formation of the judicial system. We are being pushed to violate this constitutional requirement, and we are asked to do something else. Third position. Please tell me that the members of the UPR, who were elected with the help of foreign counsellors, all embassies of foreign states have warmly welcomed the election of the members of the High Council of Justice. Whom do we not trust now, huh? Why do we now create these disciplinary inspectors, who will also be chosen by foreigners? But to whom do we not trust? Why can't we go back to the constitutional way in which the constitutional body functions in Ukraine? Who among the members of the IORP do not have confidence? Give it up for everybody! It's working today. But the IDP still can't make decisions about discipline, because there are no disciplinary inspectors. And yet another story, you all remember that a few weeks ago, this Supreme Council passed a law to restore the disciplinary function of the CFP. And by the way, it's temporary, but a return to the constitutional order, when the High Council of Justice will be able to handle itself, without any disciplinary inspectors, to draw judges to disciplinary responsibility. But nobody reinstated the disciplinary function of GWP immediately. The restoration of the disciplinary function of the IDP has been linked to this law that we are considering today. Why? You don't trust the Supreme Council? Is there no trust in the Committee of Legal Policy? You don't trust the head of the committee? I don't understand these games! In fact, we need to do it immediately, and immediately we needed to reinstate the disciplinary function. By the way, one representative of so-called projects, a representative who took part in our committee's work, he clearly said, "You know, I don't care when you reinstate your disciplinary function." I mean, a person doesn't care when he recovers from Ukraine the possibility of bringing judges to justice in general. As an expert, he doesn't care when this system works. Unfortunately, and such experts, self-appointed experts, dictate to the Ukrainian Parliament today how we should act. I say again, as parliamentarians, we should definitely not give up any advice, absolutely. But let's think critically, let's stick to the Ukrainian Constitution, let's live by our laws. As long as we live by our laws, we are a state. If that's not the case, we're somebody else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u118	Yes. Are you not correcting this, Sergey Volodymyrovich? Okay. Then Demchenko and then "Delivery of Ukraine." Please. The number of the right or what? You'll bet? You have confirmation, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u119	I've got 436, 437 for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u120	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u121	Two minutes from the start, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u122	Two minutes, please, Demchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u123	My colleagues, I understand that the question of judges may not be of particular interest to everyone here, but if I say that this bill raises the issue of PEP. The question of PEP is set out in this bill and by confirming these amendments, you become judges in the condition that we have now passed the PEP bill. What are they? That would be the endless limitation of life’s appeal to disciplinary responsibility. So any judge can be hanged on a hook and pulled accordingly for the rest of his life. These adjustments completely invalidate the limitation of time after this exercise. Colleagues, besides being with you in nature against the PEP Act, on its principle of living responsibility, we accordingly have the position of the European Court of Human Rights. This is the organization that we're going to have the halo that we're going to go to if we're going to join the European Union. Colleagues, the ECHR has already said in an appropriate decision concerning Ukraine, unfortunately, the decision "Wolkov v. Ukraine". He quoted a violation of article 8 of the convention as a result of a breach of the principle of legal certainty due to the absence of provisions in Ukraine’s legislation regarding the length of time it took to hold a judge responsible for the breach of an oath. Colleagues, if you and I would like each of you, as a deputy, to violate the rules of the ECHR, please, support these regulations. Colleagues, if we think that responsibility, as PEP says, can't be useful to MPs, and for judges, it can also support these amendments, so the judges are worse than the deputies. And last but not least, colleagues. In our lives, we have several opportunities to vote by law. That's the one.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u124	Mr. Sergei, we're about to find out, "Resurrection." to take into account an amendment or a confirmation. Do you mind, Mrs. Slavicka? One to count. It's for confirmation, isn't it? Okay. Then let's take yours into account, and then we'll move on to confirmation. Please, Slavicka. Slavic or Voronko. Who? What's the matter? An alien? Please, Slavicka. You don't have a card inserted. Got it? Better so. It's all right, talk to me. The Glad System, we call on you to conduct some technical inspection of the hall the second time in a day.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u125	The microphone's on. Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have a lot of rights, but I only want to put one. I don't think there should be any questions about her. Many colleagues put it up, more faithfully, offered it to the committee, but somehow it was not counted. The point is that we ask you to clear up the phrase that members of the High Council of Justice may be part of a competition commission from the selection of inspectors. This rule is also based on the conclusion of the Anticorruption Committee, which noted that there might be a conflict of interest in members of the High Council of Justice, since they would then conduct interviews. And many deputies made such an offer. So I'd like to hear the logic of Mr. Chairman of the Committee, why it wasn't taken into account by the conclusion of the anti-corruptive committee. And you told me that it was as if there was no desire for members of the IDP to enter. If there is no desire, it can, in principle, be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u126	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u127	369th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u128	Okay. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u129	Now. Yes, 369 revisions rejected by the committee, position very simple. We had recommendations from three of our international partners that three members of the High Council of Justice should be part of a competitive commission. We talked to them about it and we said, how do they have to do a lot of work plus there might still be a conflict of interest. That's why we've come together in intelligent language that the Justice Council itself appoints members to a competitive commission. The High Council of Justice may appoint any specialist, including a member of the High Council of Justice. And I confirm by talking to the High Council of Justice, they weren't going to assign themselves to avoid creating a conflict of interest. But it was a discrepancy, projects, that required them to enter, but we still stood still, I think, a reasonable position. So I ask you to reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u130	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the National Deputy of Savitsky. It is Slavic to take into account the number 369 of her authorship and the national deputy Tkachenka. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:21:47]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. You've got everything, haven't you? Okay. You're out of microphone. Give Slavic a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u131	There are still clearances for confirmation. Sound them now?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u132	Now let's put yours and then Sergei. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u133	I suggest. I think so. Okay. The following confirmations are number 56 and relate to it 362. This is to say that representatives of foreign partners who will be on the majority vote committee will appoint inspectors for seven years instead of five years. So we're not going to be discussing the constitutionality of a model that we have everywhere, but there's still the conclusion of the Venice Commission that says the timing of such a action. So it’s interesting to hear arguments and logic, how did the five - year period get even higher?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u134	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u135	Thank you. The logic of this proposal is as follows. For a period of five years, we have made sure that disciplinary inspectors are assigned, not to life, but to a certain period of time. And why not five years, as was the first reading, but seven years? In order for the first two members of the disciplinary inspectors to be selected as a special model, which provides for an open, transparent competition to ensure that there is no claim to the integrity and professionalism of these people who will do a fairly responsible job. In order to have two appointments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u136	Yeah, that's a confirmation. Amendment number 56, it is counted by the committee, the National MP Maslov. National MP Slavicka proposes to place her on confirmation. Please vote. [[14:24:10]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Should we put 362 now? No, she's the same. Okay. Another one? Please, Slavicka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u137	Not yet, four more. 77, 78, they are related, this is the question of assistants to the High Council of Justice, which appeared in a second reading. The main legal authorities in their observations, which, by the way, are very thorough, on 14 pages, mention very often that the bill violates the Constitution, noted, among other things, that it was a violation of article 116 of the Rules. It is not entirely clear whether they will pay for the work of these helpers, as well as whether they will be the subject of the declaration. So I'm asking you to confirm these changes, they're related to 77, 78. And the committee head's arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u138	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u139	Thank you. Colleagues, we predict that each member of the High Council of Justice may have assistants. They existed before, and their functions were performed by disciplinary inspectors. Since disciplinary inspectors will now be a separate unit within the structure of the High Council of Justice, it is perfectly logical for 21 members of the High Council of Justice to be assistants just as judges do. One of the functions to be decided by the High Justice is to consider 11,000 complaints. Without help, they will not do so. Therefore, they are introduced and introduced within the budget of the High Council of Justice. So please support the proposal given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u140	Edit number, one more time, 80.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u141	77 said.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u142	78.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u143	Well, 78.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u144	78, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u145	And they're logically connected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u146	No, it's just 77, it's partially accounted for, and 78, it's completely accounted for. Which one do you want to put?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u147	77.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u148	77th. Okay. Amendment No. 77 of the People's Deputies of Maslov. It's part of the committee. National MP Slavicka proposes to place her on confirmation. Please vote. [[14:27:08]] For 235 Decision taken. Edit is left to the partially accounted for by the committee. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u149	The next amendment is 337. But I think Mr. Demchenko wanted to put it on, too. Oh, that's different. Yeah, it's about the broadcast session. Mr. Demchenko will be there to sound that position. Then I'll shoot.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u150	Okay. Please, Demchenko, 436th, 437th. Which one do we start with? The card needs to be inserted. 436.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u151	436 lashes. It's related to 437th. I'd like you to set up the clearances, not support them, colleagues. First, they contradict the European Convection for the protection of human rights and freedoms, as I said before. Secondly, they discriminate against a single group of judges, violating their rights, because of circumstances that have arisen not because of them, but because of the state itself. And you can't set unlimited periods of commitment to responsibility, vital responsibility, like PEP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u152	I'll bet you a vote. Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u153	Look, colleagues, clean water manipulation. You've been reminded of the PEP question. There is no question of PEP at all. And there are no restrictions on the rights of persons or on the responsibilities of life. The story is quite clear here. Now 11,000 complaints are in the High Council of Justice. If this is not done, some of the underlying complaints will simply be closed. That's it. Someone will be saved from responsibility. Therefore, it must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u154	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the Demchenka People's Demchenka People's Demchenka to confirm number 436. It's counted by the committee. Please vote. Confirming Amendment, 436. [[14:29:56]] For 245 Decision taken. Edit is accounted for. 430. Let's not put it in. Then we go to the vote for the bill. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges and certain laws of Ukraine concerning the change in the status and order of the service of disciplinary inspectors of the Supreme Council of Justice (registration number 9483-d) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[14:30:49]] For 268. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of the order of the day, this second reading is the same. Bill No. 9638: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the social protection of military personnel, police officers and others. We had a performance called Fatherland. It won't. "European Solidarity", three revisions. And then there's Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov. Please, who's doing the editing? European. Hot plate, please. Toncharenko, Heratchenko and Fedina. Okay. Please, Hotcharyenko, the number of the readout.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u155	Alexei Hotcharenko, number six. Look, I want to pay attention, a very important bill, and I urge everyone to support it. At last, we're dealing with the issues of the DDSN workers who have been captured. Actually, we have the DSNS system, and we're not paying proper attention to it. After the 30's, they lost their pay, and many of their other issues haven't been solved. So we have to solve this, we have to support this service, because they're also on the front line, in reality, and let's not forget that. And this law finally solves the issue of preschoolers and trainees, including, by the way, the DNSN students. That the payments we've made for them, 6,000 dollars for the termites, and 2,000 dollars for the coursers, will be absolute. Not the way the government already treats it, which is either 6, or 30, and so on. We must accept this, and the law is vital. Colleagues, I urge you all to support and remember these categories. Thank you. You can't put the edit on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u156	All right, Alexyyyovich. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is just the law worked by the working group, which is very important. And this is a positive example of the constructive work of Parliament and the working group in dealing with the issues of the truly captured, representatives of the Emergency Service. At the same time, I would like to point out to colleagues that the working group has not yet registered the promised UBB status laws. This bill has been registered by Peter Poroshenko, our team, and we propose to accept it so that 850,000 Ukrainian Armed Forces will automatically receive UBD, not in turn. And just as important, dear colleagues and Mrs. Mariana, who is also a representative of the working group, represents the authority to ensure that these laws are good, as we vote for the government to do. It's insane that still wounded instructors, cadets, termists don't get paid, and here we have as a parliament to return the "hour of questions to the government" and ask what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u158	Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u159	Thank you. Edit 48 for confirmation. In fact, I would like to point out that this bill is a very unique example of how effective it is to work together. And I would also like to point out that we have over 850,000 military personnel who do not yet have UBB. During the days of the train station, I also picked up military personnel who are on the front line for a year and a year and a year and a half and a half, so far they have neither UBB nor they know where the documents are. So I would like to ask our parliamentarians in parallel to move to the session hall as soon as possible and to vote on Bill 9680 in order to start solving the problem. Then, too, the ministry will finally approve all the procedures and all the payments that military officials have made at last had the opportunity to pay. Because in this case, what we saw was total disregard for our military personnel and abuse of their families. Thank you. You can't put the edit on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u160	Thank you. Please, we have Anna Speedboat. It's on your count, isn't it? Two readouts. Name the numbers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u161	Number 38. My colleagues, I'm going to read you this paper, and I've picked it up on several occasions in the task force, but somehow it's not accepted. "The military officer who left the prison is granted a three-month leave of absence with all the payments, including the bonuses and allowances he received during his stay in captivity." Colleagues, it's just a protection for those who were in captivity and an opportunity for them to get a three-month vacation. I'm asking you to support this exercise, because it's also requested by the Azova patronage, and by the military personnel themselves, and by the boys who got out of captivity. So I'm offering it to support and give the boys this opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u162	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u163	Thank you. The amendment has been rejected because it requires quite a lot of work and changes to the laws governing it, so it is proposed to be further developed in the working group. We're also working in a working group to solve the complex issues of prisoners, there's a problem and there's a liberation. Thus, the proposed amendment requires, inter alia, the determination of the duration of such leave on calendar days, the type of leave, the need to amend other laws, as I have stated, with regard to the introduction of a new type of leave, the need for the introduction of the time needed to travel, take a vacation and back in view of the prescriptions of article 10.1 of the same law on the order of leave for military personnel. So we have to work on the next packet. That's why it was. This was rejected because it needs further changes to additional laws, particularly laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u164	Thank you, Marianne Volodymyr. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the People's Deputy Speedhod to take into account the number 38 of her authorship. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:37:03]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And the next number?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u165	39. I don't know what to do there, by the way, because we've been looking at vacations, and I've repeatedly raised this question. 39th. All medical facilities are involved in the provision of medical care to military personnel regardless of the form of property – public, private, municipal. An army official has the right to choose for himself a medical facility for treatment and rehabilitation regardless of the form of medical facility property, if the medical institution guarantees that all financial obligations for treatment and/or rehabilitation will be met. It's the same as what the Azova Patronate Service is asking for. Colleagues, today a military officer cannot move to another medical facility without a crazed, total bureaucratic procedure. And the position of the U.S.S. and the doctors that they should all be in equal conditions is the position, you know, one die and the other maybe save. So give the boys a choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u166	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u167	Yes, the remedy is rejected, since this is an amendment to the Health Foundations Act. We're ready to go over this further and submit a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u168	I'm betting on a vote to take into account the order number 39 of the Krakhod People's Deputy. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:38:45]] For-146 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, please. Do you have a receipt or confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u169	By the way, Alexander Sergiyovich, number 46. Dear colleagues, she's not adding anything, there's no extra payments from the budget, there's no expense. But all of us remember that the authorities must be accountable to their defenders, especially those who have died and their families. You remember that today, payments for each family amount to 15 million dollars. I'm asking you very much that then the new government, when it resigns, doesn't once again change at the request of the families of the dead, secure payment of 15 million dollars at the level of the law. And let's not manipulate, no extra budget expenditure needs this, it's already fixed at the level of the nation's promises to the defenders and their families. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u170	Please, number four. The position of the committee will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u171	It's okay. It's okay. What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u172	46.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u173	Rule 46, a minute, number 46 is dismissed because we settled the money issue in Bill 9342. And accordingly this amendment was rejected in the previous bill, and it needs it. What is proposed is currently regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers. These regulations are being worked out, part of which is already fully operational.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u174	to vote on the proposal by Dmitri Alexandrovich Razumková to take into account the amendment number 46 of his authorship and colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:40:59]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u175	80 revisions, that's the same thing. Colleagues, you are now seeing a lie in the walls of the Supreme Council -- I'm just trying to pick out a statement -- when the reporter says that they settled it in another law, and in another sentence says that they didn't settle it. So where's the truth? You either tell our protectors and their families the truth that you're not planning to pay for it, or let's make it on the level of the law. Because you can't lie so openly in Parliament's Parliamentary-President Republic, not even to your colleagues, it's not scary, we're used to it -- families of those who lost their loved ones on the front. Please support. There's no problem. There's nothing more here and there's no politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u176	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u177	Yes, the readjustment is rejected. It is this right that has already addressed the issue of payment to the families of the fallen military personnel. As far as I can see, it was settled on the committee in a different way, i.e. the accounting of the allowances processed by the working group, including the offices. That's why even a technical legal proposal is rejected in this formulation. As for the previous amendment, it was really settled in the previous law adopted by the Supreme Council, and on the basis of this and the implementation of the law, the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers were worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u178	Amendment No. 80, the national deputy of Razumkov suggests that it be taken into account, rejected by the committee, by the authorship of Razumkov, Mokan, and colleagues. Please vote. [[14:43:02]] For 134 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dmitri Alexanderovich, are you still counting? Here's the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u179	Thank you. Seventy-seven. Dear colleagues, many of you are on the front and communicating with our defenders. We've had a totally unfair story. By the time we were fully staffed, our protectors had received the credit card bill for years. That is to say, this bill provides for the restoration of the right of military personnel to pay for the service of service for years, when one month of service is counted as 3 months of service. In fact, when a full - scale war began with Russia on 24.02.2022, it was canceled. That is, those who took part in the ATO and the OOS were given a month in three. And now it's month after month. Colleagues, this is totally unfair! Let us correct this injustice and return it to our defenders with you. I want to listen to the committee's position that this time they're getting in the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u180	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u181	Thank you. The amendment was rejected because it also needed to change the laws governing it. I can't point out the detailed position of the committee, but I'm sure each member of the committee is willing to work with you, according to all the colleagues who care and submit in the next packet. However, this requires a number of legislative changes, not just this amendment that you have made.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u182	I bet the vote on the proposal by Dmitr Alexandrovich Razumcz to take into account his amendment number 78, his authorship and colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. Oh, no? 77, yeah. I'm sorry. 77, please. Please vote. [[14:45:19]] For-125 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dmitry Alexanderovich, huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u183	Yeah, 83 lashes. It's the same thing. See, now the committee representative tells us that everyone has a separate opinion. There shouldn't be any particular thought here, there should be a thought here about the Ukrainian army, about the defenders. I, you know, I want to talk to you, it might come out that the Council will end, and the war will continue, and each of you will go to the front and maybe that's how you wanted to get a month in three years of service. Let's treat everyone equally, not postponing. We've got a year and a half of war going on, and you're suggesting to me again, let's make another commission, commission. You don't have a conscience, Your Honor. Let us vote and return what we are obliged to do to our defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u184	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u185	Similarly. This amendment needs a number of legislative changes and we are ready to deal with it accordingly. Please don't manipulate me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u186	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal by Dmitr Alexandrovich Razumcz to take account of Amendment No. 83. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:46:57]] For-136 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dmitre Alexandrovich Razumkov, number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u187	Alexander Sergiyovich, here are four revisions. Give me three minutes for the show instead, then I'll put one in. 25, 64, 82 and 84.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u188	Please, three minutes, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we remember 48 revisions of the "Smart Politics" team. I am grateful to everyone in this room who voted for it, after which I voted in favour of the law, and to the representatives of the majority, the representatives of all the MPs who supported it. I will not now call those who have blocked, and this law is still in a suspended state and does not allow the State and Parliament to return fully to our defenders. But I remember a lot of cheers, including from a committee representative who reported today that there is no money for it, that it takes 300 billion, 170, 190, trillion. After the authorities realized that there were no other options and there was something to be done, there was a law in which they couldn't write anything more intelligent as "needing no extra budget expenses." We changed the Defense Minister because the previous one said it was the army who asked us to take 30 extra payments to our defenders. It will be the same for 15 million, for which you did not vote today, for one month in three, which you did not vote today, and many other things. Let's respect our army, let's respect our defenders. Let's not put the commission back on the committee. Let's not invent new revenge. Let's not look for politics where it's not there. Let us do what the army needs, as the U.S.S.S. needs, as the defense forces and all those who give their lives and health for the sake of our state with you. Dear colleagues, I have proposed with these rights, along with our colleagues from "Smart Politics" and I propose to secure all payments for our defenders and representatives, who are taking part in the defence and defence of our state at the level of law. We've changed the Secretary of Defense, and I hope that Umerov will be better suited to this process, and we won't hear from him that the army is asking them to take their wages, collect payments, pay, etc. And I very much hope that we will come to Parliament to perform one of the key functions -- control, control over what the government is doing in the state, and to follow the orders given to it by the electorate, by the Ukrainian society. Thank you. I understand you won't support it, so I won't even put them to the vote, but I'll have to answer for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u190	Thank you. All right, let's get to the vote, colleagues. Please prepare to take your seats. I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt a bill on registration number 9638 in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the social protection of military personnel, police officers and others. The proposal to accept in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Please vote. [[14:51:16]] For 283 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Motovlover's out of procedure. Motovlover's out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u191	Please put to the vote a change in the order of the day and proceed to the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors. Guys, we can see that we can't vote on any more bills, they can vote on them, and with the papers, let's move on to the members of the Court of Auditors, and we'll take a motion to cancel the Supreme Council decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u192	Vlasenko is out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u193	I'd just like to clarify the offer. So the proposition is that we're now moving into the accounting room.? Andrew Viktorovich Motovilovets, I would like to clarify the proposal. So now we're going to question the House of Accounts, and then the blocking orders under the Law of Lawfulness? If so, I have no further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u194	That is also how we understood this proposal. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u195	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, what can we go to if there is no candidate for office in the House of Auditors? Are we choosing an empty seat or candidates? Where are they? What questions do we want to turn to? Who should I choose? Or if you just want to fail, say, we want to fail, and everything, and then we don't fool people, we'll all just split up. Alexander Sergiyovich, right, or what is this about?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u196	Let's move on to the question, and that's where we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u197	No question. There are no people. There are no people, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u198	The head of the budget committee as a minimum is, I see her in front of me, so she can tell us the situation professionally with this competition and with the rest of the contests. So if there are no alternative proposals, I'm putting Andrija Viktorovich Motovilovich to the vote. Please vote. Do you have an alternative? Stop, stop, stop! Stop voting. An alternative proposal for European Solidarity, please. Out of procedure, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u199	We support the "Paternity" proposal as a whole, but we suggest that today also be voted as a minimum of two interim commissions of inquiry. I would like to remind you that Mr. Tsakal's Tsk remains illegal if there is no representative of European Solidarity. And we ask you to vote this, and this is now agreed upon by a majority. And the second. This is also the TSC, 9534, headed by Mrs. Krakhod, and where from our faction Alexi Honcharenko. We are ready to vote on these two TSCs without discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u200	Andry Viktorovich, is there no objection to adding these two TSCs to your proposal? This is TSC 9641 and TSC 9645. Shall we add to this proposal? Do you mind what? The procedure is Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u201	Wait, why can't the three TSCs we agreed on at Conciliation be set up?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u202	There's four of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u203	Why do we put your TSCs and Dubnov can't put them up?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u204	There's four of them. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're proposing to add another Dubnov, right? Okay. Then in order of coming now we will vote, we have three proposals. Yeah, no talking. We have three proposals now. Andrew Viktorovich Motovilovtsa’s first suggestion: simply move on to the question of the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors and further blocking orders. Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko’s second suggestion is to move on to two TSC rulings, their numbers 9641 and 9645, and continue to appoint members of the Accountant and the blocking orders. And Mrs. Ustinov's third suggestion: to add all the TSCs today, there are four: 9641, 9645, 9657, 9651, and to continue to appoint the members of the Accountant and the blocking orders. That's why we'll be in line. Do you have an offer, too? And Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov, please, the fourth sentence. Smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u205	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Another suggestion is that there may be a lack of votes, just close the session, and move on to other important functions of the national MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u206	Thank you for taking care of the presidency, since it is the decision that determines when the adjournment will take place. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Andrew Viktorovich Motovilovitsa's proposal. Please vote. [[14:56:45]] For 201 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on Irina Volodymyrovna Heratchenko's proposal. It's a Motovlover, plus two Tsk Krakhod and the Cabal. Please vote. [[14:57:15]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The proposal by Alexandra Jurijov Ustinov: all TSK plus Motovlover. Please vote. [[14:57:39]] For 178. The decision is not taken. Let's not put Dmitry Alexanderovich's proposal to a vote if there's no potential. Is there another offer? Please, Andrew Viktorovich. Are you in the rostrum or where? Do you have an offer? Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov is with procedure, please. Helen Kostvena, I'm handing you the lead.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to support you right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u208	Please listen carefully to the suggestion that we may have a result. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to listen to the offer, because we are now really counseling. The offer is very simple. Support what the Motovilovite suggested, but considering that two TSCs, one TSC, which Mrs. Krakhod, and one involvement of Mr. Ariev are now without discussion to vote. To begin with and then to move into the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u210	The accounting room and the blocking orders. Right? I'm going to make this offer, and I'm going to have to put it to a vote, please. Let's be clear, please. I've put you to a vote, please identify yourself. [[14:59:24]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Please, Mrs. Ustinova still has an offer. I think she'll be one of the last. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u211	Offer, I'm asking you to listen to the hall right now. We have a bill now, which is number ten, about our pilots. Let's vote on something normal for the army today. There's no discussion, and that's what our pilots, who die every day, you're probably reading it in your social media, asking a lot of questions, including the Juice, who died for us with you in the sky. Therefore, one of these bills is requested to vote today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u212	Ms. Alexander, please give me the bill number you're proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u213	9325.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u214	Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u215	9325. I beg you, there was no discussion to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u216	There's a discussion, Alexander Yuriyevna. Alexeiovich will be discussed so that everyone can understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u217	It won't work without discussion, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u218	He doesn't have a license there.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u219	Let me bet. There is an offer that Mrs. Ustinova has just made. Dear colleagues, let's all get a little tired, please. Please, Dmitri Razumkov. Dmitri Smartow, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u220	Thank you, Your Honor, Helen Costvina. Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, for keeping the Rules. But you just missed, and I also suggested that, in view of the fact that we do not see the necessary number of votes for further consideration, we close this session, more faithfully, announce a recess within the framework of the decision that was marked. Because so that we don't turn the work of the legislative body of the state into something that would cause misunderstanding among our constituents with you. And thank you to the First Deputy and Deputy for your effective work during these two days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u221	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u222	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I have to comment. I have a suspicion that according to the ruling that we're working on right now, the decision on recess is announced to the chairman and there's no point just putting such motions on the vote, they're going to have a psychological recommendation for the presidency. If there is such a need, we can certainly put it, but it seems to me that the presiding officers will be determined when the recess is announced in our beautiful session today. So we have a proposal from Alexander Uriev of Ustinov to go to Bill 9325 and then to Bill 9325, and then to the Orders and Orders. Right? Okay. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal by Alexandra Juryivna Ustinova. Please vote. [[15:02:24]] For 226 Yes. Thank you. 226, decision taken. So, second reading, we've already defined the procedure, we're going after it now. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address the Voice faction. Notice, colleagues, in a democratic camp, we always support your suggestions. It pains me, Mrs. Ustinova, that you have not voted again today in principle to have the commission of the Cabal, headed by your colleague, delegated Volodya Ariev there. I ask very much after voting on the pilots of the law, please put the next sentence to the vote. Mr. Arahami, Mr. Motovilovets, please with the "ministers of the people" let us support the following: we vote in favour of the pilots, then without discussion two TSKs (Tsk of the Tsabal, we delegate Mr. Ariev, an important Tsk of the Cruchour), without discussion, other TSKs are being transferred to the next meeting and we are going to the Chamber of Auditors. Please, we suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u224	"The Voice," there's a few. Thank you, we get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u225	We propose after voting under the Law now on the pilots, not yet discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u226	Yes, we heard your proposal, we'll put it after the 9325 vote. Now we have at least three lines, I've counted. One replica of the Voice party, the Voice faction, if she wants, the head of the faction. Mrs. Ustinova's personal identity is still Mr. Tsabball's. Please, Ustinanova, two minutes. Turn on Ustinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u227	Please, please, colleagues, vote for our pilots. They really need a bill. If you do not want them to sit in jail and be dragged into interrogations, you must now vote. Please don't leave the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u228	Please, Cabal Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u229	Colleagues, I support, that's what we just talked about. It's the only small point. Mrs. Irina, I just got off the phone with a special vote from the Voice faction for your proposal: 13 in favor, 1 in support. So when you say we didn't vote, we supported most factions of your proposal. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u230	Let's go to Bill 9325, second reading. Draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the regulation of effective legislation in part of the criminal responsibility for the commission of military criminal offences related to violations of the rules on the use, execution or preparation of war vehicles. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich Mamka. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to take the floor. Let's still vote on one bill, two decrees, and then who's going to have the procedure, so we don't turn it into a mess, we put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u232	Okay. Thank you. Are there any edits here? None. Let's get to the vote, all right. There is no such process. Do you have any papers, Sergey Konstantinovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u233	None. Vote. Colleagues, ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u234	Yeah, the committee's asking for backup. The proposal to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a bill under registration number 9325: amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the provisions of existing legislation in part of the criminal responsibility for the commission of military criminal offences related to violations of the rules on the use of military or special machinery, the execution of flights or the preparation of ships. Please vote. [[15:06:38]] For 249 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. I'm betting on the vote on Irina Volodymyrovna Heratschenko's proposal to move to two TSCs and then to the Accounting Chamber and the blocking orders. Please vote. [[15:07:06]] For 196 The decision is not taken. We're moving on to the matter of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u235	Discussing candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u236	Of course, all the discussion, Arthur Volodymyrovich, whatever you say, is over. So let's move on to the matter of the Court of Auditors. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with paragraph 16, part of the first article of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 20 of the Law of Ukraine on the Court of Auditors, article 208. 2 The Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints the Supreme Council to serve as members of the Court of Auditors. The Committee on Budget Affairs conducted a competition for four vacant seats for the members of the Court of Auditors. According to part four of article 20 of the Supreme Council Rules, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. In accordance with the Rules, the proposals of the profile committee are proposed the following order for consideration. A report from the Committee on Budget Affairs - up to 3 minutes; statements from MPs and groups - up to 16 minutes; speeches by national deputies - up to 4 minutes; e-vote by electronic system in alphabetical order in each candidate separately. Identifying four candidates with the highest number of votes. Decision-making by the list defined in the summary of the rating vote. In all, it's only a matter of 45 minutes. If there's no objection to such a beautiful one. [[Noise Nodes]] I'm betting on the voting procedure indicated above. Please vote. It's defined by the Rules, I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, yeah. 208 p.m. 2, open up, Arthur Volodymyrovich, please. Two eight, two, go ahead. And she doesn't vote. The procedure is Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u237	Mr. Chairman, you're manipulating and actually deceiving the voters of Ukraine. You say, of course, that this is the procedure laid down in the Rules. Yes, it's probably defined in the Rules, but you're manipulating others, and that's what Parliament is planning to do. In fact, you suggest that your colleagues leave this room and go on their other business, and you do not want these decisions to be approved. So I ask that this procedure, which you say is prescribed in the Rules, you put to the vote now. And if the Council decides to do so, we will follow this procedure, and if not, we will make another proposal on the procedure for considering this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u238	We follow the procedure set out in the Rules. Yes, as for your observation, Your Honorable Fellow John Orestovna, I am taking steps, in accordance with the Rules, for the presence of deputies in this room. And on another occasion, I remind you that the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors is a very important function of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I ask my colleagues to take responsibility for the next 45 minutes of their parliamentary life, to conduct it in a session hall or in other places where they consider it necessary. So let's move on to the question. The chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Rocsolán Andriyev Podlas, is invited to speak for the report. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u239	Thank you. Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, distinguished national deputies and colleagues! We had a hard time choosing the matter today at the meeting, but it was really important, according to the legislative requirements in connection with the increase in the composition of the Court of Auditors, which took place several years ago, from 9 to 13 members of the Court of Auditors, the Committee on Budget Affairs announced a vacancy in the Chambers of Auditors. Forty candidates were submitted to the committee. Two of them refused to participate in the competition. Thus, 38 candidates take part in the competition. The candidate materials were posted on the Supreme Council and the Committee on Budget Affairs at the same time. You can read all the candidatures online. The committee conducted interviews with candidates and obtained the results of a special examination of all candidates. The committee's decision with detailed information about the competition's actions has been given to you and is posted online. But we have the committee's decisions, in particular, firstly, the Committee on Budget Affairs approved the Committee's conclusions on each of the 38 candidates for vacant seats of the members of the Court of Auditors, as well as the guidelines for the Supreme Council's consideration of the matter. The other one. The Supreme Council was directed to a designated decision by the Committee, including the conclusions on candidates, without adding information on candidates as defined in Article 205 of the Supreme Council Rules, since copies of the relevant documents are available on the Supreme Council and the Committee’s websites. Thank you for your attention, dear colleagues. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u240	Thank you, Roxolano Andriyevno. But before the vote, we're going to have a fantastic 20 minutes. How are we gonna get them through? 16 minutes -- statements from factions and groups. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups, two minutes from the rostrum. Please. Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u241	Please pass the word to Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u242	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u243	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, this is really our responsibility, because we have to contribute to the more efficient work of the body, which is by no chance called the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I hope that now we will not waste time, but we will vote as quickly as possible. I want to talk to my colleagues, and we've done everything we can to make sure that their wishes are taken into account. Unfortunately, 226 wasn't enough. Please join everyone in the vote as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u244	Please, Sternichuk, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u245	Please pass the word to Frow Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u246	Paul Froll, please. Paul Valeriusovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, in November of 19th, you and I passed a law that increased the composition of the Court of Auditors from 9 to 13. In January of the 20th year, an appropriate competition was announced, less than two months later, the COVID pandemic began, two years later, a full-scale war. In these circumstances, was it appropriate to increase by four units the state of top managers of the higher public audit body? Would that lead to improved quality of the work of the chamber? The answer is definitely not. The practice of the world's top audit bodies shows that the increase in the number of members of the college body does not lead to an improvement in the results of their work, but rather in isolated cases where there are more members in Europe than there are now, based on the broader powers of these institutions and the performance of judicial functions. In February of this year, the Eurocommission published a report in Ukraine that noted the low quality of the audit work, the conduct of inspections, and not of audits, the minimal impact of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. In Europe, under the leadership of the previous head, we have only been integrated at the level of the salaries of the head and the members of the chamber. Therefore, our efforts to reform the Court of Auditors must now focus not on increasing the number of members, but on institutional independence, transparency, accountability, the ability to implement international auditing standards into the work of this body. To that end, in close cooperation with the state auditors of the world level, SIGMA experts, OECD experts, the best NGOs, we will complete the preparation of a new edition of the Accounting House Act. I'll sum it up. Despite the fact that there are really powerful professional candidates among the applicants, today we have no right to increase the number of members of the Court of Auditors, since these are additional.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u248	Please, Cabal Vladimir, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, today's new Defence Minister has openly said he'll be making proposals for an increase in the defence budget, because we need more than 200 billion by the end of the year. At that time, we see a great deal of abuse from the inefficient use of government funds. As the Supreme Council, we have a special body, which is actually our hand, which has a control function that has to control the efficient use of funds. Now it's very urgent to increase the capacity of this body, and that's what international partners tell us, that's what they told us at a meeting of the European Parliament's Joint Budget Committee and the Supreme Council, by the way, thank you, Roxolano Andriyevno, for being one of the few committees that started these meetings. We need to increase our ability accordingly -- that's what we're told there, and that's what we understand. Colleagues, I urge you all, let's accelerate this work by increasing your ability. I understand there are some old competitions, I think we really need to think in the new paradigm, the competitions over advertise and think about how to work so that our House of Auditors becomes the body that will allow us to make more efficient use of the funds, so that we can channel more funds into security and defence measures. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u250	Thank you. Please, Alexeiovich. Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please, "European Solidarity." Give me two minutes, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, with great respect to you, to your speakers, but please tell us cynically about your so-called mistake, about the increase in the number of members of the Court of Auditors from 9 to 13. And in fact, you were having a very useful moment at the time, the goal you were having at the time, is to blur out the voices that the Head of the Accountancy might have gotten for you, create conditions for him to influence the work of this body. I don't understand, you're talking about organ independence, you're doing everything right now to make another institution entirely dependent on you. It's just that there's no strength to term this cynical lie that you've been telling here all along, from this rostrum. All I agree with is that you don't even read the conclusions of the Accounting Chamber. I read every report, I write every chapter of the post, I ask them to explain what they meant. No law enforcement agency has responded in any way to the number, huge number of comments they make in their reports, because you don't give them a command, these law enforcement agencies. As soon as you give the fasca, the account room reports everyone will be held accountable. Stop lying, it's gone, literally all the institutions have broken down: the Antimonopoly Committee, the Holding Fund, have reached the Accounts Chamber. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u252	Thank you. Let us move on to the speeches made by the national deputies. Please sign up for the performance, in two minutes for the performance, just four minutes. Please, Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich, "Serve of the People". I've got a Lab.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u253	Yeah, yeah. Good afternoon, my friends! So the work of the Court of Auditors is now an important aspect for our state. Both today and in two days of Parliamentary work, we have already made many assignments, reloads, our international partners are also looking forward to the effective work of all our budgetary processes. I believe that the strengthening of the Court of Auditors' work today is another part of the transparency of Ukraine's budget and our international partners. Therefore, it is an important step today to identify, support, and move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u254	Please, European Solidarity, Alexeievich Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u255	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, you know, I wanted to talk about how today the Supreme Council just lost its subjectivity. Look, today we're making a decision to appoint a defense minister, a key decision, a key position. Where's the President? The President gave us a candidate, he didn't even find time to come to the Supreme Council to present his candidacy. It's just a basic respect for Parliament and for the voters who chose us here. Today we have chosen the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, which was submitted by the government. We don't even have a Prime Minister here anymore. All of it! In the past, when Trudo arrived, I don't know, Sanchez, prime ministers of other countries, came with respect. You don't have to do this anymore. That's enough! We're so uninterested that even I'm not interested in coming here anymore, but it's not the most interesting Prime Minister in the world, so to speak, but he doesn't even walk anymore. Well, it's totally disrespectful! They elected the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. Today, the Danish Prime Minister spoke here. Well, maybe someone will come here, the President, the Prime Minister. I won't! Even the speaker has left us, my friends! The Speaker of Parliament and he's gone, he's gone on a foreign mission, well, obviously, some people can. And then I don't understand, and what are we doing here? And now there are about 40 deputies in the session room. We're going to continue the discussion with you. The House of Accounts is a key issue. 40 deputies! And you know, if we don't respect ourselves. If we do not respect ourselves, who will respect us? We turned into a very bad amateur chorus of Veryovka, who sings songs and hymns when someone comes to us. Soon we'll be leaving the caravan, maybe someone will learn, "When Constanta" will learn how to make an adversarial, and that'll be our role with you. Guys, it's a shame! This is the Parliament of Ukraine, you have proved it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u256	The only thing I wouldn't disrespect is the tradition of singing an anthem in the Parliamentary Hall. I think it's important for the national MPs, and for the country, and all the guests who come here, they're very surprised and they respect it. There is no such thing now in any of the parliaments of the world, in fact, no parliament of the world and is no parliament of the warring country. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u257	I think the answer to what we're doing here should be given by the head of the Committee on Budgets of Rocksallin Podlas. Please give her your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u258	Please, Rocsolana Andrienne, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u259	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I think I'd like to move on to the vote. The question is, everyone has read the summary of our candidates, determined by their decision, we can vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u260	Thank you. Let's move on to the alphabetical voting in each candidate separately. What's not over? Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, well, if it's not over, one minute. From the place, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u261	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. Let's do it for justice. We are on the spot and are fulfilling our duties, the one who thinks he will vote today. About the President's absence today. To be honest, everyone knows that Mr. Blinken, Secretary of State of the United States, has come to the country. And the President of Ukraine was involved in these actions, so he could not be present for the defence minister. He was represented by his representative at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You don't have to speculate and pedal where it's not pedaling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u262	As for the Head of the Supreme Council, we have also seen from open sources that Ruslan Alexiyovich is at the G7 Speakers' Summit in Tokyo. And this is the first time in history that the speakers of the Supreme Council, he's been at these events for the second time, are participating in such high meetings. So, I think that's something to be respected too. Please, European Solidarity, Arthur Volodymyrovich Herasimov is one minute. Can I put some red on there, please? It's kind of an endless time.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u263	Dear colleagues, you know, I wanted to pay attention to two moments. First. I fully support what the colleagues said before from this rostrum. Because the way that most people disrespect themselves, it leads exactly to what is happening today that the President has not come today, that the Prime Minister has arrived today, that there are very often no government representatives when government bills are being passed. This is very common in many other situations. You don't have to talk about war. You don't have to. War isn't all over. He doesn't sleep. And second moment. Now you've just mentioned the war. And today there was a bill of 9638 on the social protection of the military. That's where they set the standard, not at Kabmin's level of determination, but at the level of the law, so that the payments to the families of the victims would be protected. My colleagues, do you know what I'd like to do to the majority, at least to the people who are in the room right now? Please read the bill that goes into the hall. Because when you're told that let's protect the death pay, let's do it at the level of the law, and you don't support it. I only have two things, two moments, to be exact.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u264	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. It's already red. So I'm going to call it a last name. I'm going to call it a name, a name, after my father's candidate for office, and you're going to be determined for his support. Let's start with the alphabet. Boyko Ruslan Volodymyrovich. Please vote. [[15:28:30.]] For-23 Raven Vitaly Volodymyrovich. The factions. Thank you. Raven Vitaly Alexanderovich. Please vote. [[15:28:56]] For-25 The factions. Viktoria Juryevna. [[15:29:20]] For-32 Show the factions, please. Thank you. It's Marguerite Leonidian. Please vote. [[15:29:43]] For-24 The factions. Gradil Andry Ivanovich. Please vote. [[15:30:04]] For-32 The factions. Gritsenko Oksana Ivanovna. Please vote. [[15:30:26]] For-23 The factions. Greenko Olena Alexiyevna. Please vote. [[15:30:49.]] For-25 The factions. Dmitrenko Hennady Vasilovich. Please vote. [[15:31:10]] For-24 Show the factions, please. Zamlinski Rostislav Theodosiowiovich. Please vote. It's the same Zamlinsky. [[15:31:33]] For-32 Show the factions, please. Ivanov Dmitry Valerijovich. Please vote. [[15:31:53]] For-24 Cancerak Viktor Vasilovich. Please vote. [[15:32:15]] For the 18th. Querecanin Natal Sergiyevna. Please vote. [[15:32:36]] For-21 Klimenko Kirilo Olegovich. Please vote. [[15:32:55]] For-23 The key of Sergey Sergiyyovich. Please vote. [[15:33:15.]] For-22. Screaming Aunt Volodymyrna. Please vote. [[15:33:34]] For-19 Quinn Irina Anatolyevna. Please vote. [[15:33:54]] For-26 Lemishovsky Vasil Ivanovich. Please vote. [[15:34:13]] For 20 Maziarczuk Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please vote. [[15:34:32]] For-43 He's got the highest chance yet. Mamishev Andry Valentinovich. Please vote. [[15:34:55]] For the 15th. We voted on half the list. Marco Vitaly Ivanovich. Please vote. [[15:35:16]] For-16 I think it's Olenna Alexandrovna. Please vote. [[15:35:35.]] For-22. No need for Natalia Petrovna. Please vote. [[15:35:54]] For-29 Sergey Ernestovich Island. Please vote. [[15:36:12]] For 20 How many Isles? Again. 20. Olinenicko Stepan Volodymyrovich. Please vote. [[15:36:52]] For-24 Gorelov Yuri Sergiyovich. Please vote. [[15:37:12]] For-19 It's Julia Hennadivena's. Please vote. [[15:37:32]] For-21 Radionov Yuri Denisovich. Please vote. [[15:37:51]] For-19 Skopje, Alexander Dmitrovic. Please vote. [[15:38:09]] For 20 Stavska Lydia Stanislavna Please vote. Lilia. [[15:38:28]] For-29 Svetlana Eugene's stratienco. Please vote. [[15:38:48]] For-22. Tolstanov Mikhailo Konstantinovich. Please vote. [[15:39:07]] For-51 Ugrin Ivan Bogdanovich. Please vote. [[15:39:27]] For-19 Christopher's Denis Igorovich. Please vote. [[15:39:46]] For-19 Chugunov Igor Yakovich. Please vote. [[15:40:04]] For-16 The Great Irina of Yuriyevna. Please vote. It's nice to have people back in the hall. [[15:40:24]] For-19 Chuprina Ludmila Mikolayevna. Please vote. [[15:40:45.]] For 20 Mary Jacob’s Skull Please vote. [[15:41:05]] For 20 And the final candidate is Jackov Mikhailo Volodymyrovich. Please vote. [[15:41:27]] For-44 The completion was added to the candidate. So we have four winners of this competition. We are now moving on to the final vote in the list. [[B in m in s a l in]] We checked in yesterday, Ivanno Orestovna. No, we register at the beginning of the session, Ivanno Orestovno. We've been through this before, let's not do it again. Yeah. Dear colleagues, we have three candidates who have obtained 51, 44 and 43 votes respectively, and three candidates who have won 32. We'll have to vote between them. We'll have to choose one. So who got 32. I bet you're Victoria Jury. Please vote. [[15:43:07]] For-26 Zamlinski Rostislav Theodosiowiovich. Please vote. [[15:43:26]] For-32 32 votes the same. A stable candidate. And Gradil Andry Ivanovich. Please vote. [[15:43:50]] For the 18th. Of these three, we went to the finale of Zamlinski Rostislav Theodozoiovich. So it's in line. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no candidate. Let's move on to the final vote with the list. In accordance with part five of article 208, paragraph 2, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, a list of four candidates who obtained the largest number of votes on the basis of the rating vote is put to the vote. We have the following candidates: Tolstanov Mikhailo Kostaninovich, Jackov Mikhailo Volodymyrovich, Maziarczuk Viktor Mikolaiovich and Zamlinski Rostislav Teodozoiovich. People's deputies, please vote. We need 226. To make this decision, I mean. It's for the winners already. [[15:44:48]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Pursuant to Article 208 pr. 2 The Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ask the Committee on Budget Issues to announce a re-election of the vacant seats of the members of the Court of Auditors. Thank you. And we have one more question of the day: ours is beautiful. Yes, please, Anton Yatzenko, from the procedure, then Pusharenko was with a replacement for the performance, and then we'll move on to the rulings. Please, Anton Volodymyrovich Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u265	Dear colleagues, right now we're looking at such a complete farce, and it's a complete disregard for both the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian Parliament. And by the way, Mrs. Ustinanova was saying that even those people who were filling out documents were working there to really want to work in the Court of Auditors. And today we're seeing, when they deliberately left the hall, there's 40 or 50 people in the hall, and that's not the first time that Parliamentarianism has been levelled, just as they didn't announce the demands of the people's deputies. And in general, the role of the Court of Auditors, which in all the countries of the world of civilization is this tool of parliamentary control, and we just have the majority of it done. And so it's very sad that this is how we show the total destruction of parliamentaryism in a war-torn country. Thank you for your attention. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u266	Thank you for the presentation, he was off the hook, Mr. Anton. Please, Arsenius Pusherenko. Break with a replacement for the performance, two factions: SN and Platform for Life and Peace. [[B in m in s a l in]] "Serve of the people" and "Platform for Life and Peace." No, there was "Trust" and "Resurrection."".. It's all written down. Please, Arseny Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u267	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! August seemed very productive in the international arena for our nation, and we remember the fact that the breakthrough to the Global South took place in Jeddah, where over 40 security and international advisers, political advisers, leaders of over 40 countries gathered for a consultation on support for the implementation of the Peace formula proposed by President Volodymyr Greene last year at the G7 summit. And this is really a historic event, because what happened in Saudi Arabia is really a fundamental result for our nation. Next. A powerful presidential visit to northern European countries and productive negotiations in Sweden to produce joint armored cars that are very useful for our military, as well as data from the Netherlands, where we have seen 61 F-16, on which our pilots are already learning. Today, the Prime Minister of Denmark confirmed and confirmed that Denmark and the Netherlands are handing us F-16s, and the pilots are already learning, and the staff are preparing to use them to bring our victory closer. It is worth noting that the meeting in Athens and the Athens Declaration is in fact a new agenda for Ukraine's relations with the Balkans. Historically, Russia has had a significant impact, as in the countries of the Global South, on the countries of the Balkans. But what happened in Athens, President Zelensky's personal meeting with the leaders of these countries, of course, is important because the Athens Declaration stated that all countries, including Serbia, support sovereignty, the territorial integrity of Ukraine within the 1991 border. I would like to pay particular attention to President Zelenski's bilateral meeting with President Vouchic, and Serbia has confirmed that it supports Ukraine's territorial integrity. And this is important because the influence on Serbia in Russia has historically been and unfortunately remains significant. It's also a two-way street. A memorandum, a declaration with Greece, and this is the 23rd member country of the Alliance that supports our speech to NATO, and this is important. Today, more than 70 countries have joined in supporting President Vladimir Zelensky's peace formula, and this is a powerful work today, both by the President himself, and by the Office of President Andrew Jermak, and, of course, by our Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And of course, as a parliament in inter-parliamentary cooperation, we are also actively promoting today the formula for the peace of President Vladimir Zelensky. We're expecting the UN General Assembly, we're expecting a major foreign minister tour to South America, because it's an external political priority halfway across our country, and of course we're expecting a global peace summit based on President Vladimir Zelensky's formula. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u268	Heroic glory! Let us move on to the following questions of the order of the day. We've got it. What procedure? Nestor Ivanovich Šufrić is a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u269	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I would like to address you sincerely during our consideration of the decisions that we will consider, the word to the authors and to determine by vote without discussion. Please, and I urge you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u270	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. That's about the way it's going to be. So the Decree on the registration number 5707-P on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of 24.08.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Ukrainian Law on Legal Activities (registration number 5707 of 25.06). Please, by the authors of Mazurash, Georgiyyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u271	George Mazurashu, "Slut of the People" faction, 203th District, Cherniewec Region. In general, I even supported the legislative initiative by signing this out of respect for the author of Ruslan Stefanchuk, who was then also a vice-speaker. But some standards that have been followed for second reading, I personally find them unacceptable. Although I registered this decision only because, in the second reading, it was somehow not possible for a colleague from another faction to place on the confirmation one of the rights she considered critical. And I don't think you can break the Rules like that. So I registered this decree. I realize that there are no voices in the room right now even theoretically to support these blocking decisions, so I'm going to use the rest of the time for the current military theme. Although it is very difficult, especially difficult for me to talk today about military matters, because my closest friend, who has been on the front since 2016, has reported that our sports brother Vitaly Marchuk died in the struggle for independence in Ukraine. Compassion for family and loved ones, of course, is also the Kingdom of Heaven as a hero. I don't know what the circumstances are, but from what I hear from my other friends on the front, we've unfortunately had a lot of losses due to inadequate, misunderstood decisions and military leadership teams. And I always say that there's a lot of respect and gratitude for everyone who's stood up for the country. Praise be to all the simple soldiers and disgrace to those who sacrifice themselves simply as the flesh of our protectors. That's not supposed to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u272	Please sign up for the discussion: two for, two for the opposite. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's see if someone wants to talk. Then let's go to the vote, colleagues. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 24.08.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law on the Rightful Activity (registration number 5707 of 25.06.2021). Order number 5707-P. Please vote. [[15:53:31]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. It's a non-adopted decision. Next, 5707-P1. I offer no discussion. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 24.08.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Ukrainian Law on Right-wing Activities (registration number 5707 of 25.06.2021). Registration number of this Order 5707-P1. I suggest we take it in general. Please vote. [[15:54:14]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Next Orders 5707-P2, same without discussion. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 24.08.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Ukrainian Law on Right-wing Activities (registration number 5707 of 25.06.2021). I suggest we take it in general. Please vote. [[15:54:49]] For-9 The decision is not taken. It's a non-adopted decision. 5707-P3, here with the authors. Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 24.08.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Law on Lawmaking (number 5707 of 25.06.2021). Please, Hotcharyenko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u273	Thank you. Guys, I'm paying attention. To be honest, I'm ashamed of myself in front of those Ukrainian citizens who might see this at night, there are 20 to 30 MPs in this room, that it was incomprehensible why Parliament should be so disgraced, I don't understand. But now I want to talk about something else. We're looking at the blocking decree that I registered on August 24th. And Mr. Tsabball's blocking decree, which has blocked the payment of 30,000 dollars to everyone: DSNS, the police, the backseats, Nazgwardiya, the DSS, the DST, to all military personnel who were registered in April this year, we're not looking at it for nearly six months. In fact, a simple mechanism is created, how you can block and destroy any adopted law. And twice as shameful as it is with our defenders. The 'thirty' promised, President Zelensky said publicly: 'thirty' will be until the end of the war. The war is not over, the '30s' is over. The Supreme Council voted. What? And nothing. And so this law is blocked, people don't get money. Moreover, over the past few months, our law, which we have passed, has entered into force on June 30, which provides for the payment of timers, trainees, who are limitedly fit after the injury inflicted on outside the state, instructors. So far, none of them have received a single copy. None. Because our government has done nothing. What our government is busy with, I don't know. But bureaucratic procedures are still in progress. What's more, Nazgardi's combat payments, the DPSU's for June and July, and the BSS, are not received either. Tens of thousands of people who protect us every day, we wiped their feet. Yes, we are pressing, we will surely get it, we will not let our heroes get away. But can you do that? If they worked as hard as we did and our government, countries would.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u274	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose a motion for a vote to be adopted as a whole (with registration number 5707-P3) on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 24.08.2023 on the adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the draft Law on Lawmaking (number 5707 of 25.06.2021). Please vote. [[15:57:48]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 5707-P4. Here's a statement from the authors. Project Cancelion Order. [[B in m in s a l in]] And discussion. Okay. On the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 24 August 2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Ukrainian Law on Lawmaking (registration number 5707 of 25.06.2021). Please, by the authors of Ivan Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u275	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I'm sorry that you have to observe this absolute manipulation and farce in this room right now. It is obvious that even to present a decision and its essence is not before anyone, since there are no ones who can vote for it. Although I believe that this bill, which was voted in the Hall, is more like a doctoral case than a bill that will actually be used to improve the legal procedure, the legal procedure that we have here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I want to take this opportunity and talk about something else. I want to say that Parliament is being humiliated in very different ways, and today Parliament is being forced to follow Banking's directive not to release parliamentarians, even on business trips abroad. We are like parliamentarians who are able to do our work in a good way in behalf of the State of Ukraine, who can convince our partners of the need for further support from Ukraine, who are forced to give up their involvement in serious international action because of the vast majority of freaks who decided to go to either Bulgaria or Maldives or Thailand. And so today, the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided that it is the law that can prohibit, sorry, unlawfully going to work to protect Ukraine's national interests abroad. This is a great shame, and this is another drop that is gaining the remainder of parliamentaryism in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u276	Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Honcharenko Alexeiyyovich, European Solidarity. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u277	Dear Ukrainians! I remember, during the election campaign of 2019, the People's Servant party, going to the elections, told me very carefully that there can't be an empty room in Parliament, that there should always be a full room here, and all the questions have to be voted on. I'm reporting, and now, if the operators show, without covering, there are currently 39 national deputies out of 423, if I'm not mistaken, standing at the moment. There's only one faction manager out of eight in the room, and that's the opposition, that's not the monotony. There are four committee heads in the hall, only. That's how. of 27th Just, colleagues, if you say anything during the elections, keep your promises, not lie to people. As for the decision, he asked her to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u278	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u279	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, let's speak frankly, the relevant draft regulations, they carry more, of course, every right of the author to make this decision, but every national MP has the ability to determine how he will or will not support it. Some of our colleagues responded by leaving the hall. With regard to voting during potential candidates for office as a member of the Court of Auditors, honourable colleagues should probably have respect for us, too, the candidates should have come. We haven't seen them. We didn't see them, but we voted for them. So don't complain, because, as in that case, we're going to come out on our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-09-06-m0.u280	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I would like to propose a motion for a vote to be adopted as a whole by Decree No. 5707-P4 on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 24 August 2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Ukrainian Law on Legal Action (registration No. 5707 of 25.062021). Please vote. [[16:03:17]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Next order 5707-P5. We can move without talking. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 24.08.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Law on Lawmaking (number 5707 of 25.06.2021). I'll bet you I'll take it from the bottom. Please vote. [[16:03:53]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Order number 5707-P6. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 24.08.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Law on Lawmaking (number 5707 of 25.06.2021). I suggest we take it in general. Please vote. [[16:04:26]] For -6 The decision is not taken. And the order for registration number 5707-P7. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 24.08.2023 on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Ukrainian Law on Right-wing Activities (registration number 5707 of 25.06.2021). I suggest we take it in general. Please vote. [[16:05:00]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, the day - to - day consideration of matters of order has been completed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I'm calling a recess at our plenary meeting. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation in advance. I remind you of the need for non-proliferation of information about its beginning. We continue to work to win. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you, colleagues.
