ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u1	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, according to the ruling we have adopted, "On certain matters of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the ninth session in the context of the state of war" today we continue our plenary session. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the rulings adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all those present at the plenary session should not disseminate information about its beginning, its passage and the decisions taken in Parliament earlier than an hour after the announcement of the adjournment of the plenary session. I ask all colleagues to respect the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our State. In the event of air anxiety, there will be a suspension of the plenary session. We all have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme that is located in the workplace of each of you. Dear colleagues, according to Parliamentary tradition, I propose to begin the work of the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear colleagues, it is the 411th day of Ukraine's determined resistance to widespread criminal aggression by the Russian Federation. The invaders continue to engage in rocket and air strikes, and they carry out artillery shells at the peaceful cities of our nation. For such severe and irreparable losses to our nation, families and loved ones, all those involved in crimes against Ukraine will be found and held accountable. I propose to honor the moment of silence of the memory of all the fallen in the fights for Ukraine and all the peaceful citizens who died from the thefts of the Russian terrorist state. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, we have, you know, a pleasant event: padding in our ranks. But technically, we're not ready, so let's move on to the factions and groups, and then, then, we'll do the New People's Deputy. So, colleagues, please sign up for statements, announcements, statements, messages, proposals from MP factions and groups, for three minutes, we agreed on the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues, before we begin, I would like to inform you that on 6 April this year, the Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania unanimously adopted the resolution that called on NATO member countries to make a historic and fair decision in the future of the Vilnius Summit regarding our country's invitation to membership in the Alliance. I want us to now applaud our Lithuanian brothers and sisters for their responsible leadership position. [[Applause]] Lithuania is one of our closest fraternal countries, and we know that it will always be the first of such initiatives. Today you will be offered an invitation from our Parliament to NATO member countries to accept a similar Lithuanian address, which we will ask for support. So we have "European Solidarity." Please, who's it going to be? Sophia Fedina? No, it's not. Peter Alexiovich. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! I don't think I'm going to reveal the big secret that now every Ukrainian and entire country lives in anticipation of a big counterattack. We are not talking about a date, we are not talking about a direction, but all the hopes of the Ukrainian people are related. But waiting and stinging is not enough; it is necessary for anyone who can do the best possible to increase the effectiveness of the Armed Forces, and for every civilian to do everything in his power to achieve that goal. For about a year, however, our team is busy, but the army needs not only attention but also respect. She needs more than just a weapon, not just to secure a reliable rear, to guarantee a reliable and social package that the military deserved more than anyone. Today the Passionous Week has begun, and we must satisfy all our passions. But for the sake of the army, if necessary, we will insist on the implementation of the proposals of European Solidarity. We've put in a bill that provides for the allocation of state budget funds from the already fast-growing big marathon, where journalists can love Ukraine only for taxpayers' money, only for Ukrainian soldiers' money. We demand that a large portion be passed on to the Armed Forces. These include paying back 30,000 dollars as a minimum for medical, logistical, and other units involved in combat. We have a life - and - health risk at the frontline today, and unfortunately, they are not covered by any payments. It is also absolutely unacceptable to reduce the scope of rights and freedoms that directly contradicts article 22 of the Constitution, which establishes that when new laws are adopted or introduced into force, changes and the scope of existing rights and freedoms are not allowed. I demand that the initiators reduce the benefits, including those involved in fighting, take my words and suggestions and eat them. And another very painful one. Families of the dead should receive the full range and immediate legal assistance. We and the MPs from the People's Servant have made a bid of 3 billion immediately to implement and pay off this money. And another position. We demand the release of the call for responsibility of Bakanov. I'm sure after Naumov and Kiriluk he should be on the bench of the defendants.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u3	Thank you, Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko. Heroic glory! Please, Shufrich Nestor. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u4	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear Ukrainian people! The Ukrainian Parliament is faced with two main tasks. The first task is, of course, victory in war, and I'm sure it'll be close. And the second equally important task is how we will see Ukraine after the war. And we need to prepare for this, and this is a very serious and important task, taking into account the dangers and challenges facing us today. I'm not talking about the demographic situation right now, I'm not talking about the fact that more than 10 million Ukrainians are abroad today, and they're going to have to be returned. What I'm saying is that the main task is our children and our young people, they need to be given special attention today in order for the country to fully ensure the care and education of our Ukrainian children. And another very important task is veterans. You know, I've been studying the experience of the United States of America, the Department of Veterans. Yes, Ukraine cannot afford a ministry of over 400,000 employees today. Ukraine cannot afford a budget today such as that of the United States Department of Veterinary Affairs, the second since the Pentagon budget. But we need to take care of our veterans and fighters today. It's time to prepare the footage, and it's necessary for the Ministry of Education to provide this program. We need to adjust these state institutions today, such as the employment centers and others that would work for veterans. We need to provide for the psychological, social, medical adaptation of our veterans today. And the kids. You know, this week I was at the Banchen Monastery. I would very much like each of the national deputies to be there. This is a powerful example of social attitudes toward children. Bishop Longin has adopted more than 400 children today, half of whom are children with disabilities, and the separate separation is for children with AIDS. I mean, the person who is today. By the way, since the beginning of the war, he has accepted some 10,000 Ukrainians as refugees. That is, a person who today shows how to unite is able to consolidate society so that public organizations and public institutions and religions can work on a single task. The Ukrainian people, he's the only one, we have to work together to solve our problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u5	Please, Party for the Future, Shorty Anna Constantinena. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I want to raise the very important question that we have for today is the children on the front. I know it's very often discussed in a culinary way, but they're afraid to talk about it in public. At 5: 12 a.m., we lost 450 children. Today, there are 23 children in Bahmut, 11 children in Maximitka, 5 children in New Ukraine, 4 children in God’s sight. And this list can go on and on. You know, I've literally recently come back from the front line, and I was shocked when there's no one in the village where there's no one else, there's a house where three young children live, where artillery is constantly pouring and it's completely impossible to live normally. And these children are in these conditions. And there's a lot of kids in these conditions. And, you know, our inaction can lead to worse consequences than the fear of breaking international conventions. We have a legislative level to ensure the safety of children on the front line. I realize that the issue of human and child rights violations is constantly being raised. But is it not a violation of the rights of children to be held under constant fire? Can parents who expose their children to the danger of death be considered safe? Do we not violate the principle that a child should be under special protection? It should be given all the opportunities and conditions for physical, mental, and social development. But what kind of development can we talk about if children on the front are faced with the issue of normal survival? And, you know, we can lose children here not only physically, but also as part of the public, because after the shootings, after what conditions they're in, they'll become a question of their mental state. I realize that my parents are Russian-doves, and I've come across this in person when I've just been talking to this family. But we have as statesmen, we have at the legislative level to consolidate and resolve the issue of forced evacuation of those families, and if the parents refuse, the children on the front line. Because here is the question of life and the life of our children's future, for which our warriors give their lives, the best of our warriors. That's why I think we need to address this issue urgently at the legislative level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u7	Thank you. Voice, Bobrowski. Pippa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u8	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Were Sunday with Easter to those who celebrated. Most of Ukraine went into the Eerie Week, and I will say that I am a practicing Christian, not since I became a deputy, but since my parents baptized me and when I deliberately accepted the first Communion. So in a hot week you have to do complicated things, and finally you have to help our country be more at peace inside. We, the national electorate we have chosen, have to take on a challenge and put a dot on an organization that works like cancer in Ukraine. And look at the statute: this is an organization run by an aggressor country from Moscow that kills our civilians and our military. I say, unfortunately, I'm not heard by many in this room right now because I think it's an irrelevant question that will not touch you. It will touch everyone. For there to be no such thing as a so - called priest beating a soldier who protects each of you, we must take on political responsibility and lead the Ephesian organization out of the country. For this purpose, there are four bills in this room: Inni Sowsun, Savichuk Oksani, Government Bill 8371, 8221. And Bill 8662, which facilitates the transition to the Orthodox Church of Ukraine. This bill is legal on the simplification of form. I urge him to put it in the agenda immediately and on this Passionous Week take a challenge and make a decision that can now be unpopular because of someone. I'm going to mention Decree 9179, which I'm the author of, and there's a lot in the co-authors' room, and I'm going to remind you that all the bills and this decree have already been passed by the humanitarian committee, and I'm going to translate it into the first. I'm here to see you in the hall. We really need to go through purgatory by Easter as our U.S.S.A. goes through. And no one says to close any church in Ukraine. We have to say good-bye to the FSB organization, which is run by Moscow, which holds collaborators in its walls and protects them, especially the monasteries, including the Korean Women's Monastery near the Plain, which is directly subordinated to Moscow. Colleagues, you're not going to get away with this decision, so take responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u9	Thank you. Bacunec, please, Pavel Andryovich, "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u10	Dear Ukrainians, dear advocates and protectors, we respectfully thank you for your courage, that we can all go to this special week in the lives of different religions: for someone it's the Light Week after the Passover, for someone it's the Eerie Week before Easter. This is a week of great responsibility and challenge for all religions. And so it will be very symbolic, when we, as Ukraine, an independent state, a democratic state, which, even in times of war, actually draws attention to the opinion of society, listen to it, because the question of society to destroy an agency's Kremlin network in the form of a religious organization like a non-Moscian patriarch was clearly from the first days of the war. And we can clearly say that both the President's Office, and the PNB, and the SBJ, have taken appropriate steps to request a society: sanctions have been accepted, searches have been carried out. The world has seen the shameful facts, namely, of this agency’s network in the form of a religious organization. Local self - government also responds to a social request, for they rent out the areas used by these religious organizations. The very society, the communities are making, initiating the transition to the Orthodox Church of Ukraine of various parishes, only the Ukrainian Parliament has been silent for a month in a row. So today, this special week, from this high rostrum, I urge Parliament to consider at least any of the bills that are registered on this subject. There is a bill 8221, a parliamentary bill, is a government bill, there is, in principle, even a decree to start the same process regarding the religious sanctuary of Pochaiiv Laur, but a silencer. Therefore, I believe that in these special days, Parliament will find its strength, the opportunity to start this process at the legislative level, to ban this religious agency network, and thus to clear the heads of Ukrainians of misrepresentation. Thank you, our Armed Forces of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u11	The hero of glory, Paul Andriyovich. Fatherland, Julia Volodymyr, please. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, I think there is no man in this room who lovingly treats our heroes, our warlords, and that begins every day, out of gratitude, and that ends. I want to ask how this is addressed by Bill 5344 (d) on the removal of essentially all benefits, all rights of people with disabilities in Ukraine, and by any chance they are deleted from the right to make decisions in government, in parliament, at all levels of power on matters that concern their lives. I don't know where the cynicism is to take all the benefits away from people with disabilities at this time when our soldiers are returning home with such severe injuries. What are they taking? Let's figure it out. The first is to take away the barrierless space guaranteed by the State. Second, if 80 percent of the people in the company meet with disabilities, they all take the benefits. And they're depriving businesses of the law. A certain number of people with disabilities are obliged to work in an orderly manner. They are also prohibited from making decisions in public authorities on issues related to people with disabilities. Dear friends, at the Social Committee meeting this bill 5344-d since we rejected it with you has been discussed once again. No changes have been made. People came to the Social Committee meeting, came online and said that if this law was passed, people in wheelchairs would come to Parliament. That's what we wanted, isn't it? Dear friends, after such a decision by the committee, I have gathered at Zoom almost 100 associations of people with disabilities, including our military, and they are indignant. And I'm asking you, right now we're in the middle of a day's work for these three days, and we've made this bill of battle. I'm asking you not to allow this bill 5344-d in the order of day anymore, because our heroes, our war heroes, our wounded, people with disabilities, not take away everything they have. That's why it's against 5344 with the entire parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u13	Thank you, Julia Volodymyr. "Serve of the people," Yegor Cherniev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u14	Dear friends, dear colleagues, today is the 411th day of our liberation war, the Russian-Ukrainian war against the aggressor. I think a year ago when we were going to vote ours here at seven o'clock in the morning. about our future actually, about our opposition, we didn't even think it would last that long. But it is important to remember that if there are no tanks under Kiev, the fighting is now going east and south of our country. It's very important not to forget that war is going on and, you know, don't treat it like a normal thing, because we see a lot of videos of Russians dying, but we forget that ours are dead, and we lose a lot of people every day. And in order to push our victory closer, we need to be the only one, and we need to help our army every day. I'm asking you very much, and I'm asking you to take charge teams for yourself, help them with what they need, some of you have connections abroad, some of you can squeeze weapons, some of you can squeeze inside the country under some kind of security. It's important, especially before we have a counterattack, and it's not too soon. We need to be ready, we need to understand that this is the most difficult stage of our war, it's ahead. For our part, we do our utmost to have our partners speed up in the supply of weapons to us. But it's bureaucracy, unfortunately. We're trying to prove to them that after us, if we don't hold back, you and your soldiers will be. And we can end it. We have to be one and push from all sides. And that's not just words. We don't have much time. I'm asking you to mobilize, mobilize inside the country and mobilize on the international scene to do our utmost to help us. And we're definitely going to win together. And our counterattack will be definitely successful. But at what cost, it depends on you and the size of our brigades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u15	Thank you, Yegor Chernev. Please welcome the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Elena Kostvena Kondratuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, on these April days 77 years ago the League of Nations held its last meeting in Geneva. This organization, which was created after World War I to protect the world from new wars, failed to do its job. In 1946 the League of Nations dissolved itself and took its place as the United Nations. History is said to go around, and some decisions only speed things up. In 1939, the League of Nations expelled the aggressor state of the Soviet Union from its ranks for attacking Finland. In 2023 the United Nations allowed the aggressor state of Russia to head its highest body, the Security Council. This is a violation of the fundamental idea of the United Nations itself — peace and prosperity based on mutual respect. International leaders are talking about the horror of UN suicide, because Russia, led by Radbez, is the judgment of the United Nations itself as it now exists. However, I hope that this time the world’s leaders will find the strength to reform the United Nations and to bring the organization back into line with the constructive task it should perform in the Security Council. A good example of this is the reaction of the leading countries to the Russian propaganda Sabbath held at the Radbeg meeting when a war criminal, the so - called representative of the Russian Federation President of the Rights of the Child, took place. 49 countries and the European Union condemned the holding of such a meeting, and a permanent member of the United Kingdom’s Radbeg boycotted the meeting and blocked the broadcast. According to the National portal "Children of Ukraine." "Children of War" as of today, Russia has forcibly deported 19 thousand 349 Ukrainian children. Just like last year, when the parliaments of the world, according to our recommendations, recognized the aggressor country of the Russian Federation as a terrorist, we also now have to get the approval of special decrees in all European Union and world parliaments. I am pleased to report that the relevant resolutions have already been made by the Polish Senate and the Slovak Parliament, where I was on a work visit. And the United Nations Human Rights Council was also condemned. Our joint mission now is to bring back every child. This is our greatest task now facing all responsible leaders, including the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u17	Thank you, Olena Kostvena. Dear colleagues, the time for speeches is exhausted. I propose to proceed to the formation of an oath by a national MP. On March 29, 2023, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected to Ukraine's national election on July 21, 2019 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency of Nikorak Irina Petrovna, which was included in the electoral list of the political party "European Solidarity". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Nicorak Irina Petrovna, is invited. Please, Irina Petrovna. Dear colleagues, may I have a second of silence? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u18	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u19	Welcome, Irina Petrovna. We wish you fruitful work for the benefit of our nation. Please take your seat in the hall. Welcome to the European Solidarity faction. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a signal vote is proposed prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. I remind you, it's necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, i.e. before the results appear on the board. Please take part in the signal vote. [[12:38:10]] For 259. For -259, against -7. A signal vote has been taken. Dear colleagues, once again, I urge you to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council without spreading information about the course of the plenary session that has been decided in Parliament before an hour after the completion of our work. Dear colleagues, a list of issues that were previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, you have been given, and we are moving on to its consideration. The draft Decree 9192 on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the member States of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the NATO Parliamentary Assembly on Ukraine's membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, is being considered. I suggest you include this in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[12:39:28]] For 304 Decision taken. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:39:49]] For 266 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u20	The First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Kornienko, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, I will try briefly as one of the co-authors of this appeal. It's very simple. I'm going to read it as a result. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on the member States of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to continue to support open-door policies, responding to the challenges of today. We call on the member states of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, to support Ukraine's need for NATO membership based on today's extraordinary circumstances. We call on the parliaments of NATO member states to adopt the relevant decisions by reaffirming their leading role in supporting Ukraine's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Contact the governments with which Ukraine has launched the relevant negotiating process with proposals for the approval of declarations, applications for support for Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic aspirations. Demonstrate leadership in the implementation of the decisions of the 2008 Bucharest NATO Summit on Ukrainian membership. To facilitate approval during the spring session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Luxembourg of important decisions aimed at bringing Ukraine closer to future NATO membership by approving an appropriate declaration of support for Ukraine. Call on the governments of their countries to support Ukraine's application for NATO membership and start planning the process of Ukraine's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Prior to the Vilnius Summit, NATO will contribute to the formation of a joint vision of modality and a time frame for Ukraine's NATO accession in the member states of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Authorize the governments of their countries to take all measures to convene a meeting of the "Ukraine-NATO" commission at the level of leaders, with the participation of President Vladimir Zelenski of Ukraine. I am sure that Ukraine's path and the security of Ukraine and the entire European continent is only in the introduction of Ukraine to NATO. So let's support this decision and let's ask Parliament for concrete action from our partners in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u22	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Sorry I'm late. Let's go over, please, network Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, a few words from the committee. Then we discuss and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, as you know, there will be a NATO summit in Vilnius in July this year. This is an extremely important event. We know that the only real guarantee of security in today's world is NATO membership, and we want to become a member of this organization as soon as possible. At today’s meeting, the Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation Committee reviewed and supported the project. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u24	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to register: two in favour, two in opposition to discussing the draft of this decision. Factions and groups please log in. Please give the floor to the national deputy of Tchaikovsky's Ivan Adamovich, the MP's Party for the Future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u26	Please, Igor Gus.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u27	Dear friends! Igor Goose, MP for the Future. It seems to me that this hall is more united than ever in our desire to support Ukraine, to support our military, to support the entire Ukrainian people in their desire to join the North Atlantic Union. It seems to me that our Western friends should understand that not only are we not all together as parliament, government, president, local self-government bodies, but the entire Ukrainian people are strongly in favour of Ukraine's accession to NATO, we are preparing to do so. We actually have an army today, probably the most viable, possibly among all NATO countries. So we clearly sent from this hall, from free Kiev to all NATO countries: we want to be full-fledged, full-fledged members of the North Atlantic Union. And we will be worthy partners, and we will be worthy of friends who will not just be members of this organization -- who will protect NATO, protect their eastern borders from these monsters from the east. And that is clearly understood by Bulgarians, Romanians, Moldovans, Czechs, Slovaks, and the Baltic and Polish countries. So Ukraine is definitely NATO. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u28	Heroim Slava! Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u30	Please, Samantha Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u31	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. If anyone does not know, a NATO summit will be held in Vilnius in early July. Why is he so important to us and so critical to us? Because since the Bucharest summit, we have heard one standard, classic open - door thesis on open - door politics. What does that mean? This means that behind these doors a decision was actually taken on allowing a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in exchange for NATO not expanding its borders. But it wasn't what it was supposed to be. The Moscals have gone, and today the only side, the only coalition of countries that can act as guarantors for Ukraine in a secure way, can only be the North Atlantic Alliance. We welcome, and we sincerely welcome, Finland with its historic decision to join the Nazi family. And we want to believe, and we're going to believe, and we're going to go to this point where Ukraine becomes the 32nd or 33rd member of the North Atlantic Alliance. And in addition to the 1,200 kilometers of the Finnish border with the Russians, we will also provide protection for Europe, plus another 3,300 kilometers of security for our great European family. It is critical for us to hear at this summit not only the conditions for the introduction that Ukraine has to implement in the same way as it does at the European third, but also to meet at the highest level of the Ukrainian Commission – NATO at the level of Heads of State. And for all those who work with Hungary today, a huge request, and not only with Hungary, but also with our friends who often smile in our faces, but behind our backs do their things, with the French, actively work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u32	Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, faction of European Solidarity. Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, see how far Ukraine has gone in the last nine years. At the end of 2013, 16 per cent of Ukrainians supported Ukraine's NATO membership, now more than 90. He said and said now that Ukraine's NATO membership is the only possible guarantee of future lasting peace in Ukraine and security on the continent. I want to ask, after the Ukrainians have demonstrated such support, after the Supreme Council has supported my appeal, after making appropriate changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, I want to address our partner countries of the Euro-Atlantic Alliance with two appeals. Call one: don't believe Putin! No guarantees from Russia can protect Europe. Europe is now protected only by Ukraine. And secondly, do not be afraid of Putin! We cannot give anyone the veto of the 40 million people of Ukraine who want to become a NATO member. This is a strategic task, and we need to correct the mistakes of 2008 when everyone is carefully talking about the open door, keeping this door closed for Ukraine because they're afraid of scaring Putin. Vilnius is this very place where the door has to be opened. The Vilnius summit is to become a historic one, and the decision of the Vilnius Summit must be that we, NATO countries, invite Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. That's exactly what's going to happen, and we're going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the National Deputy Pavlovka Yuri Alexiyovich, the MP's "Platform for Life and Peace". Dear colleagues, and after that, we are moving on to the vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Please, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u35	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, the Ukrainian people! We clearly support the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the member States of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly on Ukraine's membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. I am convinced that these 411 days of fighting against the armed aggression of the Russian enemy have clearly identified who is a friend, who is an enemy, who is a trusted partner. And clearly in the interests of the Ukrainian State, in the interests of the Ukrainian people, the security of our nation is the full membership of our state in the North Atlantic Alliance, NATO. That is why we support the appeal and call on all NATO member states to support Ukraine's application to join NATO, to start a preparation plan and not wait for the end of the war, Ukraine's accession to NATO. Today, not only does NATO need Ukraine for security, but today Ukraine needs NATO to protect the European continent in order to protect the world from the aggressors in order to form a new system of collective security after the end of the war, where Ukrainian experience and Ukrainian influence must be decisive. That's why we're voting in favour, and we're calling for the House to support this appeal for Ukraine's NATO accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Mr. Devajchenko, one more minute, after which we vote, dear colleagues. Please, Valentin Alexandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u37	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, dear protectors! Today's the day in Parliament that's for you. Today in Parliament, when we from all over the country say that Ukraine's place in the military and political union, and the military and political union, we call it NATO, it's security and it's defence. And for the Fatherland faction, for years and decades, it was and is a priority. For the premieres of Yulia Timoshenko, they applied to NATO in the eighth year, they built an anti-terrorist NATO range here under Kiev, then in the 14th year, there was a clear NATO program, and it was the 23rd year, and our will didn't change. Ukraine will be in NATO, and we will achieve this time by all of us, because our Armed Forces in the field of combat are doing it every day. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u38	Heroic glory! Please, Chernev's still asking. Chernev, "Serve of the people." Yegor, please. And after that, we're voting exactly, I hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u39	Colleagues, there's been a lot of talk about what we have to be in NATO, but we have to do more than just talk, because let's be honest, except for the political decision that 31 already have to be made by NATO countries in order to become a member, we have to do our homework. And this is, in particular, a reform of the BBM, in particular a reform of the House of State, in particular a reform of civil control over the area of defence and security. And that's what we have to do as soon as possible. I emphasize and stress what NATO is asking us to do, but we can't do anything here, inside the country, either. Please, let's speed up on these issues and we will definitely be in NATO.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, a really important parliamentary track on this issue, so that we can find the support of Ukraine to NATO right between parliaments. And we thank Lithuania very much for their first decision. And this decision, this statement of the Supreme Council will be the basis for each of us, for the leadership of the Supreme Council, for factions, for groups, for every MP to communicate with our fellow MPs and to do everything to make Vilnius, which for Ukraine is already a historic place, because I'll remind you that many years ago in Vilnius, we lost our Euro-integration perspective. So let's do everything we can to find our Euro-Atlantic perspective in Vilnius this year. That's why I'm asking you to take your seats. Dear colleagues, and I propose to accept, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the States members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the NATO Parliamentary Assembly on Ukraine's membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please tell me, who could now have more important issues than voting for NATO? Take your seats. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:55:45]] For 352 Decision taken. Show me the factions, dear fellows. Let's see the factions. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, according to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Nikorak Irina Petrovna, as part of the parliamentary faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Welcome!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next question is 8297. According to article 85, paragraph 16, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to release the Head and other members of the Court of Auditors. According to the requirements of part four of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of War, 129 Ukrainian National Deputies have taken a collective initiative and registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine a corresponding draft Decree (registration number 8297) on the expression of distrust by Pakkan Valerija Vasilovich. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. In accordance with article 208 with the 2nd Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered the matter at its meeting and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide on it by voting. Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal is made to deal with the matter in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:57:33]] For 244 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question. For the report, I understand, one of the initiators of the proposal, National Deputy of Ukraine Sergey Vijacheslavovich Kozir. But since it's both from the committee and it's four minutes away, I understand? Please. You're given up to four minutes, both from the committee and from.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! For your consideration, we have proposed a draft Decree with Registration No. 8297 on Distrust of Packaan Valeri Vasilovich. Thanks to its fruitful interaction with our international partners and in the framework of Ukraine's European integration, Ukraine's Bill on the Court of Auditors was adopted in 2015. Let me give you just a few examples of Valérie Puckan's failure to execute the responsibilities of the Head of the Court of Auditors. Contrary to the rules of articles 3, 7, 21, 25, 27, 42 of the Law, the inaction of Valerius Paccan has led to extremely negative consequences for his leading institution. For more than three years, Valérie Paccan has not been directly reviewed at the Court of Auditors’ meeting, the approval and publication of the report on the results of the NAMC audit. This is the direct personal responsibility of the Head of the Court of Auditors. For five years now, Valérie Paccan has failed to properly implement international auditing standards in the face of numerous overseas missions. Despite numerous grants and projects from international partners, the Court of Auditors has been able to approve only one financial audit manual over the years. This is a very negative trend that hinders Ukraine's European integration. This has been highlighted by EU representatives in their official documents and positions. The greatest result of the head’s inaction and failure to exercise authority is the absence of internal audit for more than four years. The report of the Court of Auditors in 2022 does not provide an assessment of its effectiveness. The Court of Auditors has unwarrantedly planned and received nearly 160 million budget allocations from 2018 to 2022. This has been done by taking into account the maximum number of employees of the body much larger than actually working. For example, in 2022 a total of 713 people were actually employed by 478 people, a difference of 235. The inadequate organization of the work process, the lack of staff planning, and the efficiency of budget management resulted in millions of government budget losses. Military budgets over the past two years depend heavily on the assistance and credit of Western partners. The designated aid is now being measured by hundreds of billions of dollars, and postwar reconstruction will require even more resources. The United States, the EU and other donors are right to expect us not to spend so much money in vain. This calls for a doubling of the state’s efforts to control spending and to combat corruption in an uncompromising manner. The account room is supposed to be in the vanguard of these processes, not to be a foreign observer, and it is impossible to do so under active leadership. Taking into account the stated and our responsibility to the Ukrainian people with you, I would like to urge you, honourable national deputies, to support Decree 8297, to express your mistrust and to relieve you of your duties as a member of the House of Auditors, Mr. Valery Vasilovich, Head of the House of Auditors. Thank you all. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u44	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two in favour, two in opposition to the speech, and then we vote. That's how he acted from the committee, isn't it? All of it. I'm sorry. So I'm a little bit. Please two in, two in, two in. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u45	Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to give Alexia a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u46	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u47	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we are now discussing with you the question not of a particular person, nor of the House of Accounts about Valery Paccan -- no, we are discussing a much broader question. Do you and I follow the laws and procedures or not? Because it's illegal, what's happening right now. Because there's no procedure that we're trying to do right now. Because the bill on the House of Accounts clearly states that this cannot be done. If we do this with the House of Accounts today, what are we going to do tomorrow, and with whom? This is the destruction of the rule of law in the state. You can't move like that. Second of all, you and I are ruining the last of these ghosts, even some germs. I don't know, it's the same little thing in control of our country. Look, Parliament, where's the government? The government isn't moving. We don't ask them questions. Television is under control. Hello, national marathon! Next. We see an appointment in law enforcement. All under the control of only active authority. And now the Court of Auditors, which is supposed to be the highest audit authority in the state, is also under the control of the government. And if a person is not in power, please sign "ministers of the people" and get out of here, and appoint a new officer, then we need to control the House of Accounts. What else doesn't control "Serial of the People" and Andrew Jermak in this state? How long is this going to take? Leave any mechanism behind, you're destroying the mechanisms to protect the country from corruption, abuse, everything else, and then there'll be huge problems. Stop right now, let's go!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u48	Please, Network, that's what I understand. Please, Frolov, "Serve of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, the full-scale war that the enemy has brought into our home, requires an excess not only of the U.S.S.U.S. in the field of battle, but also of concerted, effective work on all other fronts, including on the auditorium. The results of Valérie Packan’s management of the House of Accounts over the past five years are extremely negative, and criminal cases involving an active head have resulted in irreparable losses, a reputation for the entire body. The Eurocommission report on Ukraine’s implementation of Euro-Integration Commitments marked the complete failure of Euro-Integration by a Chamber that did not become a higher public audit body. Unbiased Europeans find the poor quality of the auditory work, the conduct of inspections, not of audits, the minimal impact of the room’s recommendations, and the poor communication of work. The only Euro-Integration criterion that has been exceeded in the first year of the House’s management, Mr. Packan, has been the level of pay. The first and virtually only non-technical changes to the House of Accounts Act by Mr. Puckan became. amendments were made to remove the ceiling for work, allowing the budget allocated to the apparatus to refer to the write-off of premiums. After that, understaffing became a systemic phenomenon. And in all these five years, there was no and no full - time head of the Audit Department. In the 22nd year, the work of the chambers deteriorated. And to the end. Today, on the committee, when Mr. Packan accused me of lying, it was discovered that in five years he did not understand the difference between a checkup and an audit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, Krulko Ivanovich. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, I listened to the committee's opinion, and it impressed me. It turns out that during the war it's actually the organ's ability to do this kind of work for a number of employees who are less than twice as likely to do it. It turns out that the tens of billions of dollars that come to us as aid from the United States, the European Union, Japan and many other countries should be controlled, not by appropriate ministries and departments, but by the bad news that it will then be incomprehensible to control the Supreme Council's control body. Well, we're going to go very far. The reports provided by the Court of Auditors, regardless of who was President, who was Minister of Finance, whose majority was in the Supreme Council, were worthy reports, which were used by virtually all national MPs. I'm not talking about procedure anymore. So we're not taking him out of the Head of the Accounts, and we're getting him out of the House of Accounts, and he's losing his post. Colleagues, it is clear that the Head of the Court of Auditors and most of them should be of the opposition. Just as the so-called autocratic president of Kuchma did, with the head of the budget committee on opposition. And that's exactly what we suggested, for example, when we were in the majority, that the head of the budget committee, the head of the accounting office, should be the opposition. We will not vote for this decision. This is a political solution. To anyone who is ashamed, you better get out of the hall. Don't take this sin on yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u52	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. And, dear fellows, after this we vote, I ask you to invite the national deputies to the hall. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u53	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. We've heard a lot of thoughts, and I think we need to identify ourselves as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 16, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part four of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law, I am voting for the adoption of the entire draft Order (registration number 8297) on the non-trust of Packaan Valeri Vasilovich. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:09:23]] For the 250. Decision taken. It's consistent with the position. Let's see the factions. In accordance with the provisions of Article 208 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in article 20 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, I ask the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters to announce and arrange for a vacancy in the Chamber of Auditors. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. We've got the next one. Next bill, 7588. 7588 is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the efficiency of land use by individuals and entities in the state economy. We consider it in a second reading. We had a deal, first. Fellow dignitaries, there are two amendments that we've identified with colleagues that we support. Come on, I'm asking you to stay put, dear colleagues. And there's a request, this is the amendment of the national MP of Blackmaorov and Sternichuk, the amendment of 326 and 539. Right, colleagues? Do we support these adjustments? They're rejected. Yes, they are. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Let's vote on these two amendments first. There he is. Mr. Blackmoorov, you're asking for amendment 326 and 539. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u55	Both of you. Please, I'll bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the amendment is taken into account, so please vote. Amendment 326. She's been rejected by the committee. At the same time, the author asks for it to be taken into account. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:35]] For 272 Decision taken. And another amendment is 539. It is also rejected by the committee, and the author requests that the amendment be taken into account. Therefore, I ask the people's deputies to vote. Amendment 539. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:12:05]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, these two adjustments are taken into account. Next up, Your Honor, we're going to have to make amends from the Fatherland faction. First, instead of their five-minute revisions, Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko's speech will be followed by Puziyczuk's revisions. Please, Julia Volodymyr. Only, Julia Volodymyrna, we have here. All right, give Julia 5 minutes Volodymyr. And while Julia Volodymyrna begins, Andrew Puziyczuk, step to the presidency for a second. Please, Julia Volodymyrna, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u57	Dear friends, there today I heard someone from the rostrum talking about the Passionous Week, there's one command: don't steal. I can't understand how, this Passion Week, we have a bill of 7,588 that broke into the agenda, where it's actually 4 million hectares of state land. I want to look into the eyes of those authors that this dermitzo is stretching out in the Supreme Council. You know, it's already going straight across. Because 4 million acres [4 million ha] of land from this rostrum when the famous agricultural land sales law was passed, some of the heads of state here said that no one touched the state land, the pens there. What are they really doing now? Just look at what the Ukrainian people do behind their backs when the Ukrainian people die for their independence, for their sovereignty. First. They take the land to all scientific and educational institutions, including the Academy, where all the research was done, where our crops were raised in higher educational institutions. In fact, it's also the formation of our seed government fund, it's a very important function that this country has done in creating our nation's food security, and it's also driven science in agricultural production. What are they doing now? They're taking state enterprises, where there's agricultural land, and the best in Ukraine, because science is the best, they're creating stock companies from state enterprises. You know, it's the very tested way of doing it now, when a state-owned enterprise is renamed by law into a stockholder society, and the state no longer controls it. Then they pass it on to these shareholders instead of constantly using it for 50 years, and then they give the government of Ukraine the right to distribute it in any way among those who yearn for good Ukrainian land through the transfer of management by these shareholders. Please tell me, when will this corruption be over in this room? When do you stop stealing from people during the war for the last time, in the state for the last time, when will you stop? Who has the conscience to press this button? Those who spoke of the Passionous Week? But that is not all. Because they continue, they give the government the right to consolidate these shareholders into one large company. And that means that farming, family farming are crowns, just like agrarian universities, just like agrarian science. I want to ask you, what are you doing? Are these 4 million acres of land that you have to steal during the war? Give me a name that's going to be trashed, who's going to run these stock companies. But that is not all. These shareholders are given the right to transfer in a suborendum without the permission of the owner. Show at least one country where such a right exists. And the owner is the state. Without permission from the state at the local level, they'll be handing over 4 million hectares in sub-priority. I don't know, honestly, how will this entire vachanal end up in this hall after the destruction of the nation's national interests, the destruction of national wealth and the destruction of human rights and freedoms when it ends and what. Well, we had examples in the history of Ukraine when it didn't end very well for those who initiated and conducted such things. I'm asking everyone who has a conscience in this room to vote with red buttons against it, because it's already a dead end. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u58	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, we still have a letter, I understand, Mr. Andry Puziyczuk. They're going to make some adjustments. There's a lot of amendments, 92, don't you think? Please, here we go. First amendment is 74th, right? She's been rejected by the committee. Please, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u59	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ruslan Alexiyovich, with your permission, one more minute from the procedural question. Look, apart from the 92 amendments that you've been given, I'm going to put 136 amendments on the table. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'll give you a letter during the vote and 136 amendments for confirmation. Dear colleagues, regarding this bill. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko said quite correctly: There is nothing in this bill about improving the efficiency of land use. This is actually a Ryder scheme that can be assumed to have been created by the previous head of the Holding Foundation, who created a lot of similar schemes. This bill was registered in September 2022 as the previous leader, and let's start it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, 74 amendments, rejected by the committee. Pussychuk puts it on the line. I ask you to identify and vote. [[13:19:22]] For-49 The decision is not taken. The next 81 amendments. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u61	Yes, thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziychuk. Dear colleagues, let's help our colleague today's Head of State, Rustem Umerov, to reject this bill because it will have negative consequences for the state, and negative consequences for the State Property Fund. What's this bill about? Look, it's not about raising government, it's about how to get out of state property in a schematic way, actually privatizing 700,000 hectares of land. This is the land of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, this is the land of universities, universities, colleges, technicians, PTU, this is the land of the beneficiary service. And, colleagues, we cannot support such a bill. And please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u62	81 amendments, rejected by the committee, authored by Puziyczuk, insists on accounting. Please vote. [[13:20:50]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 97. Please, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u63	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I have a question for a representative of the Agrarian Committee. Can you explain to us how colleagues, the first question the State will benefit from adopting this bill? And the second question is, how will the state budget be filled? Now, you've come up with a very beautiful name -- about efficiency gains, please give an argument as to who's going to be effective about this, explain. Two questions: what is the efficiency and how the state budget will be filled. And I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u64	97 revision of the authorship of Puziychuk. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:01]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 105. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u65	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I am addressing you, perhaps Parliament -- this will be a place of discussion, and our colleagues should hear from a representative of the agrarian committee arguments or explanations, which is very nice, good, positive in this bill. Explain to the people, for the nation that is positive, especially during the war. And the second question is, explain how the state budget will be filled. And there's no answer, because there's no answer. This bill is definitely not about the state. This bill is not about filling the state budget, and this is a scheme that we can assume is made by the previous heads of the State Property Fund. We should definitely support such initiatives. Ruslan Alexiyovich, give us a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u66	Mr. Andrey, I'm happy to be able to speak, but it's very difficult to speak, for example, I think, on an amendment that the committee considers editorially and essentially your claim, for example, I didn't understand anything that you want. But if the committee has something to say, please, but it's taken into account. Please, if you want, and you don't, we vote. Everybody got it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u67	No, I'd like to point out that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u68	105. Dear colleagues, 105 revisions to the authorship of Puziychuk. She is an editorial committee, the author insists on taking full account of her amendment. I'm putting the author's proposal to a vote. Please vote. [[13:23:59]] For-43 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains counted, but edited. The next amendment is 116. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Ruslan Alexiyovich, we are discussing both my amendments and the bill. So there are colleagues who have to be conscious and have the opportunity to analyze this bill and understand the risks it poses and the risks it poses. This is the removal of land without agreement with the Academy of Agricultural Sciences, without agreement with the Ministry of Education, without agreement with universities. This could be an deletion. The main thing is that the adoption of this bill will not cost the state budget. The bill is designed to allow state-owned enterprises to rent land, and the funds will be paid to state-owned enterprises. And the funds will go to pay off the existing debt. There is no state in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u70	Please respond briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u71	My dear colleague, that's totally not true, because, if you know, according to our legislation, 90 percent of the income is still going to the state budget from state enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u72	Fellow dignitaries, 116 revisions to the authorship of Puziyczuk, are included in part. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the offer of author Puzichuk. Please vote. [[13:25:52]] For-42 The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. 127 amendment, it's also taken into account editorially. Please, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u73	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, once again listen very carefully to what our leader has pointed out and what the purpose of this bill is. The purpose of this bill is, in fact, a schematic way to remove 700,000 hectares of land from government property. How will this happen? Act of continuous use will be leased, state-owned enterprises will become stockholders or limited liability companies, and corporate rights will be sold. So there's actually this schematic hidden, you have to say, this is not a very transparent privatization scheme, it's getting out of the state property of a very large array of land. And I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u74	127 amendment, it's taken into account editorially. Puzijchuk, a national MP who is the author of this amendment, insists that it be taken fully into account. I'm putting the author's proposal to a vote. Please vote. [[13:27:19]] For-39 The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. Next up is 134 amendments. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u75	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I want to inform our colleagues that the authors of this bill are now trying to destroy it? They are trying to destroy the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, which now employs 15,000 294 workers. The academy is funded from the state budget for one third. Dear colleagues, from the state budget, the academy receives only 500 million dollars in their budget of 1.8 billion. Anything else, they have the opportunity to make money on the lands that they're working on, on the lands that you're trying to take away from them right now. And we certainly cannot allow an academy to be destroyed today, to be brought out of the ground, to keep people at war without work and without pay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u76	134 amendment, rejected by the committee, authored by Puziyczuk. Please identify and vote. [[13:28:53]] For-45 The decision is not taken. The next amendment of the 150th author of Puziczuk is taken into account in an editorial way. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziychuk. Dear colleagues, many of you have scientific degrees, you've had scientific leaders, you've studied in postgraduate studies, you've had PhDs. Listen, today at the Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 437 PhDs, 1 thousand 453 candidates for science. Do you really want to destroy the country's scientific acquisition right now -- these are our achievements, the gains of our science? If you're not set up by one person, let's work out a bill to make the academy accountable and accountable to the Supreme Council, so that you can accept the relevant human resources conclusions, but not destroy science. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u78	150 revisions of Puziczuk's authorship are edited. The author insists on taking full account. I'm putting the author's proposal to a vote. Please vote. [[13:30:26]] For-36 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains edited. The next amendment is 164. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u79	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, to date, according to the tasks approved by the Ministry of Education of the Basic Applied and Short Term Applied Tasks of the National Academy of Sciences, there are 1,000 169. These are the scientific developments that are at the development stage, and they are being worked on by the people that I've mentioned. So why don't you explain, I would like to hear some logic and reasoning from the agrarian committee as to what this is called for. And now we're going to talk about who is being handed over to this land and whether it really is going to be able to run this land effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u80	Thank you. 164 amendments, partially counted. The author of the Puzijchuk People’s Deputy demands full consideration. I'm putting the author's proposal to a vote. Please vote. [[13:31:57]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 175. Andrew Puziyczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u81	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, scientific objects with national acquisition status, you may have heard of this: this is a bank of strains of microorganisms for veterinary medicine, a bank of genetic resources and plants, a collection of culture cells for veterinary medicine and biotechnology, a bank of specific immunodiagnostics, a collection of animals at the Biosphere Reserve of Ascania-Nova. It's all science. Look, you're trying to destroy our science right now, just like in the early 2000s, you were actually destroying a sanepidem station in Ukraine. And in 2020, Ukraine turned out without science, without training, and without sanepidemstation. So we can't destroy science today, let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u82	175 Puzichuk's correction. The committee's dismissed. The author insists on taking this amendment into account. Please vote. [[13:33:28]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Next 178, Puzichuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u83	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. You know, dear colleagues, we, the ninth vocation MPs, the previous eight vocations, despite the temptations they had, no one raised their hand in Ukrainian science, no one destroyed the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences. You're doing this for the first time in the history of an independent state. Yes, unfortunately, our science remains. The financing of science remains in principle the last one, i.e. it is not in the priority of financing our Ukrainian science, but on account of this land, they have the opportunity, once again, to fund themselves for two thirds. And yet, Ruslan Alexiyovich, allow a committee representative to explain the benefits and effectiveness of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u84	Please, a representative of the 178th amendment committee, which sounds like this: paragraph 6 of paragraph 6 of section I, delete. Can you explain something?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u85	Like everyone else, my dear colleague, these papers were editorially supported. And the committee, when you made concessions, tried to trust you and that you wouldn't be blackmailing the situation in the hall. And everything you've said, I've personally observed, for example, you as a member of the Committee on Budgets, you've not been given any permission to stimulate the support of science as a member of the Committee on Budgets. And the regulation says about the rules on land trade procedures for acquisition of land suborndances that are leased to households whose shares are 100 percent owned by our country of Ukraine. A hundred percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u86	Thank you. I bet 178 Puzichuk's amendment. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:03]] For-42 The decision is not taken. 183 amendment, it's taken into account editorially. Please, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u87	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. And thank you very much, Mr. Blackmoorov, for keeping a close eye on my MP activity, for analyzing all the amendments I've made, including the budget. But what I want to point out is that you've been doing a little bit of work in the preparation of the State Budget projects, and I'm making some adjustments to support Ukrainian science -- both agrarian and medical, and education. So if you have the opportunity and the desire, please check my revisions and tell your colleagues the next time that you misinformed them. And with regard to this bill, look, you're trying, once again, to make a scheme where the state won't get the money from the rent, they're going to get the state enterprises. Well, that's nonsense.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u88	183 amendment, it's taken into account editorially. However, the author of Puziychuk requires that this amendment be fully taken into account. I'm putting Puzichuk to the vote. Please vote. [[13:37:40]] For-40 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains edited. Next amendment, 187 by Puzichuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u89	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the logic of this bill must be completely different, and it must be aimed at filling the state budget and filling the state budget from June 2023, not once, not in 2025 and not in 2029. What must we do about it? Ruslan Alexiyovich, listen to me very carefully. And yet let's talk about the proposal. These should be changes that state-owned agrarian enterprises that do business should pay rent instead of renting land. The goal of their activities is to carry out agricultural activities, this is commercial activity. They should pay money to the state, not get money for state land.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u90	187 revision of the authorship of Puziyczuk was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:11]] For-43 For 42. The decision is not taken. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u91	Please, next 192.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u92	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. We have Mr. Getmantz's head of the tax committee in the hall. Let's ask a professional financier whether, if this bill is adopted, the state budget will receive funds or not? Colleagues, listen to the absurdity of this bill. Once again, public enterprises will receive money for the state’s land in rent, not for doing business. Mr. Danilo, why don't you explain to them that the government budget won't get the money, but you need to make a bill that all businesses will pay for the rent of the state land, even if they have a permanent use act. Alexander Sergiyovich, give the head of the tax committee the opportunity to explain in a professional way. The state will not receive money when it adopts this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u93	Andriy Viktorovich, if the head, twice mentioned by you to the budget committee, as you say, of the tax committee and customs committee Danilo Alexanderovich of Getmans will consider it necessary to take the floor now, he will take the floor. Danilo Aleksandrovitch, I'm sorry to distract you, will you take the line? Puziyczuk mentioned you twice. Please, the Gethmans, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a fine law, I offer to support and not to waste time in mysterious ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u95	Thank you. There's a committee position, Mr. Artem.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u96	Yes, the position of the committee remains the same, because the final statement that I wanted to say, which is not different from the other rights that our colleague puts, which is one hundred percent of the shares, they still belong to the state. So all revenue will go evenly into the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u97	Please allow me to vote on the motion to take into account the number 192 of National Deputy Timoshenko, Puziyczuk. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:41:47]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Next issue, 196. Please, Andrew Viktorovich, also yours, rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u98	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. It is a pleasure to hear that we have a constructive, progressive way forward. Dear colleagues, a representative of the agrarian committee confirmed that the state budget would not receive money and that the money would either be paid to state enterprises or to shareholders. So once again, this bill is not about the state, not about the state budget, which today is very much in need of funds. Now let's analyze how these costs will come from state-owned enterprises or stock companies into the state budget. I want to say that there's no way they're going to come because these companies have a very large debt, a large loan debt, there's a court decision, and actually the money from the deposit will go to repay the debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u99	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u100	The committee's position is very simple. My dear colleague, you, like the other national deputies present in this room, know that the land under constant use in all dispatches, including the Agrarian Academy of Sciences and other structures, needs a transparent, purely transparent method of renting them to earn the profit of our state. Because our state now needs to enrich the budget in order to contain our army, which is now fighting on the forerunner, which is protecting this very land that you're talking about, these are the guys who are standing on the fore and protecting Ukrainian land, and now you're imbalanced this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u101	I'm betting on the vote number 196. It's rejected by the committee. The authors insist on taking it into account. Please vote. [[13:44:17]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Next line number 207, Timoshenko, Puziychuk. Please, Andrew Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u102	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. I address, colleagues, first of all, to a representative of the agrarian committee and to you, I very much wanted there to be a professional debate in Parliament. Mr. Blackmoorov, you hear that you're saying that the purpose of agrarian enterprises is to rent state land. Well, is it true that the state needs these state-owned enterprises? You're saying that the state itself can't rent land and get funds into the state budget, starting in June 23rd. Why do you set up a scheme for filling up money with unintelligible businesses? And if the enterprise is agrarian, it has to work in the same market conditions and pay the rent to the state independently of its form of ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u103	Thank you, Andry Viktorovich. Let's go to the vote or the committee will. To the vote. Please vote. 207 amendments, rejected by the committee, Puzijczuk’s national deputy, Timoshenko. Please vote. [[13:45:56]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next up, 215th. Also rejected. Please, Andrew Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u104	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Artem, you mentioned the budget, the support of science and all. I have a question for you. Please tell me that the government budget provides 500 million dollars from the state budget for science financing and 1.3 billion dollars from the activities of state agrarian enterprises in the administration of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences. In the event that these lands are taken away, how will science be funded, how will scientists receive wages? What do you suggest, can you explain? How will electricity be paid this year, heat paid, wages paid, taxes paid? Explain how science will finance it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u105	Please, Artem.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u106	My dear colleague, I would like to point out that science is going to be funded by the Ukrainian budget. This applies only to state-owned enterprises that enter the Academy of Sciences. Only those state-owned enterprises that don't go to scientific institutions are going to go under this law and go to the right of the sub-orendum that we're discussing with you. As we voted with you on the budget for the financing of the Agrarian Academy of Science and Science as a whole, so it will be in 2023. It won't change anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u107	Please vote. 215 were rejected by the Committee of People’s Deputies, Timoshenko, Puziyczuk. Please vote. [[13:48:01]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 219 of National MP Timoshenko, Puziyczuk, rejected by the Committee. Andrew Viktorovich Puziyczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u108	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mr. Artem, it's very sad that you're giving your colleagues not very reliable information. Our science, the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, is funded by the state budget and the special fund. The Special Fund is being filled by the activities of agrarian enterprises in the administration of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. And we're going to have that science this year is going to be underfunded. So my question is very simple. What will happen: You will register as the subject of the legislative initiative for budget changes, and how will most of you make changes, and you will provide funding for science? How will science be funded?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u109	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 219, rejected by the committee. Committee position, Artem Olegovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u110	Dear colleague, this is the last time I'm going into a discussion with you. I mean, 219 revisions don't have any bearing on your question at all. You're just blackmailing Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u111	Thank you. Please vote. 219 law. [[13:49:52]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 232 People’s Deputies of Puziyczuk, Timoshenko, rejected by the committee. Please, Andrew Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u112	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Mr. Artem, I believe that there is a notion of parliamentaryism, there is a place of parliamentary discussion, and every MP is a representative of the Ukrainian people in Parliament, and he represents the Ukrainian people in Parliament, so your statements are probably a little bit incorrect, and I have the right to present my position through speeches, to argue this bill. And I'm asking you to have a professional discussion. So I'm asking a simple question to my colleagues, and they also want to understand why you, as a representative of an agrarian committee against the norm, are going to make sure that the state, not state-owned enterprises, is directly renting land and getting rent for it. Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u113	Artem Olegovich. 232 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u114	Dear colleague, I'm answering your question again, and I'm also a representative of the people of Ukraine, and the people in general are tired of you saying the same thing over and over again. The state is a 100%, percent owner, which is what you're talking about. This means that the state is also receiving the proceeds of this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u115	Thank you. Please vote. 232 People's Deputy Puziyczuk, Timoshenko. The committee's dismissed. [[13:52:08]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 239 Law of the People's Deputy Puziychuk and Timoshenko. Please, Andrew Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u116	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Artem Olegovich, please tell me, do you have a response from the State Property Fund that there are state-owned enterprises in their administration, which have what amount of land as of today? That's the first question. You're telling me that the state, the state, will get it. How much land is in the government of the State Property Fund today? And the second question is, what did the state get in the 21st, in the 20th, maybe in the 22nd year, the state got what it got from the business? Tell me, you say very beautiful things, that state enterprises are a state. What did the government budget receive? There's a profit, tell us, and I'll tell you what the results of the state-run enterprises are.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u117	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please, 239 People's Deputies of Puziychuk, Timoshenko. The committee doesn't count. Please vote. [[13:53:43]] For-30 The decision is not taken. 242 readjustment, please, of the People's Deputy Timoshenko, Puziyczuk has been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u118	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I'd like you to tell me, please. See, the law about what? What is this law about? Take the land away from the Academy of Agricultural Sciences, take the land away from our higher education institutions, take the land to education, and what do you do? Transfer this land to the government of the State Property Fund. Today, there are enterprises, state-owned enterprises, with which bank of land, and what is the effectiveness of managing this land by the State Property Fund and these enterprises? What Did the State Get? Please explain. Why are you silent? You don't want to talk about the damage?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u119	Please, Artem Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u120	Dear colleague, first of all, I think you're going to have to talk because you're coming in. A member of the interim commission of inquiry on the use of land of the agrarian Academy of Sciences, that's the first. And as parliamentarians, we're either going to vote in favour, or we're going to decide that he's imperfect. And second of all, I'd like to say that 90 percent of these lands that are under continuous use are used in shadow. And by no means, if the owners of these lands that fit this law do not acquire the right as scientific institutions and submit them to the Cabinet of Ministers, then the Cabinet of Ministers may decide that they are scientific institutions, and in no way will this law apply to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u121	I'm betting on the vote number 242. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:56:08]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Artem Olegovich, the law is enough. And as a member of the committee, how many of them could you tell me more professionally? Next, please, Andrew Viktorovich. 246 revisions, also rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am very grateful to the report that he says that the enterprises in the area of government of the State Property Fund are ineffective, that the representative of the committee notes under the microphone, the transcript, the video that the land on these enterprises is being processed in a shadowy way. And I have a question: what will change this law, and what has changed this year? Nothing. And you are absolutely against it! Sir, I'm going to ask you a simple 20-time question. Explain why you are lobbying this bill, and why do you object to the State surrendering land rather than these businesses? Well, explain the logic!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u123	Will you answer, Artem Olegovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u124	I'm going to answer my colleague 30 times, and I'm even going to quote that the whole point of this is not what he's saying. And this 245 is. Or 246, they're all the same as they were, a number of amendments that propose to exclude from the bill the rules on land trade procedures for acquisition of land suborndances that are leased by households, 100 percent of which are owned by the State. If my colleague wants to exclude this amendment, it means that he still insists that most lands are not the State Property Fund, namely the agrarian Academy of Sciences, which is used in the shadow sciences, should remain, be used in the shadow, and should not go to the state as a percentage shareholder. Thank you very much. And no auction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u125	Please vote. 246 People’s Deputies — Timoshenko and Puziyczuk The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:58:47]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 252 People's Deputies of Timoshenko, Puziyczuk. The committee's dismissed. Please, Andrew Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u126	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. You know, we have such a one-sided discussion. In fact, what I'm proposing is to reject this bill completely, it's not accepted in the interests of the state, it's taken in the interests of actually today the heads of certain state-owned enterprises that will rent this land. Oh, on suborendum, I'm sorry. The government should rent land, not state enterprises. If you take a respected reporter, the statutes of state enterprises, and you read the statutes of state enterprises, they don't have the purpose of renting state land. Their goal is economic activity and they either have to do it or cease to exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u127	Please, Artem Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u128	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, I am truly grateful that you have given me your word for replication. And yet I would like to point out to Parliament and to the people of Ukraine that every piece of paper that my colleague asks for confirmation applies to the same thing. A colleague against being a transparent, purely transparent method of renting land from a destination and staying in the shadows, and so far as is still under cover of night, and the costs go not into the government budget, but in the pocket, just in the pocket of some, excuse me, people who are currently sitting on these state enterprises. And I'm saying that after this law, the 100 percent shareholder will still be the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u129	Thank you, Artem Olegovich. Please, colleagues, 252 rights, Committee dismissed, National Deputies Timoshenko, Puziyczuk. Please vote. [[14:01:21]] For-29 The decision is not taken. 258 People’s Deputies — Timoshenko and Puziyczuk Please. The committee's dismissed. Andrew Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u130	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. It's a shame that the agrarian committee doesn't really hear what it's about, and they're changing their minds. As landowner, the State should rent itself and receive funds to the state budget each month as a payment of rent. What you're talking about as a sub-brand, you say, Artem Olegovich, you know, as a representative of an agrarian committee, that the sub-order can't be more than a rent. Well, when you talk about the purpose of state-owned enterprises being given away in a sub-priority, I have a simple question: what is the purpose of their activities if they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u131	Let's go to the vote. 258. People's MP Timoshenko, Puziychuk. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[14:02:58]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 260 People’s Deputies’ Rights — Timoshenko, Puziyczuk The committee's dismissed. Please, Andrew Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u132	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, in December 2020, the Court of Auditors published a report on the results of the audit of the effectiveness of the implementation by the National Property Fund of Ukraine of the management of state-owned enterprises, institutions and organizations that have financial implications for the state budget. According to the report and the results of the tests at state enterprises, institutions, and organizations under the State Property Fund, violations have been detected, consider the figure of 90 billion dollars. Are you saying exactly that the State Property Fund is an effective public property manager?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u133	Artem Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u134	My dear colleague, I would like to take this opportunity to address the people of Ukraine and all those who are currently looking at us, and I would like to point out that you, I see, are still making sure that all the countries of destination that are under permanent use and are in state-owned enterprises continue to be used in shadow and that the state does not receive the budget. And yet I'm going to say on behalf of the entire agrarian committee that we've been behind a transparent, transparent relationship between the state and the business, and we're going to want all the funds now that there's a full-scale war to go into the state budget and our country to be whole and, above all, self-sustained at the expense of its lands. I am truly grateful that you are on the same page saying things. But that doesn't change the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u135	I'm betting on the vote of 260 national deputies, Timoshenko and Puziychuk. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[2:05:44]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Please, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u136	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please consider the following 264 revisions of Puziyczuk's authorship. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u137	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, please tell me if anyone can explain to a representative of the Agrarian Committee that the state budget and state enterprises are different. Yes, these are state-owned enterprises that are based on the form of state property, but these are different things. And what I'm proposing is that state-owned enterprises pay rent for state land instead of renting state land. And, the honourable representative of the agrarian committee, listen, theoretically hypothetically, maybe someday the state will get dividends from these state-owned enterprises, but it won't be 2023, and it won't be 2024. And what I'm proposing is this in a transparent way.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u138	264 revision of the authorship of Puziyczuk was rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:07:26]] For-39 The decision is not taken. The next 266 is an amendment. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ruslan Alexiyovich, look, I understand we're completely out of discussion and we're being manipulated by an agrarian committee. So, look, what I'm asking, I'm asking you to put on the confirmation of Amendment 201 that says what, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u140	Mr. Andrey! Mr. Andrew, one second. We agreed first, we're going through the amendments that we're taking into account. Because there's a lot of people who want to put it on confirmation, they gave it to me. We're going after our amendments. So please, 266 revisions according to your letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u141	Ruslan Alexiyovich, thank you. I no longer insist on adjustments in accounting. I'm making an amendment to the letter I gave you. You have the letter I gave you. I'm asking you to put 201 amendments for confirmation. Colleagues, when a representative of an agrarian committee tells us that this law is going to create transparent conditions, it's totally not true. Let me explain why this amendment is so important. Local government authorities should conduct auctions, contests, and transfer only 20 acres [20 ha] of land, and state enterprises would have the right to bid and rent 200 acres [200 ha]. So I'm asking you to make this right, and the standard should be the same for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u142	Thank you, Mr. Andrew. But let's, if you don't mind, I gave you 266 first, we'll vote for it. Then I'd like to ask you. You're not going to insist on your amendments anymore, am I correct, Mr. Andrey? Turn it on, Puziczuk, I want to talk to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u143	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I already answered, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u144	Yes. The other one. Please tell me, how many adjustments are you going to make?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u145	Ruslan Alexiyovich, let's now vote on the 201 amendment, and then I'll define myself. You have a letter for all the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u146	No, look, I have a lot of other things besides your letter, and we can't make yours just one benefit today. So I wanted to go through all your adjustments, and then I have other colleagues who also want to make adjustments. So, come on, I'm going to vote 266 of yours first. Then I'll ask my colleagues if they don't mind, because someone else might want to put their own. And then we're going to go to 201 of yours. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u147	No, it's not. Ruslan Alexiyovich, look, I refused to insist on taking my amendments into account and I put to the vote 201 of the amendment. So I'm asking you to vote 201 of the amendment, and I've spoken on it, and I've put it up for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u148	Okay. Mr. Andrew, I heard you. But first I'm going to vote for 266 amendments, and then I'm going to answer for 201 amendments to my colleagues from the committee, and then we're going to be defining it. So far, 266 revisions. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:11:04]] For-45 The decision is not taken. This is 201 revisions. You spoke on it. I'll find her in a second. 201th, this is the authorship of Kucher. That's right, the authorship of Kucher. Please, what is the position of the 201 Kutcher Correction Committee? Committee position of 201 amendment. Explain it, it's up to you, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u149	This bill proposes to increase the size of the land area 10 times, which is passed on to permanent users at land markets. I'd like to point out that when we passed the land market bill, there was a regulation that no more than 20 hectares could be an area. Now we're increasing it 10 times. The committee supported this amendment, but still, as my colleague insists, he wants to put it on the stand. So, dear friends, decide for yourself, we're increasing the land by 10 times, from 20 to 200. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u150	Thank you. Mr. Andrew, you've heard the answer. Dear colleagues, 201 amendments to the Kucher People's Deputy. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, the Puzijczuk National MP is asking to put her on the committee's stand, and you've heard the committee's position. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. [[14:12:53]] For-170. The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. All of it. You've completed your amendments, Mr. Andrey, thank you. Dear colleagues. Thank you. Before the vote, a second, I'll ask you, we still have other fellow national MPs, if you don't mind, I'll ask them if they do. I understand we listened to you today. Dear fellow national MPs, who else will be? Alexi Mukchan, please call the number immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u151	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Amendment to 591 Artema Blackmaorov, I want to place it for confirmation. It refers to the control function of the agrarian privatisation committee. This is the natural function of the Economic Development Committee, it is provided for in the Privatization Act in Article 9. I don't think it's very fair for colleagues to take control over privatization. Please leave. Please reject this amendment and do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u152	Please take the seat of the committee, Artem.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u153	Dear friends, distinguished colleagues and members of parliament! I would like to make my rights clear because I personally believe that a monopoly on control, namely parliamentary control, cannot be exclusively in the Economic Policy Committee. My statement is that if the land that is part of a state enterprise is also in the majority district of that national deputy, it is part of a commission that has an advisory voice in relation to this state enterprise, and we are with you first, what the amendments my colleague says in 2020 to vote in favour of this function. So with this right, I just want to change the monopoly so that I can take part in parliamentary control in purely privatization activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, 591 amendments to the authorship of Montenegro. The committee is included, but the national MP Mojchán requests that such a decision be submitted to the committee for confirmation. I'll bet you 591. Please vote. [[14:15:41]] For-146 The decision is not taken. Duhtkov Dmitry Alexanderovich. Call the repair number. Dear colleagues, I think we'll be voting soon. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u155	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, a similar situation that Mr. Movchan has just mentioned. These are 555th and 556th Bogdans. They also delegate the mandate of a committee that is neither defined by the Supreme Council nor by the Constitution nor by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's similar to the one that's just been rejected in the hall. I suggest you put them in line and don't support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u156	Committee position. Please, Artem. 555th, 556th, right, Dmitri Alexanderovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u157	These were accepted by the committee, considering that every major MP involved in the district should hear the electorate of this district. And the state-owned enterprises that are located are not just DPs, they are villages that are in orbit with this DP. People work in these state-owned enterprises. And I think, and the members of the agrarian committee think that we need to hear people who, in order to rent these lands and the state-owned enterprise, have moved from a scientific institution or vice versa. So these amendments are very appropriate in this bill. I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will make these amendments in turn. 555 amendments to the authorship of Montenegro are considered by the committee. At the same time, the people’s deputy, Razumkov, requests that such a decision be made by the committee for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. 555th, please. [[14:17:44]] For 181 The decision is not taken. And the 556 amendment, similar reasoning, you heard the authorship of the Bogdan national MP. Discernment requests that such a decision be made by a committee to confirm the Supreme Council. So I'm putting this amendment in for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. 556 repairs. [[14:18:23]] For-189 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. If you would like the people's deputies to take their seats, let's move on to a decision on this bill. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? My fellow Members, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the efficiency of land use by individuals and entities of the State sector of the economy (registration number 7588). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:19:35]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I propose that this bill be sent back to read again. People's deputies, please vote. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:20:02]] For 235 Decision taken. The Law was sent for rereading. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill, thank you, 8312 is a bill amending some laws of Ukraine. Let's see the factions. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the legal regulation of matters related to the implementation of the legal regime of martial law. Dear colleagues, who will be of your colleagues? Please, who's it going to be? I got it. Then Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please. The number of the amendment and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u159	Thank you, Mr. Head. 12 revisions, 12 revisions. Colleagues, actually this law, this law, you know, this law of appearance with duty. So by taking stock and corporate rights as military property, today you're trying to back it up. But I'd like to talk about something else. In fact, taking such property into the state should benefit the State. What's going on today, let's say, in Skrnaft? The first thing a new government-designated management did was pay himself a salary, pay attention, 3 million dollars a month, that's the first. And the second thing they did, the Ukranafta management refused to transfer gas and gasoline to the Armed Forces and the self-sustainment population, they said, "We're going to sell everything at a commercial cost, we're going to transfer it to the so-called market." So it's about what if already.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u160	Please, Your Honor, 12th Amendment to Vlasenka. It's rejected by the committee. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:22:15]] For 139 The decision is not taken. You got everything, Sergey Volodymyrovich, right? Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich. Please, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u161	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, indeed.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u162	Repair number, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u163	Two amendments, that's 15th and 54th.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u166	Do it first.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u167	First of all, yes. In fact, it is necessary to improve the management of property that is eliminated during a state of war for the benefit of the Ministry of Defence, that is, the State as a whole. But the approach proposed by this bill is surprising. And he has signs of incompleteness. ambiguities. For example, we cannot understand how after the removal of previous owners, such as the Cremencucci plant CREAM, and after that, the company almost stopped its production. They need to be better prepared to do so, for they are nearly half.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the amendment of the 15th National MP of Zimbaluk. She's been rejected by the committee. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:24:13]] For-126 The decision is not taken. Mikhail Mikhailovich, can we take the next one or give you another minute? Please, Mikhailovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, Mikhailo Cimbaluk, "Fatherland" Continuation of the topic. Amendment number 54. This is about assessing property that is subject to compulsory reprisal under the bill. A significant amount of data is needed, and documents that have not been made available to the subject of the evaluation are available. The valuation of such property shall be carried out no later than 30 days from the date of the filing of the act. In such a case, the value of the property is determined by the subject of the valuation activity on the date on which the act was made. Dear colleagues, when it comes to corporate rights, you don't have to rush to make it not look like a nationalization of property. The bill is necessary, but as proposed, it raises doubts. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u170	54 Amendment of the Tsimbaluka Mikhailovich. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:25:44]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm still with you. Please, two minutes instead of seven amendments, right? And we vote one of them. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u171	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the government has canceled in its own time. I've decided to cancel the 30,000 prize to our supporters with you. First of all, it's against the Constitution. Because article 22 of the Basic Law of our State prohibits narrowing the rights and freedoms, especially the rights and freedoms of our defenders. So if we want to add and further stimulate those who fight in hell itself to zero, let's look for resources instead of doing this to other defenders. Secondly, when full-scale aggression began, many of our colleagues, including from the vast majority, had to ask the government questions to their honour: do you understand that we need to have enough of what we promise to the military for the rest of the war? The answer was clear: yes, we will. Therefore, we need to be responsible for what we say and for what we say and do. If the government cannot do so, the Supreme Council of Ukraine must do so. The paper returns $30,000 to our defenses by limiting the maximum salaries for officials. Because it's unfair when someone gets a few hundred thousand or a few million, when soldiers who protect us take away what they really deserve, exactly more than anyone else in this state. And you don't have to say that the military are backing this decision. Ours. I've never met any person who would be happy to have her family take the extra money she lives for today while her father or mother protects our state on the front. Now, by voting, everyone will determine whether he supports our defenders, whether he supports the high salaries of officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u172	Dmitri Alexanderovich, it's not a bad idea for you to name the number of the amendment yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u173	48th, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u174	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, we have rejected the amendment, because the amendment is completely repeated in another bill, which is now being considered on a committee that amends a completely different bill, namely the social and legal protection of military personnel and members of their families. This is also defined by the Ukrainian Defence Act. So all those who wish, Dmitri Alexanderovich, also invite you to a working group that is working and constantly meeting with the military, with Minfin, also to settle this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u176	Please, 48 amendments to Reasonable, it has been rejected by the committee. The author asks for it to be taken into account. Please vote. [[14:29:07]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the legal regulation of matters related to the implementation of the legal regime of the state of war (registration number 8312). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:30:05]] For 277 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on, dear fellows. I'm sorry, I have a letter, a break with a replacement for the performance. Right, Julia Volodymyrna? Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. These are the factions of Fatherland and Trust. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u177	First of all, I want to thank all those who have not voted on the land law 7588 "U." I think it's these MPs, the real people's deputies, who saved 4 million acres of land for the needs, the national needs, the agrarian needs of the country, including science. Now 8312. Dear friends, I'd like us to figure out what we're voting for. 8312, which you just voted in favour. I want to say here that the Fatherland faction voted 30,000 dollars for the military, but we cannot vote for this law. I'll explain why. The point is that we have part three of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Transfer, Forced Derogation or Removal of Property under the legal regime of war or state of emergency. What are we talking about? There's a law that allows during a state of war, during a war, to confiscate that private property or any other property that the Ministry of Defense needs to protect the country. What have they done? Under the cover of this law, companies were confiscated, which in principle had nothing to do with defending the country. And now, if you just voted that law, it becomes a universal norm, so now you can confiscate not what the army needs to defend the country, but just what you liked. I want to ask you how you want to wait for the investment after that. This is the first one. The other one. They confiscated the ransom, you know, and maybe that would be necessary for the defence, because there's oil coming out of it, including oil. But you know what? After such confiscation, petroleum products are sold at the exact same market price, not at the cost of self - worth plus reasonable profitability. In addition, they set wages for the management of Ukraine: 3.5 million to the leader and several million to all deputies. I want to ask why this law is now being voted in this way. The faction will stop this law by decree and ask for a second reading again.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u178	Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, the next bill 9079 is the draft Law on State Reserves. One second. We don't have a break, we have a break with the replacement for the show. There was a break with a replacement for the performance, they made a statement. Fellow dignitaries, 9079: Draft Law on State Reserves I'm asking you to take your seats. We're voting for inclusion in the agenda. Please, I ask the people's deputies to vote on this matter. We vote in favour of the 9079 agenda. [[14:34:44]] For 239. Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[14:35:05]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite you to the report of Deputy Minister of Economy of Ukraine, Fomenko Igor Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u179	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, you are being reviewed by the Ukrainian National Reserve Act. The introduction of the draft law and major changes are due to the inefficiency of the mechanism for managing stocks of material values. This is confirmed by, among other things, the large number of criminal conduct, as well as significant losses to the budget. The bill provides for a shift from an outdated Soviet system of storage to modern mechanisms for the formation and storage of state reserves based on European experience in this area. The bill provides for the improvement of the following aspects of the functioning of the state reserve: the updating of the principles and directions for the formulation of the nomenclature of material values of food, medical, technical, raw, energy; Consolidating the concept of reserves of material values and state material reserve, order and criteria for the selection of reserves; the delimitation of the national material reserve and the mobilisation reserve, as well as the clear definition of the balance sheet of such reserves; improving the way in which material values are refreshed; Where necessary, provision is made for the storage of material values and state reserves in other countries; empowering the newly created body to apply financial sanctions and the ability to exercise public oversight (control) as well as to increase the liability of the management entities that preserve the material values of the state reserves; The discharge of central executive bodies implementing public policy in the field of public reserves from the payment of the court; the creation of a secure automated data system that will account for, search, generalize, store and protect information about the material values of the state reserves. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u180	Thank you. Please give the floor to the head of the Committee on Economic Development of Kitsak Bogdan Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u181	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! On April 5, 2023, the Committee on Economic Development considered bill 9079 on Ukraine’s national reserves. All of us are familiar with the situation where there are some resources disappearing throughout the territory of Ukraine in the territory of state-owned enterprises, whether it's agrarian, or there's some kind of oil sub-shipment, and the answer then in the area of criminal investigations or other institutions, we find that either the mouse has eaten or something has passed, or it's evaporated somewhere else. Therefore, in order to avoid such situations, it is necessary to fully reform state reserves and the system of general storage and state reserve of valuable resources. Because during the full-scale invasion of the Russian Federation, we had a very negative situation when we were unable to ensure the critical availability of certain resources in different fields. Thus, the bill proposes to limit the state’s material reserve and the mobilization reserve. We foresee updated principles for the formation of a nomenclature of material values. We propose that the concept of reservation of order and selection criteria be legally established. We also anticipate the possibility of maintaining certain types of material values, such as oil resources, in other lands. We also impose penalties that will enable us to strengthen our responsibility and allow us to discipline our owners. At the same time, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office has made a number of observations that will need to be thoroughly worked out before the second reading, and by way of the right, to be made. As a result of the discussion, Ukrainian national deputies decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the results of the first reading and to start 116 articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u182	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please give the word to Queen Valentina Yuriovni, faction of the political party "Serve of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u183	Please pass the word to Dirdin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u184	Please, Maxim Dirdin.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u185	Good afternoon, everyone! Dear colleagues, I urge you to support this bill in the first reading because it is important for this bill to be adopted in the first reading. First moment. He'll let you reduce the corruption risks in the state reserve that are now, which have been all this time. As an example, my appeals were numbered from this rostrum to ensure the legality of businesses such as the No.76 bread base, the Mikolai district. But I still call on my colleagues and my fellow Parliamentary to ensure that we do not enter into such bills regarding the annulment of the judicial assembly on all drafts. Please take this into account in the future, both the Kabmin and the profiling committees. Thank you for your attention. And we will support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u186	Please, the Cubans, Ivan Stepanovich, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u187	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This bill is really necessary. This bill entails changes that we should make, and today we are discussing, between the first and the second readings. This project has implemented state policy over the past eight years in the field of government reserves, verification of material values, and government reserves. At the same time, it limits the state’s material reserve and the mobilization reserve, the balance sheet, and the authority of the central authority. I should have said this at a committee meeting, which should take due account of the warnings, the comments of the GNEU, to foresee real fuel storage mechanisms in Europe and to implement the appropriate alternative and procedure. Editorially, many positions in the Single State Register appear to be ineffective, under responsible storage, state reserves and storage, since these powers and these emphasiss are not in an effective focus and the project does not specify clear criteria for the delimitation of the state's material reserve and the mobilisation reserve. At the same time, what I'm saying is that there can be no foreign object, no foreign object, no property that has a part of a state recognized by the Supreme Council as an aggressor state and a state-occupied state. This includes legislation included in the FATF in the list of non-cooperational states in the area of anti-money-laundering. Finally, the state and material reserves and the new Law on State Reserves cannot work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u188	Please give the floor to the national deputy Slavic Antonini Kerimovni, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u189	Please pass the word to Shevchenk Eugenia Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u190	Please, Eugene Volodymyrovich Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Eugene Shevchenko, "Resurrection of Ukraine". Mr. Deputy Minister Fomenco Igor Aleksandrovich, to tell you the truth to my colleagues, we have considered this bill on the Economic Committee, closing our eyes because it has many shortcomings and risks. We accepted it, hoping that you had promised us to change it before reading it. First of all, you promised us people's deputies a financial and economic calculation that takes into account the transitional balances. You didn't even do that, because when you look at the calculations, it's like they're betting 9 billion dollars, the next year they're just being stolen and nothing goes wrong, it can't be like that. Second of all, do you remember what we talked to you about why the S.H.I.E.L.D. was involved in this law? We've been fighting to keep the economics out, you're betting again. First of all, it's from a legal point of view. The operation of the BSS is carried out by other laws, not by economic laws. You promised us that we'd change it to a second reading. So I urge my colleagues to support the bill. The "Delivery of Ukraine" group will support it, but with the amendment that you will fulfill your commitments to the economic committee deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u192	Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, after which we vote in favour of the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u193	Sobolje, Fatherland. Wake up, my friends. What was this bill about, and what did we expect from the Ministry of Economics? One is that all purchases into the state or mobilization reserve are made by the manufacturer, not the intermediary. Do you see this norm in this law? None. What else did we expect from this bill? So that the order of control is immediately stated. What do we get instead? Dozens, if not hundreds, of objects that will be stored in their territory. Still who's gonna control it, I want to see it? Now, my colleague in Cuba has proposed a standard that is somehow not available in this bill for first reading: that it cannot be an aggressor country. And if this is an enterprise located in the territory of the European Union where the sanctions are imposed, because it cooperates with the aggressor country, it can keep it? You'll never find one. In my opinion, it's a bill that's completely inconvenient. Those who say it can be corrected for second reading cannot. Here you have to set standards that will be completely different. That's why it's a big offer. Learn the experience of the country of Romania, which believed during the first world war of Russia, and passed on its gold currency. For over a hundred years, they have been tried for it and cannot take it away. Who will be judged by our government, I don't know. We won't vote for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, we're done. Please, Julia Klimenko. And after that, we vote, dear colleagues. We're just voting, I'm sorry, I said, in general, not in general, as a basis. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, the bill. The state reserve has long been subject to reform, and a bill is needed. He is imperfect and needs to be refined into a second reading, but he is. It can be voted in the first reading. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the issue of the state reserve is within the 20 largest corruption schemes in Ukraine. It does not wash millions, it washes tens of billions a year through fuel, grain, rats, and so forth. I therefore call on the relevant committee not only to file and correct it for second reading but to conduct normal audits and to listen to the state reserve. Where were our reserves for the beginning of the war? Why did we enter with no grain, no fuel, no drugs, no gas and everything that should be in the state reserve? The state reserve turned out to be empty at the moment of full-scale war, even though the war has been going on since the 14th. Please conduct the hearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote, take your seats. I propose that the draft State Reserve Act (registration No. 9079) be adopted as a basis for the development of the provisions in accordance with part one of the first article of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:49:34]] For 268. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. We have further agreed on procedural decision 9165, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2023 on the use of the funds of the State Fund for Regional Development. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the session: 9165. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:50:13]] For 283 Decision taken. I propose to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills by half. This is for Bill 9165. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:50:43]] For 281 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill, 9046, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on complete general secondary education on compulsory learning outcomes. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:51:18]] For 310 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:51:39]] For 268. Decision taken. Please two in, two in, and two in, against immediately or without discussion? Come on, Arthur Volodymyrovich, two minutes. Well, there'll be factions. All right, then: two in, two in, two in. Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u197	Please pass the word to Natalia Pipi.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u198	Natalia Pippa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u199	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, the bill very much invites everyone to support it. This bill says that each of our graduates will have four classes in the 11th grade, as well as a DPA in the 4th and 9th. I'll explain. It will be. Today, there is a compulsory language and mathematics, and the history of Ukraine is added, for everyone in this country, unfortunately, has felt the great problem that we did not know and some still do not know their history well and does not understand how unique and powerful and ancient the State of Ukraine is. So this is what will happen, and it will become a compulsory object. And it will also be necessary to give up an object in a foreign language other than the language of the aggressor State. So it is that as a country that is preparing to join the European Union and also that has long declared its movement in NATO, it will bring us closer to the global world and enable us to be competitive players in the international market and in the labour market and in the economy. It'll turn it in. For the second reading, the idea is to fix the DPA in 4th grade not to include the history of Ukraine, because there is no such thing in primary school. This is already supported by virtually most factions. And I congratulate you on what that decision is. It's very important that we implement it so that our children can catch up and learn in these extremely difficult conditions, and have a childhood. We need to discuss whether to accept this bill, but how to accept it so that our children have strong mental health, good knowledge, and habits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u200	Please, Nesterenko. Is that what I understand, Bujansky? Please, Bujansky Maxim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u201	Fellow dignitaries, it is wonderful that history has been added to the mandatory state summary test. But it's bad that the time machine hasn't been invented yet. And when children are required to pass the final examination of history in the fourth grade and are taught only in the fifth grade, it will be very difficult to explain to their parents how we missed it in the first reading and why we should correct it in front of the second. I don't see any difficulty here with going back to the first, doing the right thing, and then taking it. Because it's really a technical mistake, but we're gonna look bad. I won't support it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u202	Please give the word to Ion's Mary Mikolayevna, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Windman, that's what I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u203	Please, Vitarovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u204	Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, this bill is called upon to solve two serious problems caused by the leadership of the Ministry of Education in Scarlett times. First, to return to Ukrainian schools a full-fledged state summary appraisal, which was cancelled three years ago under SOVID, and still unrenewable. I hope today both the MON and the education committee, and most in this room realize that the DPA should be returned to Ukrainian schools by 2024. Secondly, it is very important for me, as co-author of this bill, that it provides for every student of the U.S.A.'s history to be composed. Because the current situation, when history is thrown away as a mandatory object from the cartoon, and there is no separate DPA at all, is unacceptable. Today's war is primarily an identity war, so an exam from Ukraine's history is not just an assessment of school knowledge, but a kind of citizenship exam that cannot be optional. "European Solidarity" supports this bill in the first reading. Yeah, let's fix these mistakes that, unfortunately, got caught up in this project, I don't see a big problem with that. We hope that this bill will be one step towards systematic changes in education after the three-year degradation that most of us in this room have caused by pressing 226 buttons for Minister Scarlett. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u206	Please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Please, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u207	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, surely, the importance of this law is not only in improving the educational process, in our view, but equally important is the political and educational aspect. The history of the home country, the Fatherland is the beginning of the formation of a worldview, a patriotic worldview, a strong and persuasive man who places values above the price, a spiritual wealth above the material benefits. It was on the values of today’s modern - day civilization that Europe has been building for over five centuries. We are certainly members of this great family and we are paying, and we are witnessing it at the highest price -- the price of our best sons and daughters. Today's terrible war, which is already on a scale beyond World War II, is not only the sacred liberation war of the Ukrainian people against the plague of the 21st century of racism, but also the war of world views, the worldview of the civilized world and the medieval "Russian world". In this war, both we Ukrainians and our allies — dozens of countries — will surely win. The message is the incredible courage and patriotism of our heroes, the Armed Forces, the resilience and determination of the Ukrainian people, the strong support of friends. And here, it's very important for us to consolidate in our educational work the psychology of the victorious patriots and do so, as the classic said, from a young age, to be proud of our heroic history and, above all, to be worthy of the feat and glory of our parents. That's why we have to study history. We vote yes. For the second reading, work should be done on taking into account individual minor comments. We're voting for it, guys!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u208	Please, Bacon still, and after that, we'll vote. Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u209	Of course, everyone should know the history of his people. Today, when our bravest are winning on the fronts, you and I see how little knowledge of history has allowed us to manipulate the minds of different people in different spheres. So history is what every Ukrainian should know. It's actually going to cement our nation, and it's going to give future Ukrainians who are together, and it's going to give them the opportunity to never let anyone on the side of their brain wash. So I urge the House to support this bill so that every young Ukrainian knows the history and the test of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, thank you. We've concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear friends, please prepare. I propose to adopt the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on complete general secondary education on compulsory educational outcomes (registration number 9046). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:01:11]] For 303 Decision taken. Next, dear colleagues. Bill 9061, 9062. We agreed that there is agreement to accept as a whole. Let's talk about the first one. We don't discuss the second one, we vote immediately. Do you have a deal, colleagues? Then I'm going to put the bill into the agenda of the day, so let's immediately include 9061, 9062. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:01:54]] For 312 Decision taken. Let's go to 9061, this is the draft Act amending Chapter XX, Section 2, Transitional Provisions, of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Tax Exemption from Tax Added Transactions in Supply/Importation of Goods for Security and Defence During Wartime. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:02:33]] For 282 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-again, right? Let's write it down: two for, two for, and we'll go to the vote later. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of the Road Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u211	Please pass the word to Getmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u212	Please, Danilo Alexanderovich the Getmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u213	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two laws that are binding on each other are very important. What are these bills about? These bills are designed to balance the tax status of military goods produced within the customs territory of Ukraine with those imported into the customs territory of Ukraine. Today, other goods are exempt from VAT when imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, and if they are manufactured by our manufacturers, they are actually subject to VAT because all of them come from VAT. And while you and I need to support the domestic industry, the defence and industrial complex, we're actually putting it in an unequal position with foreigners. In fact, the bill is designed to remedy this flaw. In addition, we are granting this bill aid for goods, for software that is provided for defence purposes. Not just for goods, but for software, it's also very important. And in addition, we also exempt from any taxes those military supplies that move across the customs border of Ukraine in the processing regime, that is, when our military equipment is supplied outside the customs territory of Ukraine for repair and then comes back. Bills are very necessary. Bills are very much needed by the military. Bills are very much needed by our defence and industrial complex. We examined them very deeply on the committee and prepared them to become effective. So I ask the Hall to support these bills both on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u214	Thank you. Please, the Cubans, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u215	Mr. Head, I'd like to give the floor to Nina Petrovna Jujanini. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u216	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, I may surprise someone, but for more than a year, as the Ministry of Defense has been giving its initiatives, there have been at least five attempts, and to the Ministry of Finance, and to me personally, I have seen colleagues from other national deputies, but these initiatives have not even been considered. So I really thank the people's MP for taking the initiative, and I've walked around with my legs and I've shown that these standards are essential to our defenses, even if we have some kind of process of formation right now. It is surprising, then, that you often do not trust yourself. So once again, it's been over a year for us to try to expand the Ministry of Defense again, to list the goods they need, to list the benefits we need to protect ourselves, we've been looking at in the hall. Unfortunately, you should note that the Ministry of Defence has already made several attempts to submit to the Cabinet of Ministers to approve the list of goods and services that are provided by commercial organizations so that these costs and the cost of these goods will not be taxed at the expense of 18 percent of the annual accounts. Do you think you've accepted this standard? No, it's not. Taxpayers have already filed declarations for 2022, and the visa is there now. That is, people who voluntarily assist the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other formations with this help, if it is more than 4 percent of the tax revenue of the previous year, have to pay taxes. That's how you work. So instead of secondary laws, we had to look at this and the other here a long time ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u218	Please, Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u219	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, in fact, there is a logical question: Why is it so late? But they say it's better late than never. But, indeed, the Ucroborprom system, the entire defence complex of our nation, which needs all the ingredients and not just moves them across customs borders, needs the support of the state today. And it's very important that such a bill is being considered in the session room today. The "Fatherland" faction at its meeting considered some of the nuances in this bill and unfortunately failed to take them into consideration. But we will not block, and we believe that we must be approved in the first reading and in general in order to help the defence sector today supply through the customs border of Ukraine the goods, services, software needed today to defend. It is also very important that this bill supports our Ukrainian producer, for it is the last year of widespread aggression, a nine - year war, that says that domestic production can be expanded in such extreme conditions as war. As a result, we are voting on the basis and in general, and we are helping the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Praise the Armed Forces! And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u220	Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, after that we vote. Vote. Oh, it'll still be the Voice. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u221	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor. We understand what we're about to vote on. So this is just the case where less talk is needed, and when you understand the responsibility, vote quickly, and ask for the law to be signed as soon as possible. So I urge all of you to unite. Less talk and a quick vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u222	Please, from Voice who, show me. Vasilchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, obviously we will vote in favour of these two related bills, they are extremely important to our defense industry, so that we can meet the needs of the defence forces more quickly. But what I would like to say is that it is equally important to move on and free yourself from the import VAT and the customs that are used to produce BPLA for the production of drones. This sector is now actively developing in Ukraine. We all know how important drones are in defense of the country. So I'm asking my colleagues from my committee and representatives from the Ministry of Finance to get us to agree more quickly on this exclusive list of BPLAs, and we've managed to make effective drone production in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u224	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. I want to remind you, as we agreed, we immediately vote on this and then we vote on the next bill, and we vote as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, on the basis and as a whole. Please take your seats. I propose to adopt the draft Amendments Act to Chapter XX, Subsection 2, Transitional Provisions, of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Tax Exemption from Tax Added Transactions in Supply/Importation of Goods for Security and Defence during Wartime. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:12:18]] For 315 Decision taken. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law amending Chapter XX, Section XX, Transitional Provisions, of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Tax Exemption from Taxes on Added Costs of Supply/Importation of Safety and Defence Goods during Wartime (Registration No. 9061). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:12:59]] For 317 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next, we agreed, 9062. This is a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of goods for security and defence purposes during the war period. I immediately propose to include in the agenda of the day's session bill registration number 9062. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:13:42]] For 313 Decision taken. Next. I propose to adopt Bill 9062 as the basis. This is a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of goods for security and defence purposes during the war period. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:14:12]] For 319 Decision taken. I also propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on the characteristics of imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of goods for security and defence purposes during the war period (Registration No. 9062). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:14:46]] For 316 Decision taken. The laws were adopted in general: 9061, 9062. The next bill is the first reading. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Post Office Act (registration number 8280). I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies are to be voted on. [[15:15:24]] For 274 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need for discussion, or can we vote? We can vote, Arthur, right? I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Post Office Act (registration No. 8280). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:16:03]] For 283 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question, the next bill, we also agreed without discussion, 7473-d. It's a second reading, no one's going to fix it. This is a draft law amending some legislation to simplify access to free legal aid. So I'm proposing to accept, in the second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, bill number 7473-d. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:16:49]] For 308. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 8138. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Investment Projects with Significant Investments in Ukraine. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies please vote on Bill 8138. Please vote. [[15:17:21]] For 262 Decision taken. Can we not discuss this, colleagues? No, no, then please sign in: two for, two for, against, honourable colleagues, please. Please, Arjev Vladimir Igorovic, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u225	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u226	Hot plate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u227	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, well, it's another bill to improve the investment climate in our country. Remember, at the dawn of our office, we had a bill on "investment babysitters," where are they? Why have we forgotten this subject? We're going to come up with a new one, and that's how we're going to help investment. Every person in Ukraine realizes that today helping investment is the key to winning this war. Without victory and as soon as possible what investments, what laws, what will they do? And so the main thing is, we've just made a contribution to the investment climate, and I want to thank all the colleagues who voted to return 30,000 dollars to the Ukrainian military, the police, the ten-year-olds wherever they are, because both in Lviv and in Odessa and in Kiev, they're defending Ukraine. And of course, for those on the front line, 100,000 dollars, that's just the way it's supposed to be. This is a contribution to the state's investment climate, this is a contribution to our victory. Another contribution is to stop terrorizing our own business, to stop making these proposals about tax evasion, about new checks, all this hehtmanism that we're going to have to stop, and then we're going to have to stop, and then we're going to have an investment climate. And without that, no laws, no babysitters will help anything. It's not going to be a Ukrainian economy, it's going to be a baby with seven babysitters without eyes. And when we win, if we support our own entrepreneurs, we don't skin off them, we don't have to give everyone who works today a job order, then we're going to win. Hail ZSU! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u228	Please, Stepa Sergey Sergiyyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u229	Please pass the word to Igor Marchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u230	Igor Marchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u231	It's actually a common rhetoric of our colleagues, but it has nothing to do with the issues that our bill, I think, is more precisely a government bill that we support and raise. First of all, we are working on improving the investment climate in our country. We've already had a completely positive experience since the 21st year, which is what investors with significant investments need, so let's, I would say, despite the rhetoric about our victory, of course, this is our key goal and everyone who's here is doing their best to support positive changes in our legislation that will help us improve our investment climate and involve Ukrainian and foreign investors here. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u232	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, the "Fatherland" faction. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, this is a very well-known "investment" bill, you remember it well. I want to remind you already as a person who has full economic education, that the key principle of building a working efficient economy is that it is a market, a market where market participants all have the same working conditions. It's an axiom that no one's replacing. If special taxation systems are created, they are for special activities that are unique. Maybe it's scientific research stuff, maybe making some kind of product that's only made unique in this business. Well, you can't build different tax platforms inside the country, where people can't, manufacturers, entrepreneurs can't compete with each other. I'll give you an example. See, there were 30 million inputs, this is the entry limit, which 30 million invests from all taxes to the date, the full offshore zone. Now they're down to 12 million and they're talking about a full offshore area, 12 million dollars of investment. And let's see, if a person invested 11 million 800,000 and produces the same product as the one that invested 12 million, let's say they're not going to be competitors in either the external market or the internal market. In fact, we leave only those who enter these offshore zones and others who are not competitors, they will die. You can't have these laws in the country, it's completely damaging the competitive environment. I ask you to abstain from voting, and this law needs to be repealed, and it is destroying Ukraine's economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u234	Please follow the Slavic Antonina Kerimovna, the deputy group "Resurrection of Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Antonino Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u235	I'd like to give the floor to Oleg Voronka.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u236	Oleg Voronko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u237	Good afternoon! Oleg Voronko, MP's "Delivery of Ukraine." Dear colleagues, one of the main tasks for both parliament and executive authorities today is to increase the investment attractiveness of Ukraine. First of all, the state must provide strong and effective support for investment projects with significant investments. The bill is designed to improve this process. Formal barriers that deter investors need to be removed, but additional incentives should be put in place to implement new projects. The proposed form of State support for partial compensation for the cost of construction of adjacent objects is one of them. The project also contains a number of other interesting innovations. Investments will allow for the development of the Ukrainian real sector, the creation of new jobs, the development of the necessary infrastructure, and sustained economic growth. We must now prepare a normative base that will become a trampoline after the military development of our nation. The Ukraine Recovery Group is in favour of improving the climate, so it supports the government's bill on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u238	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking you to take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I propose to adopt the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Investment Projects with Significant Investments in Ukraine (Registration No. 8138). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:26:31]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, the next bill, we agreed, not to discuss it. So I immediately propose, this is Bill 8216, to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the harmonization of the competitive procedure for the appointment of directors of municipal cultural institutions and the establishment of a basic network of cultural institutions (Registration No. 8216). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:27:12]] For 282 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please don't leave. I'm asking the faction leaders and groups right now, we've agreed on the Conciliation Council that if we have a time limit, we'll gather and determine what drafts of the following days we can raise today in order to vote. I need you to step up, turn five minutes, and sit down, and move on. I mean, if you agreed, then I'll read it to you, dear colleagues. There is now agreement without discussion to accept 8365 – this is a draft law amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on Vocational (Professional) Education on specific aspects of the licensing procedure. Without discussion, adopting 5695 is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of domestic workers. Having discussed the adoption of 0181 – draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the order of crossing the Ukrainian-Russian state border by residents of the border regions of Ukraine and the Russian Federation. Without discussion, the adoption of 0151 is a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova amending the Free Trade Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova since 13 November 2003. Also with discussion 0179, it is a draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on cooperation in the field of technical protection of information and the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the amendment of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on cooperation in the field of technical protection of information signed in Minsk on 22 January 2023. And yet without discussion, accepting ratifications 0180, 0185 is where ratification is, and 0194 is also a way out of contracts. Dear colleagues, did I say everything right? So, please, let's get right to the vote. First, we agreed without discussion. I therefore propose to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft law amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Act on Vocational (Professional) Education on certain aspects of the licensing procedure (registration number of Bill 8365). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:29:52]] For 280 Decision taken. I propose to adopt draft Law 8365 as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:30:16.]] For 285 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on Vocational (Professional) Education on Certain Aspects of the License Procedure (registration number of Bill 8365) as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:30:52]] For 284 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. The next bill is not discussed either, it's 5695. I immediately propose to adopt a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of domestic workers. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:31:30.]] For 262 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next. We have a discussion of 0182. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. 0181, sorry, 0181. I propose to consider the draft Law 0181 as a simplified procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:32:05]] For 259. Decision taken. I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Dear colleagues, please don't break up, two people just signed up. Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, that's how I understand Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, the political party "European Solidarity", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, it is clear that there is no reason for the Russians to sit in Ukraine as long as the occupying forces are shooting at Ukrainian territory every day, killing Ukrainians. But we have a very big problem on this issue, because for the Ukrainian authorities, unfortunately, there's a list of good Russians that are just being accepted here, you know, with cows. We want to ask the Office of the President, we want to ask the Minister of Culture what is Russian propagandaist Kremlin Eugenia Albatz doing here, who is not just a friend of Simonyans, but justifies the war in Ukraine, and now she's gastrosing Ukraine. What we want to ask is what is director Alexander Molochnikov doing here, who, in a Russian-broken Butchi, makes a film about Ukrainian children and makes a cast where he doesn't say he's a Russian director. We want to ask what court it is that brought back today to the air of the Ukrainian TV channels "Switts", which in fact not only are gastropolising the occupied Crimea, but also justifying aggression. So, if you'll excuse me, you can't use one hand to say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no." This has to be done. It is also very important that we talk about how border areas are provided today. We have a lot of signals from border areas, from border guards that they need more weapons today, more technology. And we welcome today's vote by which we, the 277 members of the Supreme Council, have returned 30,000 to the border guards, have returned 30,000 today to all the Armed Forces of Ukraine, all those who deserve it. Mr. Zelensky, Mr. President, we are waiting for this important bill to be signed as soon as possible. We thank all the factions and those servants that.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, please, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u241	Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished national MPs, the "Trust" MPs will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u242	Thank you, Your Honor. Then we prepare for the vote, ask the national deputies to prepare. I propose to accept as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the procedure for crossing the Ukrainian-Russian state border by residents of the border regions of Ukraine and the Russian Federation. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:35:45.]] For 283 Decision taken. The next is the draft of the Law on, we are not discussing it, 0151. I therefore immediately propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova amending the Free Trade Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova since 13 November 2003 (registration No. 0151). Ready to vote? May I have the people's deputies vote? [[15:36:30.]] For 290 Decision taken. Next bill under discussion. Or perhaps without discussion, colleagues? No, it's not. Okay. This Decision Then I ask you to vote in favour of this issue for a reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:36:59]] For the 250. Decision taken. Please sign up: two in, two in. And then we're voting this one, and we're still not talking about three more, and today we're taking a break. Please, Pavlovsky National Deputy Peter Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u243	Colleagues, I propose to vote for the proposal and support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u244	Thank you. Please, Kubi Stepan Ivanovich, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u245	Mr. Head, may I have a word with the Potter of Alexia?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u246	Please, Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u247	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, someone can explain to me the very right decision to denunciation from Belarus, it's clear that today it's an occupied state, that it's occupied by Putin's territory, that the Lukashenko regime is a puppet regime, but please explain to me why we still have an ambassador to Minsk. Why is the Ukrainian ambassador still in Belarus after 13 months of death, killing people in Kiev, Butchi, Irpine, Gostomel? How could it be that today our heads of Belarus have sparklers, S-300, Iranian drones, and we have ambassadors there. What's he doing there, someone can explain it? I call upon the leadership of the Supreme Council, there is a draft decision in the Supreme Council on the authorship of the Interfractional Union for Democratic Belarus, where almost all the factions of Parliament, including the ruling party "Slut of the People" -- the authors, please take it out. Let's say Billorus is occupied, let's say Lukashenko is a roadie, that it's his puppet, that it's a person who's supposed to be with him in The Hague. And he also needs a warrant to be issued against him, and no conversations with him, no ambassadors. Why are we doing this, why are we giving this lattice to this bastard, this potato Führer, who's trying to climb through this lair and get his legitimacy back? It's got to be Belarus. The lukashenko regime must be condemned, things called their names. And once again, I welcome all of us back to the military, and they deserve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u248	Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Nemira Grigori Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u249	Gregory Nemira, faction of Fatherland. My colleagues, I've spoken on this subject once before, but once again I would like to draw your attention and attention to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Today we're denunciationing the deal, but from Belarus. I mean, do you know how many such agreements are still in place? About a hundred agreements between Ukraine and Belarus remain valid. Today it will also be proposed or already proposed to denounce agreements under the SND and bilateral agreements with Russia. Since March last year, the Supreme Council has come out, and it has denounced 75 such agreements. And you know how many such deals there are with the Russian Federation right now? About 300. About 200 in SND. So once again, I'm calling on a colleague from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not to prepare the government for five a month, but to make it clear that we can't have about 200 treaties with the aggressor country during the second year of the war. So I urge you to support this bill. But without delay making sure that nothing binds us in terms of legal instruments, bilateral agreements with Russia, but also within the framework of the SND. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-04-10-m0.u250	Thank you. You know, you're absolutely right, and we had communication with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they're now making a checker of all the contracts, because it's very important that it doesn't damage Ukraine in the first place. And then we're going to do a diplomatic day in the Supreme Council, and we're denunciation there all the things that Ukraine doesn't need. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. I therefore propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical legal amendments, the draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of Belarus on cooperation in the field of technical protection of information and the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the amendment of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Office of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of technical protection of information signed in Minsk on 22 January 2003 (registration number of the draft Law 0179). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:42:59]] For 288 Decision taken. Then there are three bills without discussion, so I'm just going to read it, and we're going to vote. Honorable Colleagues 0180. I propose to adopt the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Qatar amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Qatar on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes (Registration No. 0180). Are you willing to vote on the basis and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:43:50]] For 293 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next 0185. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft law on the withdrawal from the Agreement on the Implementation of Harmonized Policies in the Definition of Transport Tariffs (registration No. 0185). People's deputies, please vote. [[15:44:26]] For 288 Decision taken. And a final bill. We don't have a discussion either. 0194. I propose to adopt, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft law on the withdrawal of Ukraine from the Protocol on the Approval of the Order of Organization and Joint Anti-Terrorism Measures in the Areas of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States (Registration No. 0194). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:45:10]] For 293 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Well, the list of issues that was previously agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, we passed. The agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. You will be informed of the time and place of its continuation. I'll remind you not to spread information about its beginning. We believe in the power of defense of Ukraine. We continue to work together to win. And the glory of Ukraine!
