ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u1	Glory be to Ukraine, fellows of honor! Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask everyone to take their seats. We're having a guest performance tonight. And before that, I'm not starting ours yet. I'm not continuing our session, but I'm simply asking you to sit down and show proper respect for the guest, not to walk around, not to create any disorder in the room. Do you have a deal, colleagues? I think it's the right approach to allow us to show a proper level of respect for our guests. You got a deal, guys? Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. Today, the delegation of the Republic of Latvia, headed by Mr. Edwards Smiltens, is in the Hall of Meetings of the Supreme Council. Let us applaud the distinguished Latvian delegation. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress the need for unwavering compliance with the security rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to disseminate information about the opening of the plenary session, its running and the decisions that have been taken in Parliament more than an hour after our work has been completed. I also ask all Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the government, to take responsibility for ensuring the security of the single legislative body of our state. Dear colleagues, in the event of air anxiety, we will announce a recess in the plenary session, and we will have to move to safe places according to the cloaking scheme that is placed in the workplace of each of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in a single plenary session. So today, according to our resolution on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call during the eighth session in the context of the state of war and the proposals of the Conciliative Council of Deputies and Groups, we continue our plenary session. Let's start with good parliamentary tradition by doing the State Hymn of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen of the people of Ukraine, today is the 323rd day of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against our nation and the Ukrainian people. Last year was a very difficult year for each of us, but we Ukrainians have demonstrated to the whole world exceptional courage and self-reliance in protecting our home land and democratic values, as well as great unity, unity and mutual support in everyday work and struggle. We believe and hope that together we will make 2023 a year of Ukrainian victory. Unfortunately, every day we lose our heroes and heroes as well as our peaceful compatriots because of the subjugation of Russian aggression. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the defenders and protectors who gave their lives for the freedom and independence of Ukraine. Everlasting honor and glory to fallen heroes! Consider, too, all peaceful citizens who were innocently killed by Russian executioners. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, Mr. Speaker, allow me to express, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the utmost gratitude to the Latvian people, to the Latvian Parliament and to you personally for the firm and constant support of Ukraine's sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. Our nations have traditionally had friendly relations, and since 2014, with the beginning of Russian armed aggression, they have become even stronger. Latvia is among the leaders in support of Ukraine, actively and consistently advocates Ukraine's membership in the European Union and NATO. The Latvian Parliament recognized the Russian Federation as a sponsor of terrorism and the crimes it commits in Ukraine as a genocide of the Ukrainian people. We are very grateful to Latvia for providing shelter, for supporting the Ukrainians who were forced to leave their homes through the war, and for treating and rehabilitating the wounded defenders and defenders of Ukraine. Standing side by side with us, your country continues to provide Ukraine with essential military support, including military equipment, weapons, ammunition, tents, winter clothes and shoes, military equipment and ammunition. We are immensely grateful to our friendly Latvia for its support and help, and we are proud to have such reliable friends. Ladies and gentlemen, the speaker of the Fair of the Republic of Latvia, Mr. Edwards Smiltens, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable deputies! [[Applause]] Heroic people of Ukraine, brothers and sisters of Ukraine! [[Applause]] It is an honor to address you today on behalf of the Trade Fair of Latvia. For all the Latvian people at this difficult time, when Ukraine is fighting for the entire civilized world that opposes Russian aggression, we, the Latvians, are with you. [[Applause]] As early as February 14, last year, at 12 o'clock, I had the privilege of taking part in the raising of the flag of Ukraine in Riga, which was the beginning of the week of Ukraine's support. The next morning the flag of Ukraine was majoring all over Latvia. For us, the war started in 2014, and we've been supporting you ever since. [[Applause]] It's worth noting that maybe at this historic moment of the century, right now, the Soviet Union is actually breaking up. He falls down in front of us in the battlefield of Ukraine and in our hearts geopolitically and among the people. [[Applause]] It has been destroyed in the symbolic time of the century since the creation of the Soviet Union, as well as the bloodthirsty Russian dictator has imagined to be revived in a more severe form by opening the gates of hell in Ukraine. The closing of these gates together is the duty of the entire civilized world. [[Applause]] Dear Ukrainians! With your heroism, you have accomplished an impossible – a real rebirth in the battlefield and by sending so powerful a thrust of courage and determination that it reaches every corner of the free world, reaching the hearts of billions of people. [[Applause]] He developed a mist of illusion and brought about the unprecedented wave of solidarity and cooperation of people, and reminded our peoples of the very value of our freedom, our independence and our democracy. In the struggle for these values, you have identified a clear line of the front by taking action against the greatest evil that broke out in the 21st century, the Persian Russia. [[Applause]] A regime that is saturated with Nazism and evil that can no longer be worth destroying values, destroying, robbing, killing, raping, and enslavement. [[Applause]] A regime that has apparently turned into a terrorist organization that is gambling down overcrowded railway stations, shops, and housing on an industrial scale. This power of yours has allowed us at home to do what has been left behind for years, and to walk away from the imperialist influence of the neighbor, from the dark burden of the past, and to eliminate the symbols of occupation, by gaining true freedom and by allowing us to unite in order to support Ukraine. [[Applause]] Therefore, I would like to stress in particular the extremely broad solidarity and involvement of our people. Every day there's a lot of help coming from Latvia, and it certainly shows that it's not just about politics or international relations, it's about something much more important -- about what comes from the hearts of people, from the very foundations of humanity, about the deep shared values of knowing that we are well aware that there is good, where there is evil, where there is truth, and where lies. And people in Latvia know that very well. [[Applause]] On February 23rd, 17th, the day before Russia's full-scale invasion, you received the first shipment of military aid from Latvia, Stinger, which became decisive for Kiev's defense. [[Applause]] According to estimates of the annual gross product for today, we are among the world’s military leaders. [[Applause]] Since the beginning of Russian military aggression, Latvians have contributed millions of euros of support that continue to come now. [[Applause]] Dear friends, and tomorrow the number of Twitter Convoys donated to the car will reach thousands. [[Applause]] Our people are proud to help you both here and by trying to create a little sense of home for those Ukrainians who were forced to leave their homes because of the war and find shelter on our land. That's why I'm speaking to you in Ukrainian. [[Applause]] I speak to you in Ukrainian, showing respect for your nation and language, as well as for the Ukrainians who have been studying the Latvian language in Latvia since the first days and who are already addressing me as "Labdien," which means "Good afternoon!"".. [[Applause]] Latvia stands firm for the international isolation of Russia, the strengthening of sanctions, and Russia’s commitment to responsibility. It is absolutely necessary to define the legal boundaries for the punishment of Russian war criminals, confiscation and use of Russian oligarchs' frozen funds in the reconstruction of Ukraine. It is absolutely necessary not to allow Russia to restore its military capabilities, to prevent history from repeating itself, and to prevent new aggression. [[Applause]] Honorable colleagues, the responsibility of the entire civilized world, is to prove that the world must have the power of law, not the right to power. It's not the right to force, it's the right to power. [[Applause]] So that evil will not be allowed to come back to life. In July, Latvia became the first state to apply to the UN International Court of Justice for third-party status in the Ukraine-Russia trial. We are among those who strongly support the idea of creating a tribunal over Russian aggression. President Egills Levits, President of Latvia, suggested that we take him to Riga. [[Applause]] Evil cannot remain unpunished. On August 11, last year, Sejm Latvia recognized Russia as a country that supports terrorism. [[Applause]] We have consistently advocated Ukraine's integration into the EU and NATO. We have no doubt about Ukraine’s membership of the Alliance of Euro-Atlantic Countries. [[Applause]] We rejoice in your every achievement and we mourn every death as our own loss. That is how true brotherhood is manifested. [[Applause]] Dear friends, we don't just see -- we feel, we don't just know -- we understand because we've lived this as a nation in our own history. This is the code of our nation, which we have in our blood, because we have also chosen our free state by blood and pain. Latvia will continue to provide political, military, financial, humanitarian and support to the people of Ukraine regardless of how long it will take and how much it will cost. [[Applause]] Our partners and I say in a clear and firm voice, "We won't get tired." [[Applause]] I want to reaffirm Latvia’s full support and solidarity with Ukraine and its people. This support is firm. [[Applause]] I know that alongside the flags of the countries of Europe, there will be a flag of an independent and prosperous Ukraine, which has already become a global symbol of freedom and courage. [[Applause]] Dear Ukrainians, you have already earned your place in Europe, which thanks to you will be free, strong, single, safe and prosperous. Dear Ukrainian friends, we will help you with everything we can. Latvia and Ukraine together, we will win for freedom, independence and democracy. Glory to Ukraine! [[Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go.]] Thank you very much, dear friends. Ukraine is above all else!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u3	Dear Mr. Speaker, I am not so perfectly fluent in Latvian, but I want to tell you on behalf of the entire Parliament of paldies -- thank you. [[Applause]] And I also have an obligation to learn far more than Labdies and Labvakar. Dear colleagues, let us once again thank the distinguished Mr. Speaker and the Latvian delegation for participating in the plenary session and for Ukraine's unreserved support and solidarity with the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed to give three minutes' time before the daytime agenda is discussed for speeches by MPs and their authorized representatives. Members of the MPs and groups, please sign up for the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u5	What registration? You probably don't know, we've been going on a nonstop session since early September, somewhere. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European." Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u6	Dear, brave, heroic Ukrainian people, dear colleagues! The first meeting of this year's Supreme Council of Ukraine, I think, brings us all together with one thought -- the thought of those heroes that today near Soledar, near Bahmut, at all other points of the front holding the Ukrainian sky, holding the front. And we are aware of the heavy cost of protecting every meter of Ukrainian territory today. And actually, strategically speaking, on the first day of this year's session, we have to draw those high goals that we have on our parliamentary front to help the Ukrainian army win. Of course, work on European integration and Euro-Atlantic integration must be brought together first in order to make it as quickly as possible. But in diplomacy, in inter-parliamentary activity, we have to do everything we can to catch up with the aggressor country in order to reinforce sanctions against the Russian Federation. And a criminal tribunal was set up for the criminal responsibility of the criminal, the killer of the Putin regime and all the Russians involved in Russian aggression. And when we talk about Ukrainians demanding responsibility today, we should also consider how sensitive the question of responsibility and solidarity is today. In fact, for our political team, when we mention the fighting that is now taking place near Soledar and Bahmut, it is very personal. There are now members of our party, including Alexander Pogrubiski, the deputy of the Kyiv City Council. And still against Alexander Progrebiski, a criminal case has been opened for allegedly assaulting Mr. Volosin's proscribed party. Let's ask, where's Volosin for 11 months? No one has seen him in the session room for a day at a time when the person accused of this attack in Soledar protects our right to be here. Similarly, there are dozens of members of this forbidden party in the running, and others, I mean, were involved in writing pseudo-manipulation political affairs: against General Marchenk – and not yet closed, against General Pavlovski – and still not closed, dozens of political cases about those people who are protecting the country today. The Ukrainians today, they demand justice, and our Solendar must be with you in the sessional.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u7	Thank you. Slavic Antonina Kerimovna, please, "Resurrection of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u8	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! The first plenary session in the new year is always about plans. And our plan, our goal and our common vision, and not only the battle of the Kurant, is victory. And each of us is doing everything we can to achieve it. Ukraine did not just unite; our energy was enough to consolidate the entire civilized world. Ukraine today is synonymous with integrity, courage and strength. First of all, it is represented by our protectors. But at the same time, it is also active in the back of our numerous volunteer initiatives, Ukrainian energy, medicine, education, utilities, and entrepreneurs. Just imagine, Ukrainian business has paid practically all the taxes planned in last year's tax budget. It's not just the support of the Ukrainian army -- it's an investment in the future of our country, future generations of Ukrainians. Visits by foreign representatives to Ukraine are not only a manifestation of the support of our people. Our friends want to feel the moral strength of the Ukrainian spirit, which is only strong. For example, the German Foreign Minister, Mrs. Berbok, who visited the unbreakable Kharkiv the other day, recently found this to be a few tens of miles from the Russian border. I would like to believe that such trips will be more frequent. The individual front is energetic. The whole country wanted to be left with no light, no heat, and no water. But we resisted. And every next massive attack has less effect. This is not because Russian weapons in theory have become less destructive — no. Our energy, our military, our diplomats, finally our partners in the world are working in a unique synergy. Every week, every month, we only improve our immunity. Just imagine, during the active phase of the war, the state is approaching a real restoration of Ukraine. At a recent government meeting, the Prime Minister stated that 110 billion dollars are already available from various sources for reconstruction. This is what our group has repeatedly claimed. Ukraine needs to start rebuilding now. They are convinced that the Supreme Council has every opportunity to strengthen the work of rebuilding our state. In particular, the "Deliverance of Ukraine" MP suggests that the legislative options be used more actively. We need to create a fund to rebuild and stimulate the development of regions and territories, as set out in Bill 8085. In order to restore domestic infrastructure, all the tools must be in place. We believe that in the new year, the Supreme Council will be no less effective than in 2022. So let's get to work and everything will be Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, "Platform for Life and Peace." Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u10	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! You know, during the Russian aggression, we need not only to win on the front but also to win on the inside, on the back, on our social front. Why do I say the social front and I'll explain it right away. Because social tranquillity in the state is a guarantee of stability and a guarantee that Ukrainians are unitedly supporting both the Armed Forces of Ukraine and supporting each other in these critical times. What do I mean? Today I would like to express my gratitude to our leadership of the Committee on Social Policy for Galina Mikolayovni. Because last time I spoke from this rostrum, I went to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the Committee on Social Policy, to pay attention to the sabotage of the Social Insurance Fund. Because there was just a bunch of organized people who, under the leadership of professional groups in Ukraine, had adopted a plan to sabotage the laws of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and break social benefits in January of this year. Fortunately, the law enforcement agencies, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, worked quickly. Today, one of the organizers of this sabotage is in WHO, and he has a bribe of 125 million dollars. And the Cabinet of Ministers made a very serious decision to put in place the Social Insurance Fund's liquidators. And now it's good news. On January 2, Ukraine’s Pension Fund, which merged the Social Insurance Fund, began to work. I'm reporting. To date, 170,000 insured persons — including those who were affected by production — have received all their social benefits at the proper time. In addition, hospital letters are kept in the state by letters of temporary incapacity, payments are made at the birth of a child, at birth, at the funeral of a person, that is, at the time and in full. And so the sabotage of these internal collaborators, he failed. Dear colleagues, among other things, we are continuing to reform the social sphere of Ukraine in a European way, and I am registering the Ukrainian law on the transfer of the unemployment fund to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. This will increase and bring to the European model social insurance that we have the only fund and payouts, and at the same time there will be the State Employment Service that will take care of these issues. So, my fellow Members, I would like to address you, thank the Ukrainian National Deputies for voting on this law, and once again we have confirmed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will do everything necessary for social stability in the state, however it pleases anyone. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u12	With the New Year and Christmas Christ! Christ was born! Dear community, dear voters! This year, we all understand, will be decisive in this war, so first of all we want to thank our international partners, who allow us to stand and fight every day. First of all, we want to thank the Republic of Poland, our Polish brothers, for yesterday's decision to give Ukraine Leopard tanks, they will help us win the Russians in the field of battle. But we need tanks and more. That's why we have to fight not only in a military way – we have to fight economically, and the world has to fight Russia economically, to get Russia economically every day. And we already know that Russia loses about $200 million every day because of the price restrictions on oil, and they're going to lose even more when they apply the oil sanctions of February 5. And these losses must be very significant for the Russian economy. We must conquer culturally, proving on all international sites that Russia's actions correspond to all the signs of Nazism and fascism in the 21st century. We support the right of the peoples of the Russian Federation to self-determination and we expect that such a wave of self-determination will be actively raised in Russia. We need to lock down with international partners all crimes and qualify, and prepare the international tribunal irrevocably. It is that no Russian criminal, beginning with President Putin and ending with a rank, will pass through an international tribunal. And we must cleanse ourselves in our own circle, in our own parliament. Therefore, our parliamentary group for the future, together with Parliamentary partners, other factions, insists that the Supreme Council of Ukraine immediately review the Bill 7424 in plenary session, which is a change to the Rules by which we will ban the visit of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to former members of the OPCW. And this is not just the removal of the mandate of Medvedchuk, Kozak, and Ko (and company). It took a year for this to happen in Parliament. It's too long to wait a year. The country cannot wait long for such steps of self - cleansing from the Ukrainian Parliament. So, friends, we had a wonderful speaker before, the speaker of the Latvian Seima, who gave his full address to us in the Ukrainian language. This is a lesson, including for many Ukrainian politicians, how to stand firm on Ukrainian principles and speak the national language. So we are fully in agreement with his statement, and we want to repeat it and say that, not the right to power, but the power of the truth, and the truth will prevail. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u13	Heroim Slava! Please, Mikhailuk Galina Olegovna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u14	Please give the floor to the national MP Maria Mezentsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u15	Please, Maria Mezenceva. Maria Sergiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u16	Thank you, Mr. Head. Congratulations, colleagues, on the new political season! You know, I was recently asked what the Ukrainian Parliament failed to do. I think last year we even overcame all our plans, and today's speech by our Latvian partners in our native Ukrainian language at a meeting of the Ukrainian Parliament, which never stopped for a day, voted more than 20-30 laws a week, all of which were almost related to the flag that is now adorning our hall, not in words, but in action. But I want to return, dear friends, to the priorities set by President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine before New Year's Eve. Of course, we have many challenges. We're saying that every civilian house, every hospital, every child that's been hit by a Russian missile that's released daily in the territory of our native Ukraine, is a war crime, and thousands of them. But this was preceded by the only major crime of aggression that Russia has been reiterating since 2014 throughout Ukraine today. And I emphasize, according to the UN, that not only Ukrainians have suffered these crimes, but friends -- 1.7 billion of the world's population in 94 countries. And when we mention the UN, does Russia rightly occupy its seat at the UN Security Council, which is called upon to resist aggression and war? So we repeat the priorities of our work. The creation of a special tribunal, a new court for punishing Putin’s crime of aggression and his graves. Priority number two. Compensation for every Ukrainian, Ukraine, who suffered. We have to defuse the assets of the Russian Federation, send them back to Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! We're working to win!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u17	Please, Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, please, "The Voice."
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Not in my usual role today, but I would like to welcome this meeting of judges with the fact that, in spite of the long-standing postponement, they have begun to serve as a judicial self-government and to implement those principles of judicial reform that have been submitted by the President and have been voted on, unfortunately, with postponement. But now the court is forming the Supreme Council of Justice, which is expected to unlock a lot of trials. Yesterday, as you know, five members of the High Council of Justice were elected. Yes, unfortunately, the Ethical Commission, in connection with wartime, did not show how these candidates responded, even then, to questions that are in the public eye about them. But as politicians, we have to respect the choice of judges, and we very much expect that this judge will not stop, and within the next two days, three members of the High Council of Justice will be elected, and the trial will be completely unlocked. At least three, it is desirable to completely shut down the warehouse from the judges. Of course, I would very much like to address the convention delegates, paying close attention to the biography. A huge request to pay attention to whether or not they suddenly have family candidates in the aggressor country. It's not a discrediting factor, of course, but it's an element of pressure that an aggressor country can exert on future members of the High Council of Justice. But any choice of judges we as politicians will welcome. Here the head of the profiling committee says that we already have seven members of the RDP with eight required. This, of course, is a huge achievement. At the same time, I would like to urge the newly elected members of the High Council of Justice to take up their duties, to start disciplinary conduct in those judges who are accused not only of bribery but also of violating judicial ethics, to appoint new judges, and in general to ensure that the judicial branch of authority, which is not to stop its work during the war, is fully operational. Let them choose what is best and let the High Council of Justice work actively. We'll support any choice of judges. But we urge them to unlock the work of the High Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u19	Please, Paul Andriovich Bakunec, "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u20	Christ Is Born! Greetings to you, Mr. Head, the Ukrainian Parliament, the entire Ukrainian people! I especially welcome the bravest Ukrainians on Christmas Day, who are now doing a great job on various fronts in the trenches, protecting our Ukraine. Yes, there has been a difficult war for many months in which our Ukrainian people heroically defend both their land and their important democratic European values. And of course, we owe our bravest to our defenders, who, in fact, show their courage to the entire world the heroism and character of the entire Ukrainian people. And of course, what we thank our partners today, and our closest neighbours, the Polish people, who, of course, have helped us before the war, during the war many help, who are now actually giving such an important weapon to our defenders. So we sincerely thank all the Ukrainian people, the Polish people, the governments and the presidents! But, honourable Parliament, in Ukrainian society, during these months of war, questions have been raised to us, to parliamentarians. Where are the determined actions of the Ukrainian Parliament to cut off the so - called Moscow Kremlin root, which has been working in Ukraine for many months? Because there is still a Moscow root in Ukraine, a Moscow church that has regularly imposed on our Ukrainians the idea of "the Russian world" over the past 30 years of independence. She needs to be cut off. People have questions about how to cut down these Kremlin propagandists who in social groups write the idea of "Russian peace" and still have Ukrainian passports. And society requires Parliament to take decisive action to cut off also people who hold positions in various authorities from the parties banned in Ukraine. Society is waiting, Parliament, for your determination, in a constitutional way, so that no one can then accuse, do the right thing and answer to all the Ukrainians. Praise our Armed Forces! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u21	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I invite the National Deputies to take their seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Did no one speak from you? And you didn't sign up, Julia Volodymyrna. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u22	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I want to welcome you both to New Year's and Christmas Christ's! And I would very much like this year -- the year that we all see as a year of victory, as a year of Ukraine's journey to the European Union and NATO -- this is a crucial, crucial year -- that we in Parliament change our approach and our declarations of unity at a time when Ukraine needs to be protected, not a declaration, but a reality; that all of our steps to protect Ukraine in Parliament be not a fairy tale, but a reality. And so I would like this House to adopt laws that strengthen the security of our army, which allow all of the methods that we have to defend Ukraine, but, at the same time, and protect the Ukrainians who today have no means of survival, who are barely surviving. And it is very painful to see when, instead of a union in Parliament today, it is planned to adopt a law, where in fact a part of Parliament will be removed from the adoption of European legislation, removed in a rough manner through a committee, the removal of deputies from the introduction of their rights to European laws. It is very painful when in this room, when we need to unite, things are taken directly opposite because it strengthens Ukraine's sovereignty when our national rights are granted to outsourcing outside Ukraine. It takes courage to stand firm, protect both Ukraine and our sovereignty. It is also very painful to see when laws are passed in the Supreme Council, not only for the protection of Ukraine and the Ukrainians, but also for the embezzlement of our resources, our national wealth, and including the humiliation of the rights of working people. I wish this hadn't happened in this new year, but we're opening the agenda and there's once again the corporation of Energoatom, reading the privatization of Energoatom and the profit of Energoatom, even without money, when you read, for example, Bill 5344, where people with disabilities have their last rights. I want to ask you why this eclectic? Our unity is needed both on the front and here in the hall to protect Ukrainian national interests and human rights, not lobbying what is convenient today, by covering up war. I really want things to change this year. Glory.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, we've finished our performances. People's deputies please take their seats. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable members of the People’s Republic of Ukraine are invited to make a signal vote prior to the commencement of the consideration of the issues. I remind you that it is necessary to hold down the sensor button, press the "Z" green button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the vote is over, that is, before the results appear on the board. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I invite you to take part in the sensory vote, because we are still voting on the bill. Please, sensory vote. Signal, I'm sorry, signal vote. Sensor-button signal. [[12:58:13]] For 246 246 in, 7 in, 3 in. Everything as usual. Don't write me about the green button, please, more who wants it. Thank you, Your Honor. Well, once again, I appeal to all the national MPs, the government representatives, to abide by the security rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not to spread information about the progress of the plenary session taken in Parliament before an hour after the end of our work. Dear friends, the list of questions you have been given, previously approved on the Conciliation Board, has been given to you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, we have the first five ratifications, we agree, we discuss one, and we vote the rest without discussion. So I'm going to announce a discussion, we're going into question 0171. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:31]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us write down immediately: two, two, against who wants to discuss, and then we vote five ratifications. Factions and groups please log in. Sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u24	Please, Fatherland, Cymbaluk. Restlessness, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u25	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Fatherland faction will support all five ratifications, although they do not apply to one subject: part is to the European Union, European integration, the second is to the humanitarian bloc and third, to the SND file. And I would like to focus your attention on the absurdity of the situation in which Parliament continues to be. This is the third time I've called your attention to this. Did you know that so far, Ukraine remains a party, a signatory, a participant in several dozen SND treaties and conventions? Do you know that when the war is over, Ukraine continues to be a party to a number of tens of treaties, conventions, SNDs? Do you know that next year, if all is well, Ukraine will start the preliminary negotiations on membership in the European Union? We know that next month the summit of Ukraine – the EU – will be held. And do you think it is normal for Ukraine to start moving to the EU with a huge uncut tail of commitments under the SND, which is part of the Russian Federation, Belarus, Armenia? Do you view this as a normal situation? So, Mr. Head, I think we should do everything we can to get Ukraine out of all the agreements under the SND before we begin our accession negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u26	Thank you. Please, Kisilov, "Resurrection." Which one of you?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u27	An alien. Request to pass on the word Igorovni the Comedian of Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u28	Please, Natalia. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, the ratification is clearly to be supported. Joining the relevant programme is the possibility for our country's health system to include a 5 billion-euro component within this European initiative. I emphasize that the program has shown itself effectively in the fight against the coronavirus. If we are not talking about certain diseases as a result of the war, this does not mean that there are no such diseases. This program will help: improving the availability of medicines, preventive measures, is a reliable response to the crisis thanks to the available resource, plus it is calculated on a medium term by 2027. Our joining the program will contribute to the integration of the Ukrainian health system with the European public. Parliament must therefore give green light to this law, and the parliamentary group "Delivery of Ukraine" will support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u30	Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u31	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman and Honorable Colleagues. Welcome to New Year's Eve, Christ's Christmas! A new victory for Ukraine in a year, I am convinced of this, a year of returning peace and stability to our country. We have a unique chance to become members of the European Union after the end of the war. And we have a chance not to do it in 10-20 years, but in 12-18 months, if we combine our efforts to do it. This is what I'm telling you as the person who, once again, was the greatest skeptic in this room about the possibility of Ukraine joining the European Union, and now as a person who is communicating with the leadership of many European countries who have doubtfully viewed our perspective on the European Union by February 24th, they are now talking about its reality. So I propose that we unite around these laws. This law is very balanced, right, it meets many of the requirements and standards of the European Union. We would like to see this law not only on paper but also on the real life of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u32	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. Maria Ionova, please, "European solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u33	Christ was born! Mr. Head, Your Honor's Presidium, Your Honor's colleagues! Ukraine is a European state. And we made this conscious choice in 2014 to the full, and that's why our advocates are now carrying the bloodiest, most severe, most expensive price for us to become part of the European Union and part of NATO. But we are reflecting this Russian aggression to protect European values of freedom and democracy. And the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to European norms and the ratification of different conventions are extremely important, and so our European Solidarity faction will support them. However, it is far more important to work under civilized European rules, confirming its own maturity and readiness to join the EU and NATO. Unfortunately, yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there was a precedent that disgraced Parliament and Ukraine when the committee overturned its own decision, December’s decision to include Peter Prashenko in a permanent delegation to South Africa. Opposition leaders with diplomatic experience, a wide range of international contacts, removed him from the delegation without giving any adequate or logical explanation. That's what unity looks like. And I realize that unfortunately, my performance won't show up on a single marathon. We also remember that Dusty was not allowed from the country to meet with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. And it's a small decision yesterday, it doesn't show up as a European Parliament. That is why I would urge and appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council to give him the commission to convene the committee immediately and to consider this issue without manipulation, to be guided by efficiency and result for the interests of Ukraine. Because our team has worked with both the state institutions and the non-governmental sector on the diplomatic front and will continue to work for the victory of Ukraine. Thank you. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the discussion has been concluded. We have concluded our discussion and are moving on to the decision - making process of five international acts. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, take your seats. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the EU4Health programme (registration No. 0171). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:08:42]] For 310 Decision taken. Next. I propose to accept as a basis and, as a whole, with the necessary technical legal amendments, the draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Marrakesh Treaty on the Ease of Access for Blind People, Persons with Visual Impairment or Other Restrictions on Disability to Accept Printed Information to Published Works (registration No. 0159). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:09:28]] For 317 Decision taken. The next 0162 is the draft Law on the withdrawal from the Agreement on the Settlement of Disputes involving Economic Activities. I propose that the draft Law (registration number 0162) be adopted on the basis of the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:10:14]] For 322 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next, the draft law on the withdrawal from the Convention on the Transfer of Persons with Mental Disorders for compulsory treatment (registration No. 0168). I propose to adopt this bill 0168 as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:10:58]] For 325 Decision taken. Another ratification is 0177, the draft Law on the Ratification of Agreement No. 2 in the form of an Exchange of Letters between Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland amending the Agreement on Political Cooperation, Free Trade and Strategic Partnership between Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (Registration No. 0177). I propose to accept as a whole the draft Law 0177 with the necessary technical and legal amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:52]] For 319 Decision taken. The next bill we have, we've agreed, without discussion, it's 3603. Well, that's the second reading, no one's going to make any amendments. Therefore, I immediately propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the Protection of the Rights and Interests of the Child if its parents are detained or detained (Registration No. 3603). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:12:41]] For 319 Decision taken. The next bill, too, we agreed, no discussion, 8294. This is a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on the priorities of science and technology and innovation. I'm proposing to include Bill 8294 in the agenda of the day. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:17]] For 319 Decision taken. I'm proposing to adopt Bill 8294 as the basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:42]] For 315 Decision taken. I propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on priority directions for the development of science and technology and innovation (registration No. 8294). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:14:15]] For 318 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two draft decrees continue to be disputed: one in the Hersonian region, the other in the Mikolai region. We agreed we'd talk about one thing. Besides "European Solidarity," is there anyone else who will insist on discussing it? Nobody. Then there's a proposal to give two minutes of "European Solidarity" and vote first and second. No objections? Then we move on to 8324, this is a draft decree for the execution by the head of the Jubilee Rural Military Administration of the Hersonian Region of the Hersson area of authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:15:13]] For 318 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[13:15:34]] For 292 Dear colleagues, two minutes is "European Solidarity", and we're voting on these two draft regulations. Arthur Volodymyrovich, which one of you? Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, the security situation in the Hersonian region is greatly deteriorating. An enemy whose heroic Ukrainian army broke out of Herson takes revenge and shoots at the civilian neighborhoods of this heroic city every day. And that's why it's very important for us to support the military today to those forces that are defending the Hersonic direction, but also to appoint adequate authority. We just returned from Herson and were absolutely impressed that the head of the military administration of Mrs. Lugova's city, she is completely inadequately representing Ukrainian authority today. Excuse me, in a city where there are more than 60,000 people left, where there are no jobs today, because there is no work until payments have been made from humanitarian international organizations, because only these registers are being collected, the volunteers have decided to create a volunteer bakery. What a sight for a community that needs fresh bread today, and sometimes there is no money to buy it when the headmistress simply forbade this bakery to work for some unknown reason. Similarly today, there are complaints from public organizations about the absence of a dialogue by the head of the military administration regarding the opaque distribution of humanitarian aid coming from the organizations. In our view, such decisions are a disgrace to central authority, for someone is appointing them. So, of course, my friends, we will support this decision. But we're asking everyone who's involved in the creation of the staff reserve, and this is about Banking, assigning people to non-loyal people, not those who will be the minorities of the Bank, but the adequate, professional, courageous, responsible, solidarity with their regions and those who will be guided by the protection of the region, the protection of people there, the protection of common sense, not, you know, how strange.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move to the decision-making process immediately after two draft decrees. I'm making an offer. Dear colleagues, take your seats, these are the draft decrees made by the President. Please. I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft of the Ordinance on the Implementation by the Head of the Jubilee Rural Military Administration of the Hersonian Region of the Hersonian Region of Powers, provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status (registration No. 8324). Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:18:47]] For 318 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next 8,305 without discussion. This is a draft decree for the execution by the heads of the military administrations of the localities in the Bastana and Mikolayev areas of the Mikolayev area of authority provided for in part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Military Status. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:19:30.]] For the 320. Decision taken. I'd like to make a proposal to accept, as a whole, the necessary legal and technical amendments to the draft Regulation No. 8305. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:19:56]] For the 320. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill is not discussed, too, 8087. This is a draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Urgent Measures to Strengthen the Powers of Cyberprotection of State Information Resources and Critical Information Infrastructure Objects. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. [[13:20:33]] For 305 Decision taken. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on immediate measures to enhance the capacity of cyberprotection of state information resources and critical information infrastructures (registration No. 8087). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:21:07]] For 302 Decision taken. Next bill, no discussion, 8098. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the order of conduct of military service under contract of foreigners and stateless persons in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other forms of military formation in accordance with Ukraine's laws. I'm making an offer, there will be no amendment, no second reading, and, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, Bill 8098. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:21:56]] For 321 Decision taken. Next Bill 7322. This is a draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the recognition by participants of hostilities of persons who have taken direct part in the implementation of measures necessary to protect Ukraine, protect the security of the population and the interests of the State in connection with the military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine and other issues. Here too, we agreed, no one will make any adjustments. So I immediately propose to accept in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments bill registration number 7322. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:22:51]] For 310 Decision taken. Next Bill 6085. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Electronic Identification and Electronic Trust Services. We agreed, too, without discussion. So I immediately propose to adopt registration number 6085 as the basis for the bill. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:23:27]] For 321 Decision taken. Next Bill 6086. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code for Electronic Identification and Electronic Trust Services. We agreed, too, without discussion. So I'm going to immediately propose that the bill be based on registration number 6086. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:24:07]] For 325 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill. Heratchenka, please, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is the first meeting of the Supreme Council this year. I'll remind you, we passed the Media Act, which resolved the issue of reporting on the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the war period. But it only goes into effect three months after it's signed. Thus, the issue of highlighting the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, particularly in these plenary days, remains unresolved. These are important meetings, we are taking many Euro-Integration Decisions, and so I ask that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine now put to the vote the question of the need to explain these plenary meetings to both the factions of the factions of all, and the Digest about the work, the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was in the network of the Radio Channel in the single marathon. The more there is a complaint today that the "Council" channel absolutely, unfortunately, for the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament does not show Parliament, and voters ask where we are, what we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, Irina Volodymyrovna Heratchenko's offer. Please vote. [[13:25:48]] For 244 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next 5742, we agreed without discussion, no one will make any adjustments. So, dear colleagues, I'm proposing to adopt, in the second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Cooperation of Territorial Communities on the Organization of Certain Issues of Cooperation of Territorial Communities. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:26:30.]] For 284 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 5325. This is a draft of the Act amending the laws of Ukraine on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees and on Physical Culture and Sport on the introduction of State standards in the field of physical culture and sports and state social standards for the provision of services to subjects in the field of physical culture and sport. We agreed no one would make any adjustments. So I'm proposing a second reading and, in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments to the bill, registration number 5325. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:27:22]] For 305 Decision taken. Next Bill 6364. There's gonna be an amendment for confirmation, right? Who's it gonna be? No, it won't, will it? Let's take that question off the record. Then I'll put a bill right away. Fellow Members, 6364: Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Resisting the spread of Human Immunodeficiency (HIV) Diseases and the Legal and Social Protection of People Living With HlV" on the application of modern approaches to prevention, testing and treatment of HIV-infection according to WHO management documents. I propose to accept, in the second reading and in general, the necessary technical and legal amendments, Bill No. 6364. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[13:28:28]] For 297 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues, the law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next law is under discussion, but I don't think it will be long. 6013 is a draft of the Law on the Specificities of the Business Activities of Individual Legal Persons and Their Uniting during the Transition Period. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:29:04]] For 264 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u39	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u40	Thank you. In 2003, great colleagues voted in the walls of this Parliament one of the most progressive codified acts, which is the Civil Code of Ukraine. This is the development and future of our legislation. At the same time, however, the so - called Codex Masters was voted in the walls of the same Parliament on the same day under the insistence of the post - Soviet elite. Throughout this period, the Codex of the Master has been fully exterminated, and today it is a major yoke on the neck of law - enforcement practices. When we came here, we said that our principle would be "one--in, two-out." And this is an example of when, after the deradation of legislation today, we ask the question of removing the outdated post - Soviet Master Code. The only thing I want to point out right now is that this is not going to affect the commercial jurisdiction of the courts, it's not going to affect the Department of Economic Law at the university, because the special legislation that regulates entrepreneurial activity remains. The second thing is important. We're giving a transition period and we're leaving some of the rules in the current Master's Code that will be in place for seven years to allow us to move on to the normal routes of civilised entrepreneurship. We give a choice, but we have to cut down on such stumps as the Ukrainian Master's Code and other critical and harmful acts for Ukraine's legislation. So I'm asking my colleagues, I'm asking for this bill, a lot of scientists and practitioners have been working on it, and we're going to improve it, and we're going to take into account all the necessary amendments that will come in order to translate Ukrainian entrepreneurial activities into the normal functional lines that exist in the European world. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u41	Thank you. Let's write it down: two in a row, two in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, let's write two in favour, two in favor, and we'll vote against it. Please sign up: two in favour, two in opposition. Please give the word Taruti Sergey Alexiyovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u43	The word is given to Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u44	Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u45	Thank you, Mr. Head. That's kind of an interesting logic. It turns out that the Civil Code adopted in 2004 is highly progressive, and the Master Code adopted in 2003 is retrograde. Well, it's such an interesting story and an interesting logic in all of this. Actually, what are the colleagues offering us with this law? This, indeed, as the Head of the Supreme Council said, is actually a law on, in fact, reducing the state's impact on the economy and repealing the Master Code. It seems rather strange at a time when this Supreme Council adopts laws that we are forced to take into state property, private property, when we are increasing the influence of the State on the economy, in order to bring the country together to take part in the armed aggression of the Russian Federation, when we are doing certain things, understanding that we need to strengthen the influence of the State on certain sectors of the economy. It's not about returning to the Soviet Union, it's about a real, serious balance. Any serious, developed country has up to 25 percent of the state's influence on the basic sectors of the economy. We are offered this influence, not to get rid of it, but to reduce it as much as possible, but to get rid of it wherever possible. In fact, in this difficult situation, which is absolutely unacceptable and impossible. Indeed, there is a story of what is given a seven - year period of transition. But once again, some mechanisms are starting up, some trends are already starting, some trends are starting today to weaken the state at a time when we have to strengthen the state. I am convinced that between the first and the second readings, this law needs to be worked out very seriously, as I understand it, the main author does not deny it either. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u46	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Bardina Marina. That's what I understand, Network, isn't it? Network Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u47	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! You know, I'd like to say a few words, not as a politician, not as an MP, but as a civilian scientist. Because today is a truly remarkable day in the history of Ukrainian law and in the history of Ukraine. I honestly didn't believe this day would ever come, but it did. We are taking a long mature step, removing the obstacle to the creation in Ukraine of a fully-fledged European system of private law, a modern system of private law. The nucleus of this system is the Civil Codex. What prevents the development of a private law system in Ukraine? Such an obstacle was the Master Code, which embodies questionable concepts of Soviet law that hinder the development of civil law and economic law in Ukraine. Removing this obstacle will contribute to the development of law in Ukraine as an integral part of European private law, improving the legal regulation of civil and economic relations in Ukraine, and encouraging investment in the Ukrainian economy. The European Codex brings chaos into the legal system and destroys the unity of the private law system. His acceptance was not related to objective reasons and necessity but, rather, to political considerations of an ideological nature. Thanks to this law that we are going to adopt today, we are creating a logical, hierarchical, understandable system of private law that is centered on the Constitution and the Civil Code, as the Bible, as the Constitution of our society. We get rid of Soviet legal anachronisms that hinder the development of property rights and private law institutions. The legal regulation of civil law relations and economic relations will become more.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u48	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, please, I understand from "European Solidarity" of Cuba Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u49	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like to support Mr. Vlasenko's opinion that in 2003-2004 bills, which were 19-20 years old, played a major role for our state. Along with today's consideration of improving corporate governance in legal persons based on state and municipal property, increasing investment attractiveness, putting in place effective mechanisms for control of state and municipal property, and eliminating contradictions between the Civil Code and special purpose acts. We are talking today about a private right that has advantages and that will be done. At the same time, the first and second readings need to be addressed by major differences that GNEU is also paying attention to regarding the transition period. It's big, but it has to be effective. We're talking about war today, we're talking about destroyed enterprises in the east and the center. In part of the project’s provisions, there is no direct relation to the principles of entrepreneurship and their unification and other positions. At the same time, the legal position on constitutional stamina should be removed. We're talking about article 191 of the Civil Code. At the same time, I want to say, colleagues, that it is necessary and we will be the first to support the reading. We should support the extension of the deadline for amendments and, at the same time, work on it using 116 articles. Conclusion of the Committee on European Integration, conclusion of the Digital Committee. many other ministries support the changes, but it takes a lot of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u50	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Please also Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, then Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, and then we vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Head. I think I fully understand the timely initiative. We must support and vote as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u52	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Please, Your Honor, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. Then we go to the vote. People's deputies, please take your seats. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I know very briefly very, very few examples when the presence of the Master Codex in the way it is now helped the Ukrainian business. And I know a huge number of examples when the existence of the Master Code in this form was hindering, and sometimes even ruining, the Ukrainian business. So the right law, based on it, can be voted on, then worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Stephen Ivanovich, but you have already spoken. Are you out of procedure? Please, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, I'm talking about the extension of the amendment deadline.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u56	Yeah, yeah, I get it, I get it, I announce it, and the hall votes. We vote first on the basis and then on the committee's proposal for continuation, yes. That's why I'm taking turns. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt, as a basis for further elaboration, provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the draft Law on the Specificities of the regulation of the entrepreneurship of certain types of legal persons and their integration during the transitional period (registration No. 6013). Ready to vote? Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the national deputies to vote. [[13:41:35]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, I'm making a proposal in accordance with the committee's decision to continue the half-time submission of proposals and amendments to prepare for the second reading. Please vote in favour of such a proposal by the committee, this is in accordance with Law 6013. [[13:42:08]] For 280 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next bill, 6447. This is a draft of the Civil Code Amendments and Supplements Act aimed at expanding the circle of civil rights objects. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:42:42]] For 287 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:43:04]] For 251 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, two in, two in, against, or just someone, one faction? Besides European Solidarity, who else? Then two in, two in, against. Please, Sternichuk Valeriy Aleksandrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People." We're handing Calaure over, so I understand, like the author of the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u57	Please pass the word to Calaure.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u58	Please, Ivan Romanovich Calaure. Ivan Romanovich, come on, you come out anyway, you're the author of the bill. We'll make a deal: two for, two for, but at least a speech from the center.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u59	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Today in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament is the day of civilisation. I thank all those who supported Bill 6013. This is really a private right victory. In the context of these civilistic changes, you will find Bill 6447, entitled: Amendments and Supplements to the Civil Code for the Expansion of Civil Rights Objects. The main objective of this bill is to objectively extend the circle of civil rights objects by complementing it with the benefits that are being created, and there is also a wealth trade that is being carried out in the digital environment. The task of developing a model for the implementation of such benefits, of civil rights objects, is for a working group that was created two years ago at the Supreme Council, whose main task is to re-decidate civil law. The concept of this recognizance states: The need to expand the circle of civil rights by virtual assets, digital content, accounts, and other benefits that exist in the digital environment. I would like to point out that many European nations have already carried out this redefinition, and in the plans for this recognizance, such objects have been involved in civil rights. The bill is small, but it is fundamental to further develop a whole set of bills of Euro-integration importance. This bill introduces virtual assets into the property.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u60	Thank you. Thank you, Ivan Romanovich. Please, Gregory Mikhailovich Surkis, the Platform for Life and Peace group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u62	Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u63	The honourable national MPs, in fact this bill, are just talking about the first reading. Why? Because the issue of intangible assets is not as simple as it seems to change one bill. It's a real complex that's being applied, and it's trying to do it in practice. It is very bad that the Cabinet of Ministers and the new ministries: digital information is not involved, but initiatives are being made as national MPs using their rights because there is no comprehensive approach to assessing intangible assets in Ukraine at this time. In this bill, I hope that the story will be corrected on the basis of who will be given authority, how the evaluation will be conducted, and, essentially, who exactly, by which methodology this will be made and done. If these criteria are defined by law for second reading, we will support them in the second reading. At this point in the first reading, we will support and participate between the first and the second with regard to changes and the introduction of rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u64	Please, Majeschovich Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u65	Please pass the word to Sergio Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u66	Please, Sergey Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, in today's circulation, there are long-standing benefits that exist only in virtual digital format, and there is an exchange of such benefits, there is a legal relationship for such benefits, and this needs to be regulated at the legislative level accordingly. Thus, the bill provides for a settlement of the matter by making appropriate changes to the Civil Code in accordance with article 177, and a new concept is introduced, such as the digital thing that refers to objects of civil rights. The thing is, we adopted the Civil Code about 20 years ago, and it's not settled. So the faction "European Solidarity" will support this bill in its first reading as a definition that is being implemented in the Civil Code so that such relations can be regulated in the future and it will monitor differences that need to be settled in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u68	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. Dear colleagues, after that we vote. And, Sergey Volodymyrovich, there will be, Vlasenko, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u69	Very short. We need a bill, given that we're going to legalize crypto and virtual assets, without changing the Civil Code, it's going to be a pretty bad job. So thank you to the committee for what you've been preparing, for so long it's been prepared, and it's really hard work, and it's enough philosophical all over the world right now. I'm sure you'll be working on the second reading. But, in principle, the introduction of the concept of "virtual assets," "digital content" and so on is the right thing for all countries to do now, which are somehow called "civilised" and those who want to move forward in this century, including in the field of IT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final word, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, and we move on to the vote. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u71	Thank you, Mr. Head. It seems to me that the term "civilistic day" will soon be the same as the "ruscavet school of law." Unfortunately, do you know whether to regulate digital things? A hundred percent is what it takes. But I have two questions. Is this the first question that concerns Ukrainians today? Do we need to spend time on draft laws that are aimed at countering armed aggression? This is the first time. And second of all, you know, I haven't remembered this kind of legislative chaos in a long time. On the one hand, they took it to the word category, because it's digital things, and on the other hand, it says that it's "mild." And the benefits are intangible assets that are regulated by a completely different chapter of the Civil Code. So you'll first figure out whether it's a thing or not, and then we'll regulate it. That's why the "Fatherland" faction will not be such a legislative chaos to support in the first reading. We will prepare appropriate amendments and see how this bill prepares for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. I'm asking you to take your seats. I propose to adopt the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Civil Code for the Expansion of Civil Rights Objects (Registration No. 6447). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:52:13]] For 273 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill is 6576. We agreed without discussion, since they are related. So I immediately propose, first of all, to include in the agenda of the day the draft Law on Digital Content and Digital Services (registration number 6576). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:52:51]] For 271 Decision taken. I propose to adopt the draft Law on Digital Content and Digital Services (Registration No. 6576). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:53:18]] For 261 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. The next bill is 8,084. We'll talk about it. This is a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the harmonization of activities and the state registration of public organizations. I'm proposing to include Bill 8084 in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:53:53]] For 295 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:54:15]] For 264 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, who insists on the discussion? Just the faction of European Solidarity and Fatherland? Then let's write it down: two in, two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Fris Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u74	Please, Igor Pavlovich Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u75	Congratulations, dear colleagues. Bill 8084 was developed by the Cabinet of Ministers and aimed at regulating and standardizing the activities of public organizations in Ukraine. Just so we're clear. In this bill, we clean up the issue of public associations, we solve the issue of all-U.S. public associations, we also clean them up, this status, we allow the state registration of public organizations by all subjects of state registration, we take away the exclusive competence of the Ministry of Justice in this matter. And this is a progressive bill that is supported by public organizations that is supported by the public society that is currently being considered and supported by our Committee on Legal Policy. Of course, appropriate adjustments will be necessary for the second reading. The "European Solidarity" faction called for a specific solution to the specific issue of the use of national symbols in titles and in the shows of public organizations. Of course, it will have to be restored, but in a comprehensive bill acceptable, it deserves attention, I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u76	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy Veliczovich Mikoli Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u77	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u78	Please, Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u79	Good afternoon, dear fellows! "European Solidarity" will support this bill in the first reading, because its key positions are really aimed at simplifying the lives of public organizations. As a person with a great deal of experience in public life, I feel the need for such simplification, and this law really brings our legislation closer to the norms that are in force in the European Union. The ability to act on the basis of a model statute, the cancellation of the division of organisations into varieties and the confirmation of all-U.S. status, the simplification of registration procedures, the reduction of the registration deadline of the organization to 24 hours, all of this deserves support. At the same time, the law requires a serious revision to the second reading, and we call on the profiling committee to make a number of important changes to it. For example, if we get rid of the concept of an all - Ukrainian organization, it is not clear why certain exceptions are made to individual spheres. If we want to simplify our lives to social organizations, we have to give up strengthening the regulation of their internal lives, and in a democratic country, it's definitely not the state's business. In doing so, it should be taken into account that public organizations in Ukraine play an important role in the activities of state institutions through supervisory boards. Therefore, it is important not to allow the simplifications proposed by this bill to be abused. I cannot agree with the deletion from the basic law of banning the use of symbols of social organizations of Communist, Nazi and adopted last year by a special law of racist symbolism or symbols of Russian aggression, as well as of the State Herb or Flag or images of individuals without their consent. The fact that the symbolism will not now be individually registered with Minusto does not mean that anything can be depicted on it. As a whole, therefore, this project can only be adopted after serious changes have been made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u80	Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland. After that, Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka and then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u81	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, the bill is very controversial. First, the status of an all-U.S. organization disappears. So the public organization, which has thousands or tens of thousands of people, today is likened to the organization of the village's beer lovers, that area, that area, that area, and there's no difference between them. And let's be honest with the other story. What, we don't know that public organizations are formed by elections? What, do we not know that public organizations are created to mislead people? What, we don't know everything that's so good? We're told: "We consulted civil society," nobody said anything to me. If you have consulted with a number of nearby social organizations, so - called social organizations, these are your problems. And notice what the deputy minister of justice said, presenting this bill on the committee. He said we have 90,000 public organizations today, we don't know what to do with it, so let's take this responsibility off the Ministry of Justice, let's let it all work out, let it work out. But it does launch a re-registration mechanism for social organisations, which is more appropriate for non-democratic countries than for democratic ones. Plus another story. There are no safeguards in this bill to participate in such civil society organizations of the aggressor country and legal persons controlled by the aggressor country. That is, if the bill stays the way it is, it will lead to Ukrainian so-called public organizations that will be controlled from the aggressor country. Clearly, then, this bill requires very careful and serious work. The "fatherland" will take part in this, but the first reading will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u82	Please, Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u83	Dear national MPs, the issue of public organizations, social groups, it existed, there exists, and I think it will exist. It's about control. I'm sorry, what kind of control does the Ministry of Justice have, for example, in these stories? The answer. If there are 16 or 17 associations or branches of the community that are recognized, they are registered by law, then the status of the all - Ukrainian public society or public organization can be applied for as a national, issued by the Ministry. If there are no 16 and 15 or 14, the ministries may contact the Ministry of Justice to denationalize the status of the national government. And everything is control. There is no mechanism for checking these separate links in Minsk. Is that control? No, not control. That's what this bill does, and it cleans up completely. The Ministry of Justice will not even look at the number or react. I was making my suggestions for making changes to the first reading. But we're going to support it in the first reading, we're going to work thoroughly with the law to really get control to be and audit to give the function of testing these organizations, because the audit service is a state institution, it doesn't have the authority to verify these public organizations right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the harmonization of activities and the registration of public organizations (registration No. 8084) in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure. Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[14:03:16]] For 283 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next Bill 7039, 7039-1. This is a bill of the Adult Education Act and an alternative: draft of the Adult Education and Education Act. I would like to suggest that we consider these issues in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:03:50]] For 259. Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, two in favor, two in favor, against can we vote? Two for, two for, please sign in. Please, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u85	Mr. Head, may I have a word with Mr. Rostislav Pavlenko? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u86	Please, Rostislav Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u87	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill as well as virtually everyone who is being considered by the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation, has been carefully prepared. The "European Solidarity" faction will support it on the basis. But that's a question where there's also a lot of room for further development in the direction of preciseing the mechanisms as to how this is going to be implemented. Because adult education requires a lot of capital. It's not just about some higher qualifications or something that's important, but about Ukrainian society, every citizen knowing how to use their rights, knew how these rights can be implemented, knew how they can be a responsible citizen and, in fact, protect their state, and use all possible mechanisms to do so. Therefore, the second reading will need to be followed up on the part of the bills that relate, inter alia, to budgetary support for adult education, and to specify whether both the state authorities and the local authorities should have not only the powers given by the bill but also the appropriate resources. But, colleagues, I also want to say that aside from the immediate mechanisms that we are, we all have to be an example to the country and look more quickly at the issues that finally pop out the tentacles of the Russian world. And that's why I'm asking you to consider more quickly those bills that are actually going to prove education for adults. And with regard to the decolonization of Ukraine, number 7721, and the ban on the Russian Church, 8221, and the elimination of the Fifth Column in this room, 8089. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u88	Please, Paul Andriovich Bakunec. Please pass the word to Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u89	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I would like first of all to thank the Committee on Education and Science for insisting that, despite the fact that in a very difficult situation in a country where there are priorities and priorities, there are clearly bills that relate to issues of national security, defence, the army and so forth, and today we are passing a number of bills concerning education, science, and innovation. So let us work hard to maintain this position. Why is the bill important? The thing is, the Ukrainian education and science system could really be proud of us having a powerful system that allowed for the training of professionals in higher education and both in large numbers and in good quality. However, what has been going on throughout the world and in Ukraine in recent years is that there is a need to increase attention to the training of professionals, professionally qualified people in individual areas of agriculture, and to address the training of adults in modern conditions, Ukraine, and the changing world. The bill is complex. He needs to be worked on in detail and carefully. So I would like, first, to address everyone and the whole room, to support him in the first reading, to prepare him for the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u90	Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. Dear colleagues, after that there will be Gritchcock, and then we vote. I'd like to invite the people's deputies to take their seats. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u91	Thank you, Mr. Head. You know, the title of this bill probably reflects general trends: the law is called adult education, but it's about education, including people of 14 years of age. So we already have adults, not some people, but people 14 years old. But that's not what I was going to say. In fact, this law contains many useful and understandable things that, of course, need to be maintained. But there are things that the Fatherland faction, with ideological motives, cannot support. In particular, the Fatherland faction is a year-old ideological opponent in the use of local budgets for financing, including vocational and technical education. Unfortunately, this huge mistake was made by the parliament of the previous summons, "The Fatherland" was then against the burden of financing vocational and technical education or secondary special education at the expense of local budgets. Unfortunately, the existence of this rule in this bill does not allow the "Paternity" party to support it in the first reading. We will make appropriate adjustments that will normalize the matter. If these amendments are supported and our other amendments are supported, we will be ready to support this bill. And we're also going to be making amendments that are going to change or even remove from there the creation of new state institutions that have to take care of any additional issues, so this is not the time for today. So the "Fatherland" faction in the first reading will hold back, make the necessary amendments, and continue to follow up on the adoption of this bill in the second reading. Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, the final word is Roman Gristuk, and then we will proceed to the vote on this bill. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u93	What can we do to make Ukraine a success after our victory? I think everyone's asking themselves that question. I have an answer. We have to do in Ukraine a cult of education, a cult of continuous learning, to move from the approach of "children learn and adults all know" to the approach "everybody learns throughout their lives." Taras Shevchenko did not tell children, students and students, he told all Ukrainians. We need to learn regardless of age, regardless of status, regardless of the number of educations we have received, and regardless of our experience. We have to set this desire on fire in the Ukrainians to learn something new so that we can understand new technologies regardless of age, so that we can improve Ukrainian language regardless of age, so that we can learn and know our rights and responsibilities as a citizen regardless of age. I urge everyone to vote in favour of the Adult Education Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. We're moving on to the vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear friends, I propose to adopt the draft Adult Education Act (registration number 7039) in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:13:11]] For 290 Decision taken. Next bill, 8242. This is a draft law amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the introduction, review and adoption of bills aimed at adapting Ukraine's legislation to the provisions of the European Union acquis in part of the implementation of Ukraine's international legal obligations in the field of European integration. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:13:49]] For 197 The decision is not taken. We're not looking at it today. Let's move on. 6203, this is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving State oversight (control) in the field of technological and fire safety (6203). I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[14:14:25]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, with discussion? No one insists. Come on. Are they insisting or not? They will be. Except then. It's the E.S. Again, Fatherland. Please write two in, two in, two in. Please, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u95	Dear Mr. Head, may I have a word with Mr. Mikola to the Prince? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u96	Mikola Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill proposes additional responsibilities for the subjects of farming: the provision of information on safety measures, the conduct of workers, the actions of the population in the event of a fire, another dangerous event, the appointment of those responsible for fire safety to take steps to secure their own immovable property by means of civil protection and fire protection systems. GNEU makes numerous comments to this bill, including those relating to the terminology used. Since the bill was also registered in October 2021, some of its positions are currently inconclusive and do not take into account that in 2022, particularly the Civil Protection Code, Ukraine was amended. For example, the bill proposes to amend articles that were excluded from the Civil Protection Code in 2022. Therefore, this project may need to be further developed, updated, taking into account the existing provisions of the legislative acts to which it proposes to amend. In view of this, he cannot be supported. And from our point of view, there are many other important issues that the Supreme Council should focus on that need urgent action. We didn't ban the Russian Church, we don't ban the Russian Peace in Ukraine. After the victory, of course, we should go back to the well - worked text of the bill with the aim of improving fire and technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u98	Please give the word to Pavluku Maxim Vasilovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u99	Manjiu, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u100	Please, Mandy Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u101	Respectful colleagues, the purpose of the bill, is to resolve and prevent fires from arising from problems related to the protection of human life and health. It is envisaged to amend Ukraine's Civil Protection Code, Ukraine's technical regulations and conformity assessment laws, and the Basic Principles for State Oversight (Control) in the Field of Economic Activities. The draft law proposes to clarify terminology, identify mechanisms for the implementation of State oversight measures, the obligation of entrepreneurs to ensure a proper level of fire safety, ensure the principle of equality of owners of different forms of property with regard to the conduct of their checks. Yes, indeed, the bill today came to the attention of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, but they, I think, will be worked out during the drafting of the bill for second reading. Therefore, I would like to support the decision of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use and the outcome of the first reading to adopt the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u102	Please, Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u103	Dear Mr. Head, the honourable chairman, the national deputies! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. In fact, today we want to express our gratitude to the state - service coworkers for their outstanding protection today. They're the first to respond to the challenges that exist today, and they're the first to arrive and eliminate the effects of rockets and other attacks by the Russian Federation. Honor and praise! With regard to this bill. Well, first of all, we need to read the conclusion of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee, which gives a negative conclusion and points to corruption risks when this bill is passed. It gives the State Service authority over emergency situations without hindrance, without the presence of an authorized person or business manager, an organization, an institution to infiltrate or to participate in the checks of all these objects. The bill also establishes their right to classify businesses, organizations, buildings. This bill assumes the responsibility of forgetfuls at the design or construction stage, to be relieved of responsibility for fire-fighting measures. We believe that this bill should be returned to the authors. Because the granting of extraordinary powers to the State Service in times of war will cause misunderstandings to those subjects who are working for Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u104	Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u105	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I would like to express my thanks to our rescuers, our firefighters for what they do during this terrible war. But for them, the war began not in 2014, not on February 24, but on the first day of independence. They are fighting for the preservation of the lives of our citizens. And I'm surprised to hear them talking about some extraordinary powers for our rescue workers. When something is wrong, who is to blame? It's an extraordinary service or the Ministry of Emergency Situations before it's reorganized. And I ask the question: Why do we demand their operationality, demand their timely response and competence, and when they are asked to be able to control them, including at the construction and design stages, appropriate objects that they will then, God forbid, protect them from fire and fire, then nobody cares? I am addressing all of you as a person who has had the privilege of leading the work of our rescuers and firefighters twice, supporting this initiative today, and allowing control at the design and construction stages, rather than questioning why we came late and responded in a timely manner, and not climbing the appropriate floor to protect our citizens. There is nothing more valuable than the lives of our citizens. And those who protect them deserve both respect and support in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Please take your seats. I propose to adopt a draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving State oversight (control) in the field of technological and fire safety (registration number 6203). People's deputies, please vote. [[14:23:36]] For 231 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Next up, 8079. This is the second reading, the draft Act amending Chapter XX, Chapter 8, of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Prohibition of the Placement of the Game Business on a Simplified Taxation System. We agreed we'd have it. Nina Jujanin, right? How much? In five minutes. Please, in five minutes, Nina Petrovna, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, this bill was to be considered in our second reading in December, and we were very much hoping that this law would be passed. For various reasons we have not considered it in the second reading, there have been many amendments from our faction, by the way, to the amendment of article 116 of the Law on Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We did it on purpose, because very often now the authorities are using 116, violating 116 articles, and making changes to this law -- it was the only chance to change the situation of blocking tax breaks by the end of last year, but that didn't happen. I don't think there's any business in the country today, no human being, I'm sure you all know what blocking the registration of tax receipts is, and how this blocking can stop businesses. And as long as these questions were about a small number of businesses, we talked a little bit about in the hall, but when large businesses and systemic enterprises, Ukrainian producers during November of the month, they even submitted more than 20 to the President of Ukraine, I have all these calls, they're represented by large associations, from large associations, the payers said they had to pay twice the VAT twice, twice. Because once there's a tax liability when there's a profit from the goods and services sold, and twice when an enterprise can't benefit from a legal right to tax credit because of the non-registration of its counterparty's overhead. Dear colleagues, I wanted you to, because the vast majority here for the first time, in Parliament, still understood that when we systematically try to automate something, we need to understand that this automation should not lead to huge problems for business. We need to do it only to facilitate work and improve control. And when any of our suggestions, any norm doesn't reach that result, we either have to make it work to avoid all inadequacies or manual interference, or to undo it. I introduced the tax evasion system in 2016 and there is, in the Tax Code, a direct rule of the law that no enterprise can be responsible for its counterparty. So if a counterparty is blocked by a tax slip, it can't in any way be reflected in another enterprise, its partners. Now it's quite obvious that this tool has turned into a purely corrupt component, a manual tax blocking mechanism, which has significantly reduced the ability of each company to obtain the circulation costs. And it's actually a very delicate and narrow professional question, and it needs a broad discussion on the committee, which is what we're doing. But in view of the fact that some authorities have decided that many tax laws can be ignored, that is, blocking the tax system again and covering up our struggle against scraps or other optimisation mechanisms. You can't do that, because then you can't put in a total system like the SEA VAT, blocking tax receipts. If you continue to operate by the tax police of the days of Azarov, Klimenko, it was then that they blocked everyone in the chain, that's when they were talking about this schematic loan. And now, in 2022-23, we're going to continue to do it in ways. Who will work in this country? How will the payer trust us? I want to show you one example of how this is happening. There are grounds for blocking tax receipts, such as the availability in tax authorities of information that indicates a violation there, without specific details. Once again, the direct norm forbids blocking the tax slips on the chain. Realizing that, I submitted two amendments to this draft law that would resolve the situation, and that was what businesses were looking to the President for. They asked for a time of war.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u108	30 seconds, Nina Petrovney, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u109	I wanted to make two amendments to the confirmation actually. And I trust the head of the committee that he will lead the matter to an end and will do everything possible to make sure that the EMCDDA works more correctly and that the manual intervention is gone. But these two amendments are signed by representatives of different factions and groups, and this suggests that the whole country knows the problem of blocking. And they. They could be accepted, they can be applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending Chapter XX, Chapter 8, of the Ukrainian Code on the Prohibition of the Circumstances of Playing Business on a Simplified System of Taxation (Registration No. 8079). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:31:25]] For 303 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next Bill 8298. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other legislation on additional support for domestic industry and business during the war. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:32:05]] For 273 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an offer to consider this issue in a simplified manner and ask the members of the people to vote. [[14:32:29]] For 249 Decision taken. Danilo Alexandrovich, you want to speak now or at once. Colleagues, we can immediately vote first and second without discussion. Besides European Solidarity, who else will? The Voice will do it. Well, then, friends, two in, two in, two in. But then I have the next offer. And mated without discussion. Also not, huh? Well, then, let's do two in, two in, two in, against. Greenchuk Oksana Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Daniel Getmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u112	Danilo Alexandrovich Getmants.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, the bill is the result of our business meetings during the fall and December of last year, with the initiative of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers and our financial committee. We got from the key sectors of our economy that are suffering today from war, those proposals that we've discussed very deeply, and we've actually agreed to support our industry, and it's about industry, supporting a few of those essential benefits that we want to give them. First of all, it's import into the customs territory of Ukraine of equipment without payment of VAT and without payment of import duties. Second, it's for metallurgy exemption from rent payments on the ore of that ore that is used to make metal. We now have minus 65 percent of the production in the sector that is considered a priority. In addition, we propose to agrarians that they pay benefits in the fourth group of the only tax for those areas under occupation, in the zone of hostilities or in the area of mines. In addition, we suggest that we continue to use accounting registers even if they are completed. We suggest not to apply administrative and economic sanctions to those enterprises for violating the rules on the employment of persons with disabilities. A lot of business is asking for these standards. And some other standards, which are more sectoral, are smaller. In fact, business today suffers. And our job is to support it with what we can support by taking into account the resource constraints of our budget. Of course, for the second reading, we will consult with the International Monetary Fund and get a balanced document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u114	Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Platform for Life and Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u115	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please give the floor to your honorary colleague Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u116	Alexander Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u117	Thank you, Your Honor Nestor Ivanovich, for the opportunity to speak. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, and, above all, the honourable drafters of the bill! There are a few formal aspects that I want to draw attention to that have not been included in these documents, particularly in the explanatory note on financial and economic justification. Well, when you wrote the motivational part, there was a mistake in one of the bills, where you copied 13 billion dollars of damage, referring to the Kyiv School of Economics. Although they have $136 billion in losses. So you copied an incomplete number, and from this point of view you came up with this data. That's the first one. And now, essentially. See if industry needs to be maintained? Of course, we need to, given the fact that we have the last year, and this is the President's Office's assessment and data, it's probably 70 percent of the Institute of Strategic Research's average industrial production has fallen. In particular sectors, this figure represents, in particular, the metallurgy mentioned today, minus 72 percent. The National Bank of Ukraine has fixed debt on wages, an increase in the number of unemployed, including 4.5 million unemployed. It fell significantly as a result of the export of goods by 35 percent. It's been in the last year. The drop in gross domestic product is more than 30 percent. So all of these figures show that the real economy of Ukraine needs serious shifts and incentives, including fiscal incentives and customs incentives, including the introduction of equipment. Yet, in my view, the standards that are now involved in ore or other aspects that, in a mild sense, are unlikely to have that economic effect. And why did I say that there was no such thing in the explanatory note? Because you will not show it, it will not be, or it will be debated and questionable. That's why we're going to support this bill on the basis, but in our view, it's going to have to be thoroughly worked out between the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u118	Please proceed to Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u119	Please pass the word to the Ironborn.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u120	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, there are, of course, certain standards in this law that need to be supported: about the RRO, about the fourth group, about vocational education. But most of the rules are about tax benefits. I can tell you right now what's going to happen and what's going to happen with this bill. Of course, this is the kind of populism that this Parliament is voting on. It's much easier to abolish taxes than then to introduce them. Then there will be the procedure of the second reading. For the second reading, our Ministry of Finance will receive a letter from the IMF, which will be highlighted in the programme that we recently entered, fat and specially translated into Ukrainian, who does not speak English, the rule that we do not introduce tax benefits. Then he'll fly to the government, then he'll fly to the Supreme Council. And this is the kind of bill that they'll never accept. We have some deputies who are friends with Betting's business, and it would be cool if we made that bet, we could at least fill the budget like that. But once again, this bill directly violates the IMF program. Well, just from black to white. So can we heroically now create this problem in our first reading? We can. Next up to the second reading to the entire hall, the whole government, the whole country, we'll also heroically decide it and tell the IMF why we didn't mean it at all. But let's go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u122	Please, Nina Petrovna, the "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u123	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, I am, in fact, now shocked by the indifference with which we are now considering this block of laws, and this law, and the following. Because the populist words about industrial support, about what needs to be supported. Mr. Alexander, I respect you very much, but look what it says. It seems to me not to know that there are already investment parks in our country, industrial parks, Acts City, mining towns, VAT schedules, aids for scientific institutions, if they buy equipment for their scientific development, there is a procedure in the customs car, a mechanism for the final use of equipment and importing it without VAT, and without paying the duty for their own use, only to meet certain criteria of transparency. What else is missing, please tell me? How your lobbyist standards have been filled. How these things have been filled up, which you're going under three normal standards, and you're going to shove into a draft law that you can't exactly pass. I'm already talking about an iron ore rent. How was this to be treated in the first place? Half a year ago, there was singing about whether everyone should be arrested or 10 months ago, establishing a new formula for calculation, shouting that betrayal was from the owners of these factories. Now we're swimming. Listen, if we don't get all of our law enforcement attention now, the country will end. Guys, don't act so calm, we have to take care of our budget right now. Have you seen the loss figures? The committee hears fellow members of the committee that the total loss will be 15.7 billion VAT only, 3 billion import duties per equipment, 8 billion rents per rent. And you're allowing the army that's in that state to lose funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, everyone here, please take your seats. I immediately propose to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other Ukrainian legislation on additional support for domestic industry and business during the war (register No. 8298). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:13]] For 246 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Next Bill 8299. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code to further support domestic industry and business during the war. I'm proposing to include it in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:43:51]] For 257 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[14:44:16]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-again. Can we proceed immediately to the vote? Dear colleagues, I think they've already told us. Okay, then two in, two in, two in. Democracy is a terrible thing. Please. No, it's a joke, you know. It's respect for democracy. For we have great power that is power, there is luxury as is sung by Mr. Roman. Dear colleagues, the word is given to Kozir Sergey Vyacheslavovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u125	Please pass the word to Daniel Getmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u126	Danilo Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, I'm going to use this time to answer those moments, the accusations, the concerns that came out of this rostrum about the previous bill. In fact, it's a very difficult decision, especially for me, you know my position on tax benefits, on tax cuts, a very difficult decision. But difficult times require difficult decisions. Because if we have a metallurgy that's lost 65 percent of our production and it's losing markets now, whoever these companies are, we're not going to get either these jobs or these taxes, or we're not going to get any money if they disappear on the map of Ukraine at all. And if we have a defence and industrial complex to develop, taking into account the government's order for war, we have to make sure that they buy equipment for that money, new equipment, and not advance the value added tax to the budget. And I insist, and I say that if a business pays import VAT or is exempt from import VAT, then the same VAT is paid in the same product as it does, and there is no loss in the state, there is only a suspension at the time it receives that tax. I insist that the agrarians receive benefits from paying the fourth group tax in the occupied territories. Why discuss it, it's understandable. And it's clear that we don't have much money for anything. But clearly, the other thing is that we have to save the economy, we have to ensure that it develops after the war. Because you're not going to have an economy, it's just going to be raw, the economy is going to be nothing, and there's not going to be any perspective in our country, we're going to be as poor as we were before the war. So I'm asking you to support these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u128	Please, Frez Irina Vasilovna, faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u129	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u130	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, the request is very calm and listen carefully, and this is definitely not to be voted on. Reasons four. Let me explain. First. When we adopted the 23rd year budget, the finance minister made it clear that our partners were giving us social assistance, retirement, medical pay, teachers. But we can't use that on our Armed Forces. On our Armed Forces we will use exclusively the money from the taxes we collect. Loss of this law is estimated at 30 billion. So 30 billion dollars. The next question is, all the standards that, for example, our Ucroborprom can import equipment, are already in law, and they can be used peacefully. Item number 3. Now you know how much we're, well, unfortunately, addicted to aggression by helping our partners. It's just for information. Yes, the European Union gives us 18 billion, more specifically, is going to set out, and now there's going to be a memorandum from the EU on this money, 18 billion euros that will go to the salaries of doctors, teachers, pensions and so on. Thus, the adoption of this law, even in the first reading, will make all the negotiations and talks of our Minfin and our government in general with the European Union regarding the signing of this Memorandum. Therefore, there is no definite vote. If you want to take 30 billion in the army, everyone makes a decision for themselves, there's a press release that supports the withdrawal of money from the army. I remember these stories in this room. Anyone who wants to complicate negotiations with the European Union, the printing press stays who wants to – vote. Whoever hesitates, let me remind you again: these rules already exist and they are in our legislation. So now it's a purely lobbyist story that's only going to hurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u132	Jaroslav Ivanovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, look, in this bill, what's called mixed horses and people. There are really normal norms, well, once again, in RRO, in the fourth group in occupied areas, along the Zaporez nuclear power station. No one will deny it, there will be no problems. There are two in fact norms that are, well, controversial enough, these are customs-free imports and VAT equipment. Well, say colleagues, look, we've got mining cities, we've got investment parks, we've got industrial parks, we've got free customs zones, and even though there's one left, we've got a lot of other benefits, but industry doesn't even happen in peace. Well, maybe we don't have to do the same thing by counting on another result, but somehow we have to think about other measures. Part two. Look, this looks schizophrenic on the side. Yesterday, the government stated that it would introduce to the IMF programme the Tax Exemption Act of July 1, 2023 for small entrepreneurs, for, well, small businesses, because there is an IMF Program. And they're going to do that, and I assure you, this room is going to vote it out, because it's going to go nowhere. At the same time, we are trying to vote in favour of large businesses. Well, with all due respect, those who get the ore, well, not the small and medium-sized business. And so hard for them, they lost their businesses, including in my hometown of Mariupol. Well, not the last piece of bread they eat, honestly. So, dear fellows, I assure you that this bill will not go away like this anyway. Why are we making one more mistake out of Parliament, honestly, I just don't get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. People's deputies please take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on additional support for domestic industry and business during the war (registration No. 8299). Please vote. [[14:52:41]] For 243 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Let's move on. The next bill is 8287. This is a draft of the Tax Amendment Act. 8287. Oh, sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, all right, we need a break. 8286: The draft Law on Electronic Monitoring of Alcoholic Drinks and Tobacco Products, fluids used in electronic cigarettes. 8286. I'm proposing to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:53:41]] For 242 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[2:54:02]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-con? Or, Danilo Alexandrovich, do you insist on speaking? We're voting, aren't we? Two in, two in. Democracy is power, it's luxury. Please two in, two in, two in. Dear colleagues, maybe we'll do the 86th and the 87th. No, Arthur Volodymyrovich, holy law, you'll be speaking after 87th. Please, Kowalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People." I understand that, Danilo Alexandrovich, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u135	Yes, pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u136	Please, Danilo Alexanderovich the Getmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, what is this bill, this one and the next? About the electronic excise stamp. The issue of electronic excise stamps has been raised in our country since 2013. Since 2013, we've been having a discussion on how to do the accounting of the excise goods of vodka and tobacco in such a way that these goods are not lost by the manufacturer or importer on the way to the last cash register, on the way to the consumer. For every penny of this product, and the excise duty there takes about 60 percent of the value, it goes to the state budget. And, of course, this question is overwhelming in times of peace, and it is overwhelming in wartime. That's why, over the course of the year, even more so, the Ministry of Digital Transformation, along with other government authorities, developed a concept of software that allows for the accounting of these products, the so-called track-and-trace, and the tobacco, and the vodka. And to make it clear that every consumer can use their phone to scan the excise stamp, not the paper excise stamp, but the electronic excise stamp placed on a bottle, on a pack of cigarettes, to find out whether this product is counterfeit or not, to report it to the State Tax Office if they want to. We understand that the opposition to the illegal tobacco market, the opposition to the illegal cigarette market lies precisely in the scope of the introduction of new technologies, where the excise mark will be obtained without human participation, only on the basis of the payment of the licensee of the corresponding payment to the state budget, where electronic technology will be monitored and the participation of the person will be minimized. This is the kind of algorithm Fedorov developed, this is the kind of algorithm we support, and we ask you to support the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. Oh, I'm sorry, my God, Joanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, I'm sorry, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u139	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u140	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you not to buy a vote because some people get a lot of money for it. I want to tell you that it's just been said that the electronic excise stamp is applied to, I understand, the capacity, the bottle. No, the electronic excise stamp under the draft law is applied, it can also be applied to the label, only to be printed by the manufacturer or the importer himself. I've listened very carefully to the committee's discussion, I don't know, in fact, the electronic excise stamp has been on the table since 2014, but somehow today, to get money from a certain grant, which is once again sitting in the Ministry of Transformation away from the Ministry, and counselors far away from Ukraine, that's what's going on. I think we need to improve our control system. But I'm surprised why we don't see the appeal, the observation, the explanation of the large institutions that study these topics and give us recommendations. Recently, our committee, all the deputies, received one of those that just explained how this control is taking place in the European Union. So 23 countries in the European Union kept a classic excise stamp, and at the beginning they also refused it and wanted to talk about an electronic excise stamp. What is an electronic excise stamp? This is a QR code that contains much more information and allows you to control more across the chain, why this system is called that, but with a lot of pressure on the entire supply and purchase chain. Will this result? Of course not, because it will apply exclusively to white manufacturers and sellers.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u142	Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the "Voice" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u143	The Minister’s office is in favour of electronic accounting of the tax revenue. The Prime Minister considers the existence of excise stamps to be completely ineffective and advocates the transfer of the calculation of excise goods exclusively into electronic form. The existence of excise stamps, he said, has created absolutely ineffectively a serious foundation for corruption. I just read a message from the Cabinet of Ministers on April 4, 2014. The prime minister who claimed it was Arsenius Yatzenuk. That's how much we put in an electronic excise stamp. Why is this important? Because they're stealing, it's very simple because they're stealing tobacco in the market, and now this illegal market is 22 percent, they're translating minus 20 billion and about half, even a little bit more into alcoholic products. And what is now being proposed by this law is definitely an adequate approach to reducing the amount of money that outright crime steals because there are no decent people there. On our committee was Mikhail Fedorov, the minister of transformation, who offers a free system where every citizen on his phone can check, it's an original pack of cigarettes or a fake, it's a normal vodka or something, let's say, not in very industrial conditions. It's an important normal bill. Once again, free. So, dear colleagues, I think we need to support the start of another previous government that said that we need to go to an electronic brand and exactly support this bill at least on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, Mr. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, and then we go to the vote. People's deputies please come to the hall. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u145	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, anything that will contribute to the fight against the shadow sector should be supported and voted immediately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We're moving on to making a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] So there's no alternative here. 8286. The alternative is up to 8287. Please follow the course of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt, on the basis of the drafting of provisions in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the draft Law on ensuring electronic monitoring of the circulation of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, liquids used in electronic cigarettes (registration No. 8286). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:03:18]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following two bills, are one basic, one alternative, 8287. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian laws in connection with the introduction of electronic surveillance of the circulation of alcoholic beverages, tobacco products and liquids used in electronic cigarettes and an alternative to the 8287 with the '1' badge. I propose to include both these bills in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:04:04]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, will the report be the main and alternate? I know so much that the author of the alternative is asking to report, don't I? Then the main one, then the alternate one, then two in, two in, two in, against. Please, Danilo Alexanderovich the Getmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, in fact, we've already supported the first bill of the package, so it makes sense to support the second bill. I'm just going to say in a nutshell, what's the difference between a basic bill and an alternative one, the scope of application. The scope of application. The previous speakers said that the discussion has been going on since the 14th year. That's true. Why does it last? Why Are Questions Answered? Because, unfortunately, the market doesn't want this system, and it doesn't want the liquor market first. So our bill, it's called for excise stamps both for tobacco products and for alcoholic beverages. This is the bill that was drafted in conjunction with the Ministry of Digital Transformation. And the alternative is to stop at just tobacco products, which we don't think is conceptual. I would also like to point out in response to previous statements that, in fact, excise electronic brand is free, it will be written directly in the law and it is in the decision of our committee, and it will not allow you to take, by mark, a pack of cigarettes, or a bottle of any money. This software will be developed by a special project, not for government money, for donor money. And that's also very important. And that's what the Ministry of Digital Transformation has agreed on. So there's not going to be any extra pressure on the budget. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u148	Thank you. Please write an alternative bill. Who do we have? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, just a few suggestions to support our bill, which is essentially an alternative to Bills 8286 and 8287. Our bill introduces an electronic excise stamp for tobacco products as well as a basic one. But our bill leaves the administration of excise taxes at the state tax office, and the Getmantzeva bill passes this essentially fiscal function on to a state-owned enterprise. The transfer of fiscal functions to a state-owned enterprise is a know-how, which is proposed for the first time in Ukraine's years of independence. And why pass the function of administration of excise tax from the DPS on to some state-owned enterprise, because the head of the financial committee is constantly bragging about the work of the tax service. Our bill is based on a working group at Minfin with representatives of the tobacco and alcohol industries. The Getmantsev Bills are not worked out so much that if they are adopted, they will have to be copied completely to the second reading. And not the fact that it can be done in a good way. Our bill is also supported by all associations and public organizations: Ukritojun, the European Business Association, the Ukrainian Employers' Federation, the Board of Entrepreneurs of Kabul. Instead, the associations in question are taking firm action against the main law by the authorship of Getmantsev. In accordance with the position of professional associations, Getmancewa’s laws may lead to a collapse in the legal market for alcohol and cigarettes. Supply chains can just stop for an indefinite period of time. All of this will contribute to the further frenzied growth of the black market for subcontractive products and the reduction of revenue to the budget. Our bill provides for a simple and clear track-and-trace tracking system that is applied in the EU and is fully in line with the EU directive. The Getmance drafts are conceptually inopportune.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, the right to a repulsion of Gethmantsev. Please, Danilo Alexandrovich. And then there's two, there's two, there's two. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u151	Thank you for bringing it up. Look, why didn't they get married in the 14th year? That's because he was opposed. Why are associations against it? Because the alcohol association doesn't want an electronic excise stamp, because then we're going to have to account for all of our products, not to consume illegal alcohol, and to entertain it as even some white producers do. And, colleagues, I would advise before speaking, a little bit of reading of the bills of my opponents and seeing that there is no mention of any DP in the text of the bill and there will be no, because all functions will be under the State Tax Service according to legislation and behind the Mincifre in the administration of software. You don't even have to lie for the sake of an illegal market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, I now ask you to sign up: two in favour, two in opposition to discussing these important bills, and then we turn to voting for them. Please write down: two for, two for the faction and the group. Jaroslav Romanovich Jurczin, faction of the Voice, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u153	Please pass it on to Jaroslav, but Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u154	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u155	Jaroslav, but Ironman. Dear colleagues, I understand that I may have overstated the limit for the performance today, so very briefly. It's also a technical bill, in addition to that bill that we just voted on. It doesn't make any sense anymore: one vote is the other vote. So there's a reference to it, and there's a request from business, for example, to continue the transition period. But all of this can be done peacefully for the second reading. So I suggest that we vote and move quickly on to other legislative initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u156	Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, faction of "European Solidarity"
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u157	Please pass the word to Nina Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u158	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u159	Colleagues, well, I don't want us to look so superficially at such global problems. But there's no resistance to manufacturers since 2014, so you have to realize. We just actually have a real possibility right now because of a strong minister of information who can implement this project, but to do that, you have to write it out in such a way that it's accepted. And this Beliberda, I'm sorry for the word, has to be rewritten by 100 percent. What is article 116 of the Rules? We need to completely replace the new draft laws. Friends, fellow members of the committee, please don't fall so low, say some populist things, not really what's going on. Well, you didn't answer the question, because this QR code, your electronic excise mark, it's not on the bottle, it's not on the bottle, it's on the bottle, it's on the bottle in any way. Yeah, it's generated in an electronic system, and it could be a ministry that can help us divide this manual intervention, or there's a forgery, or there's another solution. But this is a document that will simply be printed by the manufacturer himself and attached somewhere. Oh, my God, look, you're just creating a system of losing control of even the brand that there is. Because our paper brand can really be wiped out, it can lose its appearance, but this brand that will be attached to the QR code is the same. Please understand, you need a completely new approach here, new draft laws, and really do this through the Ministry, which now, transformation, as a system, enter even through the Operation the access point to verify these codes. All of this can be done. But what you're looking at in the hall today is not what you're looking at. So I suggest we don't vote and quickly create new projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u160	Dear colleagues. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich and then from the faction of the Gethmans, I was told.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the honourable colleagues, the issue is discussed in a comprehensive way, and I think that all the parties that are now at odds with each other, the arguments are understandable, have to be identified and voted on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u162	Please, Danilo Alexanderovich of the "Serve of the People" faction. Dear colleagues, before Danilo Alexanderovich speaks, I ask you to invite the people's deputies into the hall, we will now vote in favour of this bill. Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, we had such a profound discussion that we understood all the arguments and contradictions. About free -- clearly, free software for the budget and free of charge for the electronic excise stamp itself. It's understandable about the dissatisfaction of some part of the business, because in fact the "white" business is really interested in introducing such a system, and I absolutely support this concept. And it's clear that we really need to work on the bill, we need to work on the second reading that we're ready for. We hear comments, and most of these comments are already in the committee's decision as suggestions of the committee. And we urge everyone who has participated in this discussion today, as well as others who have failed, to join in the work on the draft for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u164	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move to making a decision. I propose to adopt a bill amending Ukraine’s Tax Code and some other laws in relation to the introduction of electronic traceability of alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, and fluids used in electronic cigarettes (project No. 8287). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:16:21]] For 231 Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, they have completed their consideration of these combined issues. Then we have Bill 8166, 8166 with badge "1", 8166 with badge "d". This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian legislation on the application of the export security regime for a period of military, state of emergency. That's what I called the name of the bill with the "d" badge, because it's exactly what it's recommended to accept. I'm proposing to include all these three bills in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:17:14]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we agreed, without discussion, we vote for the basis and then for the whole. I therefore propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian legislation on the application of the export security regime for a period of military, state of emergency (project registration number 8166-d). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:17:57]] For 229 Decision taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, I can put it all together. I propose that, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and some other legislation on the application of the export security regime for a period of military, state of emergency (Registration No. 8166-d). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:18:39]] For 231 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill is 8,300. This is a draft law on mandatory civil liability insurance for land transport owners. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session, this bill. Please vote. [[15:19:15.]] For 239. Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[15:19:36]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two in favour, two in favor, and we vote against it. Can we vote like that? Two, two, against, please register the factions and groups. Only those who wish to speak are recorded. Please give the floor to Dmitri Artem Hennadijovich, the MP's "Delivery of Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u165	Colleagues, our group supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u166	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, our group supports this bill, and we need to identify and vote as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u168	Thank you. Please, Nina Petrovn Jujanin, "European Solidarity" faction. After that, I understand the "Serial of the People" faction, the Gethmans are still speaking, right? And let's go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, if you don't know, it's a law that fundamentally or radically changes the insurance system, our ordinary automobile, which we've talked about a lot before, has made some progress. And I don't mind. But I'm turning to power. Let us now do what is absolutely necessary today, taking into account the situation that is. Because when you run into draft laws that are due to work since 2025, from 2026, after 7 years, listen, you're going to get what you've adopted. I'm here now talking to a lot of colleagues who are jumping from the words "we're going to do reform." I want to remind you, a one-time declaration. Where is it? Deofshoring. Where is she? Baby. Where is this organ? How many more bad decisions do you have to make in the hall? And you're not even blushing from what you've been doing here, and as you're starting to break down, systematically let the lame, but the active system work for you. I'm not going to discuss the substance of the project right now, we talked about it at a committee meeting. But I won't support what's not worked out, and our faction won't support it as long as we're systematic. You will not learn to answer for the so - called reforms you have begun. Bring them to their minds, and then we'll move on. And this law we're going to work on, but please cancel the deadline for implementation so that you don't really implement it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u170	Please, Danilo Alexandrovich Getmantsev, and then we go to the vote. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u171	Well, in fact, we're probably the first authority in Ukraine to be accused of reforming too much, not too little. But with regard to the implementation of relevant reforms, I would like to point out that every reform has a deadline for implementation, as is the case with the above-mentioned anti-offshor law, a declaration or reports to be submitted in 2024 in 2022. Similarly, this reform envisions a deadline for implementation, as of January 1, 2024. At the same time, we have discussed this issue on the faction, and we propose that this time frame be set aside for a period of military time so that the changes in the law can be prepared for them, taking into account the circumstances that exist, and we are now making such commitments. The law is cool, the law is one that brings our legislation into line with the euro-redictive and makes auto-civile much better than it is now. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking you to take your seats. This is a really important reformer bill. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I propose to adopt the draft Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Liability of Land Transporters (Registration No. 8300). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. [[15:24:33]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill is 8274. This is a draft law amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine on the establishment of temporary features for the determination of the customs value of goods exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine. I'm proposing to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:25:16]] For 264 Decision taken. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[15:25:39]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two in favor, two in favor, and we vote. Can we just vote? Two, yes. Danilo Alexandrovich, I can't. Two for, two for, please. Danilo Aleksandrovitch, and you press the button to say "for" and "for" the button. Great, Babak won you. Please, Babak, I understand he's handing the Gethmans over to the "Serve of the People." Please, Danilo Alexandrovich. Then Savrasov, then Juršin and then we vote. Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a very important law, which is that we are introducing standards according to which products exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine, in the case that they have an ad valorem duty or a percentage of their value, the tax base for this product may be determined by customs. Today, there is a situation where, when imported from customs territory of Ukraine, copper, another raw material, exporters deliberately underestimate this value and pay no cash to the state budget. It also affects the return of the currency proceeds, by the way, the bill we have just voted accordingly, which is also aimed at putting an end to this offence. So the bill is simple enough, and the bill is useful. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u174	Thank you. Please give the word "savrasov" to Maxim Vitaliovich. But that's what I understand, Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u175	Simple law, draft law, but it's not a simple topic we could discuss right now. But it is convenient for the authorities to shut up now. In fact, right now we're talking about a specific list of goods that are exported from Ukraine, which are customs, export duties. This is a very small list of goods. And now the law is being passed perfectly right, and we will support it. But at this time, there is a huge problem in the grain corridor. You haven't heard of the corruption that's going on in there? Are these not partly related to what we are talking about? And it's just a lack of payment or some loss that's already annotated by the circle and everyone, that doesn't apply to this norm because there's no grain here. They relate to decisions taken at the very wrong time or, on the contrary, decisions made that allowed fictitious companies to unload in this narrow throat of the grain corridor huge batches of goods, not to pay any penny in Ukraine, not to pay as a taxpayer, not as an exporter, because as an exporter they have no payments, but tax, BEB and customs have allowed such a failure. And it's not really about them, it seems to me that eventually all the law enforcement authorities, maybe under the current authority, might find the ends of the problem, and they start with the permits that someone gives so that the company can board the ship. I'm very interested in this subject, and I don't think there's going to be an answer to all these questions, but as long as there's no transparent register of all the grain exporters who are entitled, like each of them. The love of getting on a ship, no sense, there will be one corruption, and no one will ever investigate it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u176	The word is given to Jurchino Jaroslav Romanovich, the faction of the Voice. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u177	Please pass it on to Jaroslav, but Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u178	Jaroslav, but the Ironborn, please, has a word for you. Dear colleagues, Jaroslav Ivanovich, one second, I ask you to invite the national MPs, because after this speech we are going to vote in favour of the law. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, the bill is correct and must be voted on. We're not going to do so much worse in time of war, but I'm sure I'll comment on what Nina Petrovna just said. She's right. And I invite her to our TSC, we had a meeting Tuesday, we looked at the situation, it's totally wild, I'm not going to comment, in principle, on how customs behaved, it's a moral issue, but it's a very strange situation. There's a grain exporter, he comes in, he gives a prior customs declaration, tax returns, and the baby says it's a "black" grain, there's no payment on it, please stop it. And then there's magic -- someone's stopped and someone's not. And when we ask tax collectors, especially the head of the U.S., the duty of Odessa Customs, and how it happens that some firms are going and others are not going and there's information about the wrong material benefit, we get the answer that they don't understand what the problem is and what the propaganda is, and we don't have to ask the customs, because they have low wages, and they were on vacation. So I'll be honest with you, we talk a lot about money in the army, and all of that, they steal $10 billion a month suddenly, dumb enough and confident enough that they won't have anything to do with it. So if we're going to do something for the economy, one of the best decisions is to get the customs system in line with the BEB. You're going to have a completely different budget situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. I'm asking the MPs to invite us to the hall, so let's move on to the decision-making process. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine on the establishment of temporary features for the determination of the customs value of goods exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine (Registration No. 8274) Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:32:50]] For 262 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Next Bill 7029. This is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to simplify the management of apartment buildings. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[15:33:22]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, shall we vote now? [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, there is. Okay. Then two in a row, two in a row. Please give the word to Nikita Marina Victorian, faction of the political party "Serve of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u181	Please pass the word to Dmitri Nalotov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u182	Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich Nalotov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u183	Good afternoon! Some 13 million Ukrainians left their homes. For the time being, those who remain need to make decisions about repairs and restoration, participation in support and energy-generating programs, to go through the most difficult period in Ukraine’s history. The law governing multi - apartment buildings provides for the mandatory personal participation of the coowner, the sending of paper letters, and the voting through a written survey. I don't know if everyone in this room has faced the approval of decisions in apartment buildings, but I have a personal experience of creating OSBB in my house. And I can say that it's not just when people are at home, it's almost impossible for people to make decisions in the absence of people. Most of Ukraine’s OSB and multi-house management regulations directly prescribe mandatory forms of paper and direct citizen participation. The proposed changes greatly simplify the decision - making process, allowing coowners to report through e - mail and other telecommunications devices, by written consent, to hold meetings remotely, and to make decisions online, to vote in mixed mode, not solely on a personal basis. Both colleagues from this Hall and representatives from Mincifra, Minsk, MINREGION, and the Office of Reform Support to the MINREGION, as well as representatives of the U.S. and regional OSB communities and administrators, joined in writing the bill. Please support Bill 7029 in the first reading to limit the ability of people even in war to decide the fate of their homes and to deal with an extremely difficult season for all of Ukraine. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u184	Please, Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u185	Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland faction, Ukrainian Housing Owners' Association. First of all, I want to thank the faction that I have been given the opportunity to express a personal point of view and I urge everyone to decide when to vote, because the bill is not simple. I agree with the authors that, in fact, it is extremely necessary, and at this time to simplify the decision-making process and the decision-making process for the creation or other decisions on OSBB. But I'm asking a simple question: how could the 20 authors have been forced into this bill by such a noise that they would have to clean up on second reading, by the crippled iron, if you'll excuse me, by burning? How could such corrupt standards be put into place to put such a bill at risk? Let's move on. Friends, yes, not on this bill, because I will personally vote for it, not on this bill, not on it. One day, I think I'm going to write a quick manual on how definitely we can't do reform on an example of a sad tragedy called the reform of the HKG. The way it was done in the 15th year by weak translator linguists who totally didn't understand the problem and in this situation, these reforms, they discredited it today. Without financial support from the State, without "warm loans", the issue of land that has not been resolved today, without a state support programme, a state energy efficiency programme will not take off. You have cursed the inhabitants and the inhabitants of the land. And so by voting for this bill in the first reading, we guarantee that we will force you to solve all of these problems for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u186	Please, National Deputy Velitchovich Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u187	Please pass the word to Maxim Savrasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u188	Please, Maxim Saurasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u189	I would like to support previous speakers and say that, on the one hand, this law is progressive and helps solve many of the problems of OSB in relation to remote voting in the congregations, but on the other hand, as much as there are standards that conflict with common sense, they need to be redrafted to read another. We will support it because today it is a progressive step. But standards, like 50 percent of voters, are destructive. Such standards will need to be adjusted to the second reading. Thank you. We support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, and we are moving on to making a decision. Ready to vote? Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws to simplify the management of multi-room buildings (registration number 7029) in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:40:08]] For 244 Decision taken. Next Bill 7283. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and other Ukrainian legislation on local self-government. I would like to suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:40:44]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, no discussion. A committee to hear? Let's have a committee and not discuss it, we can do it then. Arthur, the committee and no discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, you do. Come on. The word is given to the deputy head of the committee, the head of the subcommittee. Oh, I'm sorry. I've just made it short. We've just voted short. Vote, yes. I'm sorry. I invite you to speak to the deputy head of the committee, the head of the committee's subcommittee on the organization of government, local self-government, regional development, and the construction of Aline Leonidovna Zagorujko. Please, Alina Leonidina.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u191	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will literally say a few words from the author of this bill. Our colleague, Mrs. Larissa Bilozer, was the first to sign the bill. At the same time, there are nine members of our committee. What is good, and what is the positive effect of the bill? First of all, it's the statute of the territorial communities. If this bill is adopted, the statutes will become mandatory and have clear meaning. Community residents will receive a wide range of public participation tools directly within their communities. In addition, internally displaced persons who have changed their electoral address to their actual residence address will be granted the right to participate in the community’s life. There will also be guarantees for young people’s participation in local issues. The bill also provides for a procedure for reporting to the head of the community and members of the council. It is detailed and will be implemented once a year at an open meeting. Consider, too, the conclusion of the GNEU. It says that the new draft law deserves a positive assessment, as it will contribute to Ukraine’s fulfilment of its obligations under the additional protocol of the European Charter of Local Self - Government. The committee, in turn, has considered the bill in its entirety, taking into account the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, recommends that the bill be adopted in the first reading and accepted as a basis. In the plans for the second reading, we already have the goal of redesigning it, making certain public participation procedures more divisive. So, colleagues, we ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two for, two for, no, please sign up for factions and groups. The word is given to the national deputy of Aleksiychuk Alexandre Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u193	Thank you, Mr. Head. The committee had actually processed the bill with this norm and had taken every standard into account. Asking you to support and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u194	Thank you. Please continue with Pavel Rostislav Mikolaiovich. I understand that, Honcharenko Alexeiyyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u195	Alexei Honcharenko "European Solidarity". Dear friends, people, this is a cornerstone, we absolutely need to maintain it forever, so any initiative in this direction we support and support, and we will vote in favour of this law. But it's very important that we create real tools that will work, not just nominal things. Because look, for example, at the Institute of Petitions, which is very good, which is very good, and people sign up on the President's website. But what happens next? I was the initiator of a petition where the President’s name was to consider a bill restricting the influence of the Russian Orthodox Church on Ukraine. This bill, it is, 8347, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In record terms, 25,000 signatures went to the President. What? And nothing, we're still not looking at it. Some other bill is being drafted, and the fifth column of the Faesbeest GDR continues to work in the form of a church. We've registered, I've registered, a petition on the President's website to support the decision to remove "Russian peace" from the Ukrainian Parliament. The OPCW – away from the Ukrainian Parliament – should not be here, and this is a requirement of Ukrainian society. In record terms of 12 hours, this petition won 25,000 votes. What? And nothing. It went to the President, the President sent it to the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council is hesitant, it's looking at something, and there's still no result. So, friends, democracy is not just words, it's not just tools, it's also implementation. Let's finally do, let's clear the Ukrainian Parliament of the Fifth Column, take away the influence of a church that is not a church, it's a cell of the FSB. This is going to be a real democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u196	Please give Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich, the "Platform for Life and Peace" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u197	I'd like to point out what to say and do is a little bit different. In order for everyone to understand if there's data from someone who has a fifth column, the FSB, everything else, takes a pen and a sheet, and it's written in law enforcement. If he didn't write, he was an accomplice. It's as simple as math. About the bill. Do you need a bill? I guess so. But do you remember when we had a report on the AIDS and SAP? Here they went to the rostrum, told about their achievements, and the national deputies listened and finished, and decisions were not made, including in this bill. I'm asking the authors, and I'm asking if you really want to help with the reports, you have to do it after reporting to whom they're reporting to make the right decisions: get out of office, find the reports unsatisfying. Then there will only be a result, as the previous speaker, not a word, but a work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, we have concluded a discussion of this important bill. I'm asking you to take your seats. Let's move on to making a decision. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and other Ukrainian legislation on local self-government (registration No. 7283). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:48:45.]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have three bills left in the second reading, where there are very few or no amendments at all. So I'm going to ask you not to leave the hall, because I think we're going to get through them quickly. Dear colleagues, Bill 6464. This is a draft law amending some legislation to strengthen the protection of intellectual property rights. We agreed for three minutes, Nina Petrovna, and after that. What about Santa Claus instead of Nina Petrovna? Three. Mikola Knieżicki is 3 minutes, and after that, we vote, honourable colleagues. Please don't go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u199	Thank you. Colleagues, in principle, are a good law. But my revisions 12, 41, 45, 50 and 54 refer to the same thing. It is a matter of paying compensation for infringements of intellectual property rights in respect of various intellectual property objects. I would like to remind you that as of January 1, this year, a new Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights was adopted by the Supreme Council in December 2022. My amendments were intended to harmonize the law with the existing Copyright Act. This would not create a conflict of enforcement in the future and improve the text of the bill that we are considering. On the other hand, it seems strange that the Supreme Council, over a period of a little more than a month, adopts legislation that regulates the same issue differently. So I don't even know if I should put these amendments to the vote. Well, well, Mr. Head doesn't want us to, we're going to have two laws with exactly the opposite rules and we're going to have a conflict. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's proceed to the vote, please take your seats. Dear friends, I propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of intellectual property rights (registration number 6464). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:51:32]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's do it again. Yes, I'm proposing that this Bill 6464 be re-readed. People's deputies, please vote. [[15:52:11]] For 247 Decision taken. The next two bills, we agreed, no one's making any amendments, so we're voting right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no, no, no, no, 6478 and 4366. Which one are you going to put it on? Julia, I'm sorry, we had factions and groups, and we agreed that this bill would only be amended by the Fatherlands, but it did not change. Julia, your representative, the head of the faction was. There was, I'm sorry, there was. So, with your permission, I am what the Conciliation Council has decided. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then give the Voice one second to figure out the amendments, and we'll vote. Let's do it, because the water in the sewers is waiting. Can we vote? Okay. Then I announce a review of 6478: the draft Water Management Act of the Human Settlements. One amendment from Julia Klimenko. Please, Julia, the number of the amendment and then what you're suggesting,
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u201	Colleagues, the law is good, it's beautiful, it's Euro-Integrated. I actually have 14 unacceptable licenses, but I see this kind of excitement, the experience in the sewage hall, so I'm going to set up a number 252. It says that the law is beautiful, but it must be done. That's why my amendment was aimed at developing a program, developing and approving the State's targeted programme of technical upgrading of water and sewage companies in state and municipal ownership within a three-month period. Colleagues, otherwise this law won't work, it's a set of declarant phrases. So I ask you to put this bill into account, it's been rejected, and I vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2023-01-12-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 252 amendments to the National Deputy Julia Klimenko She's been rejected by the committee. Julia suggests that we consider this amendment. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[15:55:05]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I now propose to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law on the Watering of Confluent Waters of Populations (registration number 6478). Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:55:44]] For 230 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, and the final bill to date is the bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for payment services) (registration number 4366). I immediately propose to adopt draft Law No. 4366 in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[15:56:25]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today has been completed. Thank you all for your effective work. I now announce a recess in our plenary session. The time and location of the next one will be reported. Please do not spread any information about its beginning. We're still working to win. And the glory of Ukraine!
